ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 2 August.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) (Senator Airola's voting device malfunctions.) I call on the House's assistants to verify the functioning of Senator Airola's card. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] On August 4, 1974, at 1:00 in the morning, near the station of San Benedetto Val di Sambro, a high potential device exploded in the fifth car of the 1486 Italicus express train, headed for Munich. The explosion caused the death of twelve people and the injury of another fifty. The image of the car torn apart by the bomb recalls one of the darkest moments of the period of terrorism and massacres, which represented a very hard challenge to the republican institutions and to the civil coexistence of our country. Italy has managed to overcome those difficult trials, relying on the democratic sentiments of the nation and on the strength of constitutional principles. However, many of those episodes are still obscure and require us all to continue our commitment to the search for truth, a duty we have towards those who have lost their lives in those tragic events and future generations. In memory of the victims, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1582, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general debate began. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u10	Mr President, the measure under consideration takes a further step towards what is a more comprehensive project that characterizes the action of this Government. I do not need to remind my colleagues that we are strongly engaged in the debate these days on a draft reform of the Constitution, in particular of equal bicameralism. Today, with the measure under discussion, we add another piece that aims to reform public administration. The two measures must be read in the same logic of modernization, within the framework of an overall project of reform of our country. [[Brusio.]] I would kindly ask colleagues behind my back to lower their voices. I want to say first of all that without bureaucracy - a term that today has a negative connotation - there is actually no chance of having an efficient system and a modern state. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u11	Colleagues, please, we started the discussion. COCIANCICH (PD). bureaucracy is the first major resource of a country, the true strategic resource of a state. It is the body of officials and executives that can implement the administrative and executive policies: for this reason it must be respected and must regain dignity and confidence in its role for the development of the country. The great democracies and modern states, beginning with France, have invested significantly, constituting high-ranking schools from which the highest-ranking officials of a country are taken. Our task, therefore, is not today to contribute to throw discredit and distrust on three million civil servants, who instead constitute for us the horizon of a rebirth of the country. However, we need to transform this reorganisation of public administration and to ensure that it is no longer a burden for businesses and citizens today, but rather that it becomes that aid and that they fly to the development of which we need so much. Today, bureaucracy is actually perceived as an additional burden - and in some cases represents it - even indirect, to taxation, which already reaches record levels in our country. Indeed, the requirements required of companies to be able to fulfil and comply with the requirements of the legislation are so heavy and byzantine that additional resources are needed for companies to be able to bear this bureaucratic burden. In fact, today, those who want to adjust to bureaucratic burdens suffer a competitive disadvantage compared to those who are looking for shortcuts. As a result, discredit towards the public administration is growing. On the other hand, public administration needs to give itself this challenge to regenerate itself to regenerate the country. This implies a renewal of ideas, a simplification of procedures, a better management of resources, a valorisation of skills but also a generational replacement, therefore the ability to use digital technologies more consciously and efficiently. A significant part of the bill we are debating today is precisely the more efficient use of digital technologies, for which progress has already been made in the field of justice, one of those who is blamed for the greater responsibility for the delay in investment in our country. If there are no investments by foreign companies and companies in Italy today, this does not depend on the cost of labour but on the delays of the public administration and, in particular, on the delays affecting the times of justice, the possibility to obtain legal certainty in a short time, to recover credits that become increasingly inexpensible: an additional cost that companies are no longer willing to bear. Therefore, this recovery of a sense of lost prestige, the awareness that officials and managers are at the service of the State, the community and the individual citizens also passes through a form of self-limitation of those today conceived as places of privilege, all the more unacceptable because today the dimension of risk, precariousness, the fatigue of daily living are the characteristic sign of the life of the vast majority of our fellow citizens. As a result, what were once the protections and guarantees of civil servants today are perceived as a place of privilege no longer at the service of the community, but as a sort of protected oasis where there is no risk, there is an automatic career, there is no possibility of being transferred to different functions where there is no longer the need to use resources for functions that fail. This measure therefore intervenes by laying down certain principles. First of all, a principle of internal mobility, the possibility of being relocated to other administrations, mobility between participating companies between public administrations, the possibility of applying for a lower qualification for redundant staff, where the previously held qualification no longer justifies the position. In addition, with a view to making the most of internal resources, a brake is also placed on the allocation of external advisory posts, which are prohibited when for consideration and allowed when free of charge, even if only for one year. I believe that this will encourage the public authorities to seek new resources within themselves and to enhance and increase their internal competences. There is a particularly difficult subject - if I may say so, Mr President - which concerns the remuneration of managers and officials. There has been a great deal of controversy about this, even in recent days and weeks, because important study centres have highlighted how today public administration is essentially characterized by a pyramid with an acute, very subtle summit, with very high wages, especially compared to those of its colleagues from other Member States of the European Union. For example, if we refer to a country such as the United Kingdom which certainly enjoys a public administration (flexible servants), we notice a pay difference that seems absolutely disproportionate. I would like to mention a few examples. The ministries of health and economic development in Italy have, respectively, 125 and 165 second-class managers earning on average 110,000 euros, that is as much as the 17 first-class managers of the British Ministry of Economics; 300 top executives of Regions and Provinces earn 150,000 euros, that is as one of the four directors-general of the Ministry of Economics and the head of cabinet of the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the field of diplomatic career the average salary is almost 200,000 euros for the nearly 900 diplomats and is absolutely disproportionate compared to what their foreign colleagues earn. I do not want to make a long list of these comparisons, but it is clear that today we have summits that appear to be over-paid and often the remuneration is not linked to the achievement of concrete and specific results either by the individual official or by the public administration as a whole. Just as today the political class is self-forming itself, accepting a reduction in its powers, functions and also its remuneration, I believe that the re-acquirement of prestige and the ability to acquire prestige in the eyes of our fellow citizens pass also through a gesture of greater solidarity and sharing within the public administration of economic resources. For this reason, on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, I am voting in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u12	[[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u14	Mr President, I believe that the interpreter must first point out the clear and clear profiles of unconstitutionality of the decree-law which this morning is being examined for conversion. The first, in truth, is very clear, considering that the decree-law in matters deals with matters relating to public employment, the organisation of public administration, the simplification of citizens and businesses to public administration services, measures of incentive and transparency in public works procedures and the execution of works as regards the Expo (which appears from time to time in various legal measures in a disarticulated, uneven, fractional manner, resulting in the confusion that we who are political operators cannot understand). It is clear that it is much more complex for the common citizen to understand this unjustified fragmentation. There is no doubt that there is a lack of uniformity in matters affecting the constitutional profile enshrined in Article 77 of the Constitutional Charter but, more specifically, in Law No 400 of 23 August 1988 which states that the decrees-laws: They must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title of the product. For this verse and for the unevenness of the provision to our examination can only conclude that the provision is spoiled and that it presents obvious profiles of unconstitutionality. Then there is the problem posed by Article 81 of the Constitution. The office of the Quirinale (I would not dare to speak of the President of the Republic), which operates the control of constitutional legitimacy on the provisions of law to the signature of the President, in the case of decree-laws, for the approval and therefore the subsequent transmission to the Chambers or, in the case of laws, for the promulgation, has always been punctually attentive to highlight and to retain legal provisions for the examination of the profiles of constitutionality. Well, with regard to this Government (I would speak more of Government than of provision) it seems to me that the so strict attentions of the past are completely blurred, degraded and almost cancelled because the decree, which came to us without financial coverage, passed before the scrutiny of the House. At this point, I have some doubts as to whether we should double-check the legal provisions of a bicameral system compared to that of the monocameral system that we fired yesterday. I have some concerns about this: a mistake of the House that lets a provision pass without cover, in clear and evident unconstitutionality. Before the House, this decree was signed by the President of the Republic and then passed to the scrutiny of the offices of the Quirinale, which also did not highlight and note the unconstitutionality and lack of coverage. I have focused on the decree, not on fixing it, but because I believe that we legislators, when it comes to magistrates, always have to make derogations. For all citizens, rules apply, different rules apply to judges. This is because as soon as we mention a reform that, in some way, can affect all the audience of civil servants, intervenes the National Association of Judges and Governments all, to the truth, slow down and operate those derogations that have not been lacking in this measure too. What most fascinates me and has aroused my attention is the prohibition of detention in service provided for all employees of the public administration. But not for the magistrates until 2015. Why, when an apical place of the judiciary becomes vacant, does the Supreme Council of the judiciary not, in the immediacy of time, assign that post to the magistrate who has competed with it? It does not provide for this immediacy because, at the basis of this assignment of the apical roles of the judiciary, there must be a series of agreements and agreements between political currents within the judiciary, which then determine the vacation of that place; then, they decide for the detention in service. Why do we not have the courage to say (before that place becomes vacant) that, when it is known that a particular chief prosecutor will retire, we do not ban the competition and we assign the place in the immediacy of the resolution of the public employment report of the chief prosecutor to another figure who goes to assume the functions? Then there is another issue that has been dealt with improvisedly, but here everything is temporary. I'm a modest technician who didn't understand anything by reading about the famous and long-standing issue of the 96 quota, which the government wanted to resolve. I did not understand anything about how they dealt with this issue; I did not understand anything and the citizen will understand nothing about it. The measure is confused and the Government, at the last moment, in the Commission, had the rapporteurs make four amendments that canceled all that part that was piercing from the point of view of economic coverage, thinking that it had so fixed this disaster. In the end, a confused measure came out that has a set of rules that are not homogeneous with each other. The aim that the Government had set itself with this provision is decidedly blurred. In other words, this measure does not go in the direction of transparency of public administration; it creates unequal treatment between magistrates, primary hospitals and other state officials; it does not simplify the access of citizens and businesses to public administration services. It is yet another and final commercial of this summer start. As far as I am concerned, but - I believe - the Group of Forza Italia will also vote in favour of the adoption of this bill for the conversion of the decree-law to our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always felt and continue to believe that there are wonderful, prepared and honest colleagues in this House. However, from a political point of view, I must make a small reflection because honesty and preparation, in this case, do not combine with respect, from a political point of view, for others who think differently. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to make a citizen or a young colleague understand that this behaviour carried out by the majority reflects a behaviour of political correctness. In fact, you can't understand how you make a backhand and no one within the majority takes a position to say: excuse me, but if we promised from other things, why are we doing the opposite today? I am referring to the last reflection you have made on the issue of pensions. This is a small detail, but there is a much greater detail, which is the political behavior of correctness that some of you have repeatedly recalled when Governments other than yours used that confidence mechanism that you today, with much tranquility and serenity, applied. It is recommended by President Renzi and, without a breath, you are well prepared to apply this confidence mechanism, as to say that none of us can speak, discuss and give suggestions. So my question, ladies and gentlemen (I respect you very much), is this: from a political point of view, is it correct what you are doing? From a political point of view, does that correspond to what you, in past years, shouted at the scandal when Governments other than yours were allowed to put the vote of confidence and you, scandalized, pointed to those who were on the other side (i.e. on the benches, on the other side of your barricade) as politically incorrect people? Yet, these people who were shouting at the scandal yesterday I see them sitting in the PD benches today. So, dear friends, I have the utmost respect for you, how can you support the vote with confidence and without scandalizing you? Why two or three years ago, when there was a government other than yours, were you all scandalized by the vote of confidence, counted the numbers and made statements outside and in the various newspapers talking about the wrong behavior of a majority that does not respect Parliament? I say this to those who stand up today to give us lessons of good political behaviour, to know whether what they said then corresponded to reality or not, whether they were then in good faith or are today. I would like to call on these Members to indicate whether this behaviour is incorrect or incorrect. Dear friends, with the utmost respect for you, with the tranquility and serenity that we should all have in this House, and with the utmost respect to Senator Zanda, who is the Head of the PD Group, I ask him whether he thinks it is right to approve a constitutional reform with the opposition forces outside, on the Aventine? If this had happened to another government, such as an executive led by Berlusconi or others, you would have said what was worse than a political opponent. Today it is useless to enter into the substance of the debate, because we already know that everything we are going to say or that we want to say is meaningless, because the Government has already chosen to put the question of trust and you, consenting, have said yes without rebelling and this is a matter of great political misconduct.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u17	Mr President, this bill is full of lights and grave shadows. Madam Minister Madia, the measure on the agenda, like many others, with your constant and diutary recourse to trust, creates an impediment to us and also to me, who generally tend to find solutions and positions shared, and obliges us to intervene in the debate only for a testimony, in order to be able to say tomorrow: I was right. This is, however, a rather unsatisfactory situation, because the philosophy of the measure, especially with regard to generational replacement, particularly when applied to the private sector, would be completely wrong. The generational replacement, in fact, is not achieved through forceful retirement and the introduction of people who will never be able to compensate for the deficiency that comes to be determined by the exit of those who go into early retirement, lacking, at least, the same competence and experience. I see that there is a minimum recovery of the turnover block in the measure. Then, if a recovery had to be made, it was enough to stagger the generational replacement with a gradual recovery of the turnover. In this way you would have resolved, from the point of view of what is a situation that has gone away and enlarged. Let me give you an example: there were 53,000 employees in the world of justice. Do you know how many today? 37,000, as a result of turnover blocks. At the same time, you tell me that we need to make administrations efficient. But efficiency cannot come from nothing, from the will to run, because the will to run is determining a series of mistakes that we must first suffer, with a confidence in the House or the Senate and then, the next day, see that these measures are modified by the same Government that placed the other trust in the other House. We have seen it with the competitiveness decree and we see it today with the decree on public administration. This increases the distrust of citizens in their relations with the State. When the 4,000 teachers see approved by the House with a vote of confidence a different discipline believe that finally the State thinks of remedying an injustice achieved by the Fornero law and therefore believe in the Government's ability to evaluate all aspects before putting trust, and in this regard I have seized the discomfort of the rapporteur in trying to give justifications. You see, I don't claim that if there's no cover, you have to keep the norm, and I agree that it's been eliminated. The problem, however, is not whether or not to remove it now. The problem is that the government has placed trust in the House without having certain cover. He led an arm wrestling with the Ministry of Economics and Finance without having the ability to understand an aspect related to the matter of trust. I do not say this as a senator or parliamentarians, because I remember that even when I was a mere magistrate I believed (and I am still convinced) that when the government puts the trust it has already carried out all the necessary checks so that that rule can be voted with tranquility. And how do I have to reason with regard to the benefits for the victims of terrorism? To preserve those benefits, it was also enough to stagger that generational shift in the judiciary. You know better than I do what pensions are and what liquidations are. Scaglionare would have made sure that the victims of terrorism did not suffer the loss of this additional piece of civilization. I think that we should all guarantee to those who are victims of terrorism the possibility of obtaining benefits from the sacrifice they have made in the interests of the community and the State. Finally, I do not make a corporate speech, but I tell you that this Senate has engaged in a long battle to apply the ten-year rule for the out-of-role placement of magistrates. Then the rule was partly changed and applied incorrectly by the Government itself. We, on the other hand, now check an incongruity with regard to the generational replacement in the judiciary. How does it support the generational shift with a simultaneous retirement of about 500 magistrates? That would mean clearing the judicial offices! I do not agree with the date of 70 years of retirement, although with the new models of access to the judiciary, it will be very difficult for some to reach the fortieth year of service. But taking advantage of this. I am asking you how it is possible to imagine that they are all placed at rest at the same time and that the rule is still applied. Madam Minister, you wrote, and well, a rule that in 1979 I had identified as a circular of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This circular stipulated that the posts should be published six months before and covered before the magistrate's retirement. You have translated it into a rule with terms, and this is perfect: I give you the consent, hoping that finally the necessary administrative activity that precedes the appointment will be carried out and that it arrives before the expiration. But it is not possible to apply it in relation to 400 contemporary deadlines, and if you had planned a staggering in four years, without prejudice to the principle to which you referred over the seventy years, in the next four to five years, it would have had the effect first of all of having the opportunity to recover some of the expenses and dedicate them to the victims of terrorism. Secondly, it could have ensured, through that staggering, the application of the rule that you wanted to be provided for immediately before leaving the magistrate who must be put at rest, and therefore the possibility of intervention. Thirdly, there would have been a greater chance of replacement. For access to the judiciary you have also returned to introduce the internships at the judicial offices and today you do so by placing the trust. We have changed this aspect twice in the Senate in this legislature, because that of internships is a limited number. In so doing, you create a difference of treatment between those who participate in the competition in the judiciary. One of the great rules that existed in the Republic's legal system was to guarantee equal access to competitions, and while we had delays - you are young - until the end of the 1970s, however, we had in all administrations an annual competition that guaranteed that replacement to which you refer with a coherent selection, ensuring to all the same guarantees of freedom of access. Here a contextual exit is introduced which is wrong from the point of view of the functionality of the offices, when it should be envisaged a graduality in four to five years, in this sense accepting its principle, Madam Minister. I repeat: make a correction with a next measure: split that number of magistrates to correctly apply the rule, which you yourself put, according to which the Board of Governors must actually appoint before the departure of a magistrate another magistrate who replaces him. That's what we're relying on. We have no other choice; even if I vote against it, I have to trust in its intelligence, in its ability to assess the negative effects of this passage in order to remedy it with a new measure. So much the race you're getting used to has also accustomed us to see measures that are changed from evening to morning in the passage between Chamber and Senate. [[Applause from Senators Marin and Alberti Casellati. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u18	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u19	Mr President, this debate has revealed some merit assessments and many political considerations which have focused on the most questionable points of the measure and which have not shown any positive evidence of some of the choices made by this decree-law. One issue that is certainly very important is that of the National Anti-corruption Authority and that of the definitive discipline of its powers, with the abolition of the Authority for the supervision of public contracts, whose powers and functions are transferred to the DAC. The unification of these two authorities introduces a principle that I believe is very important. When the subject is prevention and repression of corruptive facts in the field of public administration activity and also in the field of public administration contractual activity, it is clear that a single authority with the possibility to control and supervise this action, from the moment of the formation of the contractual relationship at the time of the conclusion of the work, has a much more comprehensive and much more organic spectrum of analysis, so it is possible that the action can be not only formal (the control of legitimacy), but also substantial, identifying those opportunities of initiative that can effectively repress the corruptive fact where there is, also at its birth. Instead, a division of these functions between different agencies creates that condition for which the right does not know what the left does and therefore creates inefficiency in fact, even when legislative solutions could be positive solutions. But there is also the rationalization of the independent authorities, which I believe is another very important and very significant choice. I take another issue which seems to me to be significant in this decree and which I believe has also been taken up in some speeches. There are choices on the part of the public service that, although they should be developed, are nevertheless significant and very important. In the area of justice, the introduction of the trial office is certainly a very important principle in relation to rationalising the justice system. It is, precisely in the logic to which I referred yesterday of the centrality of the issue of the short-term justice with respect to the overall reform of justice, a very important and very significant step forward. The magistrate must have a staff of collaborators, as happens under the other front in the law firm, so that he can have collaboration in the education of the practices and therefore be in a position to give sure solutions in fast times. I also come to the most sensitive issues, such as the abolition of the school rule, the abolition of the law on compensation for victims of terrorism and the rule on penalties. It has been said in this House that political choices have been made. I believe, however, that from this point of view there is no proof, in the sense that either it is shown that the General Accounting Office of the State has overcame the lack of coverage to please the Government, or this argument does not take. This argument simply fits in with what is a legitimate political polemic, but which seems very inappropriate to me in relation to these issues. I hope from this point of view that the commitment made by President Renzi to resolve the problem quickly (of which I have no reason to doubt) will become a concrete rule, so that this parenthesis is closed. It, moreover, raises a question on which I do not return, and it is the relationship between the technical structure of the economy and the political choices of government. I am simplifying it in these terms. I would like to understand, precisely because I believe that technical support cannot invade the field of political choices - and this is an issue that has been used in several interventions - whether the exception of lack of coverage is due to the actual lack of the necessary money or whether it is due to a choice by the Accounting Office to maintain that provided according to wider choices related to the law of stability. If this were the choice of Accounting, it could only be, in my view, deeply stigmatized, because it is the Government that decides when and how to spend in the context of the supplies available. It cannot be the technical body that decides when that money is spent and when it is available for political choices, because in this second case it is the technical body that makes politics and not the political body. I believe that this is a subject which, more than ever, must also be taken up and emphasized in the logic of the consideration I made yesterday in the matter of millennials. Millegiante does not mean omnibus decree, but means, specifically, that we are faced with a decree that, for themes, develops a series of choices aimed at solving that problem. In terms of simplification, there are choices in that sense. It is an enormous issue with regard to the possibility of the policy to fully control the coherence of the rules with the basic choices, precisely because, in this respect too, there is an excessive tendency to interfere with the ministerial bureaucracy, which is one of the central themes of politics: the relationship between politics and ministerial structures. Each one does his job. This is absolutely important and decisive. The separation between politics and technology, a principle that has been established in our system not for many years, must be consolidated and brought back to the clarity of the original choices, because the responsibilities must be clear on one front and on another: politics competes with the choices, the technique is responsible for giving the technical contributions so that these choices can be made. It is not the responsibility of the latter to overlap with politics, to prevent choices or to bring choices to have different effects from those which policy wants. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u20	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank the entire Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, President Finocchiaro, the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, the officials, but also the groups, both in majority and in opposition, because I am not unaware that you have all allowed a less in-depth debate than what we have done in the House of Deputies, to ensure the timing of a decree. And for that, senators, thank you. I would also like to thank - and it is my sincere thanks - all the people who have been working with me for months, day and night. (at 10.29 a.m.) (MADIA, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration). I thank Undersecretary Rughetti, who is here. I thank them because we in this Government care a lot about the reform of public administration, because we have an objective that must be shared by all of us, that is to get out of the decadent representation that today overwhelms our public administration and that also overwhelms the good that there is today in the professionalism of public administration. Precisely for this reason, in search of a lost harmony with citizens and civil servants, we started this reform of the public administration with a huge, huge public consultation. We have received more than 40,000 e-mails, which we have read, with suggestions from citizens and civil servants, to whom we asked - first of all to them - what they thought, what their ideas and opinions were about what would have been the interventions that we would then have liked to incorporate into the various regulatory measures. We have listened to those suggestions and we have begun with this decree, which is the first legislative provision of this reform of the public administration. Why did we start with a decree-law? Because we think it is urgent that the first results of this reform arrive immediately - with necessity and urgency, this is the sense of a decree-law - in the real life of citizens. That's why we started with a decree-law. It is an important decree-law, which contains many important norms, all of which bear the sign of change, fairness and renewal. When I talk about change, I think, for example, of all the important rules by which we now give powers to the anti-corruption authority, chaired by President Cantone. When I talk about change, I am thinking of the rules that - I am sure - will finally allow us to unblock the long-standing issue of mobility that does not work and that does not allow - I am addressing Senator Ichino - to solve, for example, the shortage of staff in the judicial offices that still paralyse the work of entire chancellors every day. When I think about change, I also think, for example, about the rules on internships in judicial offices. However, I have also spoken of standards in the name of fairness. Here I recall the intervention of Senator Cociancich and in this regard allow me to reaffirm with force and determination the importance of all the transversal norms to this decree, which intervene on the compensations charged to the public finances. Finally, I spoke of renewal. We, in fact, in the rules of this decree, begin to reverse a tendency, we begin to give hope to the generations that have been betrayed for too long. The conditions have not been created, for several reasons, for an intervention on quota 96. Yesterday, the President-in-Office of the Council said that by the end of August there will be a structural intervention on the school, which will address the issue of teachers' income in the school and the issue of teachers' precariousness; therefore, the issue of school renewal will be addressed. However, on this point of major debate in these hours, let me make a point that I think is important, even after the intervention of Senator Falanga: let us not bother the Quirinale and the Head of State. In fact, I take the opportunity to thank him and his entire structure for the dedicated, passionate and scrupulous work of defending our Constitution. The signature of the Head of State, of course, was made on the decree issued by the Council of Ministers, while the debate and remarks of the Ministry of Economics and Finance in these hours concern the rules included in a normal, normal, parliamentary and democratic dialectic; but there is no backwardness of the Government and, of course, no problem with the signature by the Head of State, which was prior to the discussion that took place in the Chamber of Deputies. As I said, the decree is only the first piece, a piece with which we wanted to give citizens a signal that we know that change must come quickly. However, the real heart of public administration reform, the real reversal of the relationship between the citizen and the administration is the bill scheduled here in the Senate, on which I hope we can start as soon as possible a great, thorough and beautiful discussion. That bill marks - in my opinion - a change of paradigm because everything we want to approve in that bill we do starting from a consideration: it must not be the citizen to bend to the times, places and ways - sometimes cumbersome and complicated - of the administration, but he himself must be aware that receiving an administration service is for him a right and not a complication. This is the sign of that bill; this is the heart of the reform of the public administration and I am pleased, Senators, that from September, starting from this very branch of Parliament, will be able to begin the discussion of this important and fundamental part of the reform of the public administration. Let me conclude with something that I very much care about, namely the implementation of the reform. I see my colleague Mr Boschi here next to me who said a few days ago that we can agree on reforms or not. It's true. Then the reforms - and I hope also that of the public administration - are approved, but that is not the hardest part: the hardest part - and it has also been said in various speeches made by you in this House between yesterday and today - is the implementation of the reforms and I ask you to do a great exercise of democracy together. I call on you and on Parliament to urge us and ask us to implement every rule that we will approve. I am asking you, as always, to think of our citizens, who no longer deserve written rules and laws on a sheet of paper, who do not translate into concrete facts, but who deserve - I repeat, this is an exercise of democracy that we all have to do - the rules that are changing for their daily lives. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u22	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u23	MARTON (M5S). Olé! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, we're not at the stadium. Don't do the ola! Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment that I am going to present to the Presidency, which is entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1582, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 90 of 24 June 2014, which incorporates the amendments already approved by the House of Deputies and those proposed by the 1st Commission. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Olé! MORONESE (M5S). Congratulations!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u25	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, in compliance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. I suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 10.39 a.m. and resumed at 11.03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u26	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the bill of conversion of the decree-law in the field of public administration, with amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the debate on confidence, which will begin around 11.30 a.m., immediately after the opinion given by the Commission on the financial effects of the maxi amendment, one hour and ten minutes were allocated to the Groups. Explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 14 o'clock. The examination of the constitutional reform bill will resume at 4 p.m. The deadline for submitting agendas to the Senate's internal budget is set at 7 p.m. this evening. I suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.03 a.m. and resumed at 11.39 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u27	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u28	Madam President, the 5th Commission examined the trusted amendment and noted that the government did not include in it the rules that had been censored by us on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution. So for this part, that's fine. There's only one question I'd like to put to the government. We call for the deletion of Article 8 (3). In this way the text would remain alive. We had censored this deletion in the opinion given to the Commission and the House for debate, and we can only confirm our opinion here. For this reason, I repeat, we ask the Government for the deletion of Article 8 (3).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u29	Madam President, the Government takes note of the opinion of the Budget Committee and undertakes to accept the request made by Senator Azzollini. Moreover, this rule was already contained in the original version of the decree-law, but had then been amended during the examination by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u30	Madam President, as we wanted to demonstrate, the President-in-Office of the Council, through Minister Madia, is also asking the question of trust in Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. As I said last night, after 10:00 p.m., when twenty senators were seated on the Democratic Party's scrabbles (and that's why I like to remember it this morning, when there are about 25 of them), this is yet another measure on which the Renzi Government raises the question of trust. It seems to me that you no longer give this word the meaning it deserves. The noun "trust" comes from the Latin verb "fidere" and indicates that attitude, towards others or towards themselves, which results from a positive assessment of facts, circumstances, relationships, for which he trusts in others and his own possibilities, and which generally produces a feeling of security and tranquility. So a true feeling, certainly not the tranquility as Matteo Renzi means it, which one day to his friend Henry says "Stai sereno, Enrico" and the next day he accompanies him to the Quirinale to make him resign. But this, Minister Madia, is that normal? Is it normal to ask for confidence in all measures now? Last night, Mr Arrigoni said that, on average, every eight days the government of Matteo Renzi asks for confidence on the measures it has issued, as if trust is the only instrument to threaten oppositions or perhaps to silence them. But, dear President Renzi, you are making a big mistake; in our opinion, everything is wrong. Trust is not achieved by declarations alone, but it must be deserved by gestures and concrete facts. After all, it's as if your wife doesn't trust you by letting her be influenced by widespread malice on beautiful girls who revolve around you. Well, I'm sure you'll reassure your life mate not by words, but by gestures. Is that true, President? On the other hand, in the political sphere, you are able to ask, ask and ask. Just now Minister Madia said that this provision contains many cross-cutting and important norms, which give hope to generations. But what is the hope for young people? The hope of leaving abroad, why could they possibly find a job there? And then, I'm sorry Minister, but the phrase "we don't bother the Quirinal" what does that mean? Why doesn't it have to be uncomfortable? Perhaps it is not to be disturbed because the Quirinale is an accomplice in this beautiful anti-democratic dialectic staged by the majority? Or perhaps, Minister Madia, it is not to be disturbed because the President's indisposition is prolonging and so it is not appropriate to disturb him while he is on vacation? Dear colleagues, let's end this scene, lack of imagination, you have become boring with this usual tyritera: trust yes and trust yes. A short while ago Minister Boschi, while my Group was raising voices, while saying the words 'the Government raises the question of trust', let go of a sarcastic smile, perhaps neurotic, as if to say'so much we always win'. This may be true, given the numbers, but the government must ask itself a question: why do oppositions not trust us? Are we doing something wrong? I'm sure you're making a big mistake on the accounts. And I'm not just referring to the accounts you make about the financial cover (you haven't got one right so far), but I'm referring to the accounts you made about the votes in favour of this measure. I told you already last night: you can't expect the opposition to trust someone if then that someone is the same who ignores the voices outside the choir, which prevents a democratic debate and above all who knows how to ignore the contributions of minorities in contempt to all the constitutional rules in force, but who are not at all. I'm sorry to say this, but today more than ever, trusting is good, but not trusting is better. For us of the 5 Star Movement it is better to continue not to trust you, because you do not deserve our trust at all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u31	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister (I am here, Minister Madia, before you: good morning), trusting is good, as is often said, not trusting, however, is better. Lately it has often been heard in this House that lies in politics have short legs. Unfortunately, however, as we have seen, lies have been told, so much so that the umpteenth, hateful lie has accompanied the process of this decree-law. A solution has finally been found for the age-old issue of teachers quota 96. The President of the Budget Committee of the Boccia Chamber has declared the existence of the necessary cover. It is right to spend a little time repairing a wrong done for a technical error inherent in the Fornero reform. Indeed very beautiful words, but the result, able to arouse appreciation also from the oppositions (which among other things have contributed and struggled to achieve such a result), was not there. Nice words, then fly in the wind. Thousands of people - because, we repeat, there are about 4,000 school workers - have been deluded to see their right to retire recognized and many young people have believed that today they have a greater opportunity to stabilize thanks to the escape of others. An illusion that - it has to be admitted - the government has kept up a few hours, demonstrating in this a certain sensitivity: at least they have not become attached. A dwarf lie with very short legs. As the Minister has also asked us, we will make sure to stand with our breath on our necks, so that, in August, new maneuvers and new measures will be launched that will solve this vulnus - or chasm - for these 4,000 people. It was worse for VAT matches and pensioners, who had already begun to spend the future and infamous 80 euros: for them the deception lasted a little longer. It will be even worse, I fear, for all those who voted for PD to believe that a different leader would change the basically conservative nature of that party. President Renzi - it is said in the newspapers - said that it is right to remove a rule, the one on "quota 96," which has nothing to do with the public administration. It is pleased that the President is concerned that his decrees are respectful of the constitutional requirements: homogeneity of the subjects dealt with, necessity and urgency. However, it would be appropriate for President Renzi to reread his decrees and realize that in such minestrones, in such omnibus decrees, a safeguard for those who have received a wrong and cannot retire for a lightness committed by the Government of technicians can only represent a bit of salt in the dish; and salt is, in fact, optimism. I would like this optimism to be optimized in practice. President Renzi should then explain to us why the teacher's pension is not "congruent" - I use this word, which belongs to me - with the reform of the public administration, while the journalist's pension is, of course, without taking away from journalists: I think it is right to protect this category, but I also find it right to protect the teacher's category. And, if he has patience and a good heart, he could also tell us if he is respectful of us senators and the citizens we represent that the time devoted to the study and discussion of a decree-law corresponds to that of a weekend or to clippings of time granted by the crazy race for the approval of the reform of the Senate, a reform that appears in these days already approved, with a Senate reduced to counting nothing in the process of approval of the laws of the Government. In this way, trust is placed on this decree, which presents measures that can be shared and effective: sin only that those that can be shared tend not to be effective and those that are effective cannot be shared. How not to share, in fact, the intention to rejuvenate, through the turnover generation, one of the oldest public administrations in Europe by average age of staff. But moving in this direction, moving from intentions to facts, has a cost in terms of public money and it has been seen how soon the cover has been blown as soon as we have tried to pass a more incisive measure. So almost only the intention, the symbol and the message remains, as a very clear and unsympathetic message, is also what emerges from the measures on staff mobility and on the 50% reduction of union prerogatives, which seem to want to go in the direction of the re-publicization of work in the public employment sector, against the privatisation of such relations. Although I do not consider taboo the idea of reducing permits, expectations and postings for union workers, I wonder whether it is appropriate, at the same time as a reform on the working conditions of workers, to act by law on trade union prerogatives. By the way, and with this I conclude the short time available to me, many detachments are right in the school and, less than half, the most penalized will be once again the precarious ones, who will have at their disposal the least number of supplements: and I am glad that the President of the Council had said several times that it was necessary to start from school and from education. I therefore call on Renzi to give an answer in the coming months and days, the answer that has been removed from this measure with the amendment presented by the Government, in order to correct and find a positive path. [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u33	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to make a reasoning related to both the content of the provisions under consideration and to the general economic situation in the country, that is to say, how we are going to legislate and how the fundamental indices of our economy are at the same time. I say this because one of the reasons why we are facing the process of constitutional reform in these hours is that it would be useful to speed up the legislative process in order to make more adequate, even in time, the response that we must give to the economic and productive system, as well as to the entire Italian society. In the last three and a half years the legislation has been defined almost through decree-laws (about 80) on the most varied subjects, generally characterized, especially with the previous Government, by so-called omnibus legislation, that is, by a set of norms, also on various topics, that were included in the decree of urgency of initiative of the Government, so much so that we all deserved - but above all if the Government deserved it - a reminder from the Head of State that we shared then and that we also share today. Of these 80 decrees, 50 were approved by a vote of confidence and the average time of approval of all legislation in these months for each measure, which has never come to the examination alone but at the same time with others together with the additional functions exercised by Parliament, was a maximum of 80 days, considering overall within this period also the drafts of law and the laws of stability. It is clear, therefore, that the acceleration of the legislative process over the three and a half years should have (due to the faster assumption, improved response, improved timeliness to address the issues on the table) ensured an improvement in the economic and social parameters. And instead we have a sharp, progressive, systematic and unstoppable deterioration. And when I say that we have a sharp, progressive and unstoppable deterioration, I am referring, for example, to public debt. In 2011 the public debt was 120 percent, today we are moving towards 140 percent. We exceeded 132 percent during the financial year 2013 and progressively, in 2014, this figure is deteriorating. Tomorrow from ISTAT we expect a negative figure on the trend of GDP, which in 2011 was around 0.4 per cent and that today, after reaching the maximum negative of less 1.9% in 2013, it goes roughly close to zero if not to 0.1, below the zero of at least one decimal place, totally contradicting the government's forecast. On unemployment we have a figure that spatters over 13 percent while in 2011 it was at 8.4%. We are not talking about inflation, which has very low indices because there is a contraction in consumption, and we are not even talking about the deficit-GDP parameter, always close to 3% in an instrumental dance around systematically proven non-true GDP growth forecasts. We have another trust today. I think it's the sixteenth of the Renzi government... BOTTICI (M5S). It's the 18th, like the older age. URAS (Misto-SEL). It's 18? Even better. A trust that intervenes on a particularly significant regulatory body, which follows trust dates on issues of absolute importance: applies to all the decree on cultural heritage and tourism. We are continuing in this path that reduces the discussion on the solutions to be prepared to save the country from the crisis and despite these years the data systematically tell us that we have wrong, indeed, that you have wrong, continue on this path. Pursue the same behavior that translates - I would like to remind you - into an overall impoverishment of the country and a personal and family tragedy for hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Italian families, for millions of citizens. I wonder what it takes? What should we do to ensure that we do not continue to act in this way, with this restriction of the debate, and that we do not make any positive contributions to the definition of the rules? And then what do we think? Look at Italy dying of reforms! Everyone who comes wants to do their reform. Whoever makes the reformetta in one way, who in another, but the result is that he doesn't make a money because there is no more money in the crate and there is no more even if the coffers that we have available we rack one in the other. Today you also get a negative opinion, pursuant to Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, on the question of the deletion of paragraph 3 of Article 8 of this provision because you did not even know how to assess the impact in advance. Let's not talk about the retirement of school staff! We're not gonna be able to save ourselves like this. We need to be less presumptuous, we need to be less jealous of the management of power, we need this power to be a truly choral expression of the whole country. If you think it is enough to say one thing in the newspaper for that problem to be removed, for hundreds of thousands of jobs to be created; get it out of your head! Public administration will not work with this measure as it has not worked so far because the real problem is not addressed at the root! What does this country need? You do not have the truth in your pocket: they all have it, each one from his own point of view, each one from a territorial point of view. It is no coincidence that the North-South gap has become even more acute in recent months and years! Stop while we're in time, otherwise this country is destined for an inexorable decline. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u35	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u36	Mr President, members of the Government, all citizens who look at us from home, yet another confidence in yet another omnibus measure, but this time the title is very contained: it is only three lines. More than anything, with an incredible crescendo. We have already said how passing from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate we realize that part of the cover is not there. I wonder: There is a responsibility of the authoritative supervisory bodies, and so there will then be some measure, some censorship, or is it possible instead to understand what happened? A change of ideas, as I have heard, and therefore a political responsibility, or really an accounting error? Or there is also a third possibility, in my opinion the most truthful one: a political imposition, placing responsibility on the poor accountant who only through the media succeeds in rebelling against the politician. As a public employee this is something I have seen many times and, if so, you understand the moment we are living, the freedom that the civil servant has forced to serve the will of the powerful on duty to a life of hell. In this provision there are some rules on the Expo contained, specifically, in Articles 19, 33, 34 and 30. I did a quick search on the Senate website by putting the word "Expo" and searching in the period between 15 March 2013 and 31 July 2014. There are 198 amendments and agendas relating to Acts Nos 1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 8, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, These are 16 acts plus various motions. As far as government decrees are concerned, I wonder who is the genius who writes these things and who makes 16 measures for a public work of 1.3 billion. Do you know why this is happening? Because the method is wrong. If there were a real law on public procurement, there would be no need for a derogation. This is the key word and the first step towards corruptive phenomena, reducing controls, favoring friends of friends who must be controlled with authority for the interweaving of bureaucratic norms that, among other things, increase costs. A serious state makes a law that applies to all contracts [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; instead, you make a special law for each contract. On the contrary, we are not limited to one because, as we have seen in the case of the Expo, in a year there have been 16 measures that have created norms that contradict each other, incomprehensible and untranslatable in daily practice; then, however, you get angry if the judiciary is not able to apply them. All this is useless and harmful work and serves to demonstrate the ineffectiveness of Parliament and, in particular, of the Senate, while the government alone is responsible, which imposes urgent decrees that are not. Instead, the government must implement: there are more than 800 implementing regulations missing. Why not write those instead of wasting time with decrees that will then be corrected and recursed? Perhaps all this is used to increase the productivity mentioned in these discussions, which is considered insufficient. Therefore, instead of focusing on the quality of the measures, we focus on the quantity, on the skin of the Italians. I am sorry that colleagues who have spoken about productivity are not present; I would like to hear their views on the 16 measures of the Expo. I hope as a citizen that we understand that by proceeding in this way we will all go, as the song says, straight to the catastrophe, which for me, pathologist, can only be a moment of truly sadness because I see the catastrophe in people who do not arrive at the end of the month and take their lives. The pathologist unfortunately attends this kind of situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u38	Madam President, we are faced with yet another decree clearly lacking the prerequisites that the Constitution prescribes for the decrees themselves. This time the novelty lies in the fact that it is the same President of the Council who admitted it when he said that it is okay to remove the rule concerning pensions in the school sector because it was not congruent with the other rules. It is clear that, even if that part is removed, it is still not congruent because there are rules concerning pensions in other sectors that have nothing to do with the rest of the decree, which is largely made up of rules that do not have this uniformity of content - requirement required by the Constitutional Court - and often do not have the urgency and even less extraordinary character that the Constitution provides. I would like to focus on a few points in particular. In Article 11 we have the generational replacement, also called turnover. Not knowing the Italian language, it is necessary to use the foreign language, but in Italian there are words that are perhaps more understandable and that were used in the past in a clearer way: the opposition spoke of the occupation of power, while the majority used the expression "name of trusted people." Having been the rapporteur of the bill (because at the time the draft law was still used and not only the decree-laws) that then became the legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, I remember the very strong criticisms that had been made, just from the left, for the introduction of that 10 percent of executives who could come from outside the structures of the administration. These were very serious criticisms: the occupation of power, the spoils system, that is, taking over the remains of the enemy, that is, the occupied State. Today this 10 percent so criticized becomes 30 percent. But that is not enough: this 30% is identified through a phantom public selection, which is nowhere in the Constitution and much less in our right, while the Constitution, in Article 97, prescribes public competition. In the Commission, the Forza Italia Group has tabled amendments to talk about public competition, or to define this selection in more detail. The government - instead - wanted to maintain the original version, sign - evidently - that it wants to remove other people and put its own. To complete this beautiful operation, in paragraph 4 it is introduced, subtly, that these people who hold managerial positions may not even be graduated. This is the meritocracy that is so much talked about and practiced at the meeting. With all the thousands of young graduates - other than thousands: perhaps hundreds of thousands - who do not find employment in places where it would be normal to apply for a degree, it is written that you may not even have a degree as long as you are friends of someone. This is: you are friends of someone and, therefore, you make a public selection among your friends and so the problem is solved. I would say that - indeed - these are not norms; of course they should not enter into any law, much less into a decree-law. I close by highlighting another very specific aspect. In Article 23-b, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, the entry into force of the single purchasing power station for small municipalities has rightly been extended, with a glimmer of common sense. Then, however, a common sense rule was made to exempt purchases of less than EUR 40,000 from this obligation, but only for municipalities over 10,000 inhabitants. This means strangling the activity of the municipalities under 10,000 inhabitants, probably in an attempt to suppress them. I have already said that in the Commission and I repeat it now: who in the past thought of suppressing - not encouraging, but suppressing - by force the small municipalities, did not get lucky. I repeat: I repeat it now to the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u39	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u40	Mr President, the Group of the North Legacy is now in a narrow position because a large delegation of its own wanted to participate in the funerals of Mr Calderoli's mother. We who remain for reasons of office express our most affectionate mourning. Entirely trusted. There is talk of public administration reform. By now it has been defined as "a thousand norms" for the coacervo that resembles more than a thousand extensions. We are here and we should not have dealt with this measure either, because the Government has tabled four amendments to make up for the huge mess that has been combined with regard to cover. Since we are talking about the reform of bicameralism, let us ask ourselves a question: if there were no Senate today (that is, we did not have a bicameralism that works and that is so much accused), how would it be repaired to this trouble combined by the Government? The government has to ask. It would have been a huge mess. Give us today our daily trust. In fact, we have, on average, every week a trust. If we make two calculations, if it is true that before the end of the summer's work we will reach 20 trusts in 5 months, here every week we find ourselves with a measure on which the government asks for confidence. Cottarelli, the commissioner at the spending review, is risking his job from what it seems; he repeated it not once, but several times. The phrase that struck us was that in which it says that the reforms are financed with announcements of cuts; that is, not with cuts, but with announcements of cuts, therefore these reforms are very far from being covered. The same observations were made by the General Accounting Office of the State, a body not attributable to having a colour or a view of things. The same, with regard to the coverage of the 80 euro bonus, made the senate officials, who were mistreated, treated as partisans and of whom it was said that they were animated by excess of zeal; a pity that even the chamber officials then said the same thing. Renzi and his government, unceasingly, continue a path where everyone says they are walking the quicksand. The Northern League Group in the House said that what we are talking about here is ghost cover; it is a pity that the President of the House's Budget Committee, as a merchant's ear, continues his work forcefully, just as the reading of the Regulations and the Constitution in this House has been forced to proceed with reforms. We think, however, that by force and effort we risk hernias to the brain and the mess they combine are consequent. 4,000 people have been mocked, who thought they could retire and will not be able to do so. They are told that there are no covers and then the next day they read that the government finances 20 million to give 240 euros a month to criminals imprisoned in not too comfortable conditions. It is promised to extend the audience of beneficiaries of the 80 euro bonus to self-employed and retired workers, but this is also uncovered and will remain a frustrated promise. Young people are promised jobs, growth, new jobs and generational exchanges, then these young people read vice versa that there will only be chairs for life, because the baronies are no longer such, but they will be basically chair for life, because letting the possibility of teaching at university up to 70 years will mean exactly this. The most disappointed are perhaps not even these, but they will be those workers who, having 42 years of work behind them, were convinced that they could retire and instead read that they will have to wait for the fateful 66 years. So if we go back on reforms, where it was enough to reach the figure of 90, we have gone up to 91, 92, 95, up to 96, and if you add 42 years of work plus 66 years of age, we are even 108. These people will be able to ask you: "But what do you want from us, blood? We gave you everything. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Aid and small benefits were provided to people who had been permanently disabled for acts of terrorism, but they too are being cancelled. They were few lire, if anything they were symbols; it was an oboleum that had more than anything symbolic meaning. I therefore wonder what will be the state of mind of those families of the victims of the last meteoric events of the Treviso, who have heard President Renzi say to rest assured that the State will not abandon them. He abandoned everyone, I don't know if maybe the last ones will be taken into consideration. We ask the government not to put a hand on the chambers of commerce; it has already done enough. The chambers of commerce reinflate all their resources on the territories, set in motion 400-500 million contracts, of public relapse. Stay still, do not centralize the business registers, because everything the state does is certainly worse than the peripheral bodies. It is better that the state remains as thin as possible, that it costs as little as possible and that it leaves as much resources as possible in the pockets of entrepreneurs and families who know very well how to use them as best they can. Think that the problem with Italy is that families no longer have resources to spend and, if we look across borders, we see that Germany has endorsed and the Bundesbank has given nothing to prevent a 3% increase in wages, far greater than German inflation. But why do we impose rigour, dear President Renzi, while the Germans move on completely different planes? We see no reason why confidence can be given, not least because we must measure not only the political acts but also the behaviour of Prime Minister Renzi. A premier who today let himself run away from being galvanized by the acceleration that has undergone the work on the reforms to the Senate. Our question to Prime Minister Renzi is whether he realized that all oppositions were missing, disgusted by his behavior and methods. If you think you're doing the basic rules like this, and if you think it's good to continue despotically, please sit down. We think that the country will soon take measures against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u41	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u42	Madam President, the approval of the decree by the Council of Ministers took 11 days before the signing of Giorgio Napolitano. A clear signal of the President of the Republic's concern for a reform of the public administration that is perplexed by the number of obscure points. The President has been criticizing for years the unjustified use of decree-laws to address structural problems. The Renzi Government is clearly abusing the urgent decree for its reforms. I repeat that he was forced to ask for 18 votes of confidence in just six months. In this way Parliament is deprived of the time it takes to discuss full-bodied measures, where there is a bit of everything. The emptying of the legislative power for the benefit of the executive continues even without the need for constitutional reform that - allow me - I call reform scam. It also continues with the policy of announcements. These implementing ministerial decrees will have to be launched as a result of this reform. Ben 25! Too many, not to think that the government's haste does not correspond to a policy of postponement. The decree contains proposals tangled, not to say inconclusive, written in perfect bureaucrat. The symmetrical cancellation of dozens of paragraphs of previous norms, moreover, will certainly lead to numerous disputes, flooding even more Italian justice. I would like to highlight a few points in the decree that struck me most. According to the government, canceling detention in service would free 15,000 places for young people. Conditional is mandatory because Minister Madia himself is unable to give a precise figure on the number of vacancies. In fact, the individual administrations will be able to unilaterally send away those who have reached the highest level of contributory seniority. What are the criteria for such a decision? Allowing administrations to decide who is a resource and who, instead, can retire in Italy means discrimination, favoritism and clientelism. The rule had to be clear and unambiguous in order to really work. The administrations will then be able to give free assignments to retired employees. But in this way the places for young people will not really be freed. Yesterday, finally, we witnessed yet another proof of the government's improvisation. After Cottarelli and the General Accounting Office of the State had indicated the lack of financial cover, the Executive was forced to withdraw the correction measure of the former Minister Fornero's pension system, the already famous "quota 96." Over 4,000 teachers and school staff continue to be denied retirement because of a huge mistake. What will Minister Madia tell the teachers now? We're sorry, we were wrong. You still have to wait for retirement. The unpreparedness and incompetence of some members of the Government should have consequences. It is truly amazing to play on the citizens' skin in this way. The aim is to reform public administration before redefined tasks and functions of the central state and local authorities. In short, the roof is renovated, without knowing if the foundations of the house hold. Tens of thousands of jobs are promised to young people, as a result of the early dismantling of a few thousand senior executives. I think that only the real meritocracy in the public administration will restore the public's confidence in the state and its employees. Therefore, I am going to vote against it completely. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u43	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u44	Madam President, once again we are faced with a decree-law that is subject to a vote of confidence; a decree for public administrations which, in reality, should have been the decisive and important one. Not the senate reform one! A decree to be dealt with with with a different importance and a different value and, above all, not to be submitted to the vote of confidence because public administration is the priority, it is the sector that needs to be revised in a more decisive and organic way, not only to obtain savings, but also for a better functionality of the whole system. Unfortunately, however, it is a clever text, and in the terms in which the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, has accustomed us. Most of its rules are little more than statements of principle or more properly of commercials. Renzi, as everyone knows, is very skilled in communication. He uses Twitter in real time to give promises, to inform of the alleged successes and, however, he uses institutional channels when he has to communicate the lack of enlargement of the 80 euro audience. This is certainly not a proper reform. Suffice it to say that, within the maximum limit of 4,000 subjects and within the staff of the school, the so-called '96 quota' for access to the retirement of teachers was to be restored, but there were no numerical limits for referring to a reconnaissance procedure, already initiated by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, which could have registered a number of persons with a right much greater than the number envisaged. This restoration was in favour of school staff workers who had completed their previous requirements by the 2011-2012 school year and who, following the entry into force of the Fornero reform, opted for the full liquidation of pension treatment according to the so-called contributory calculation system. They may request redetermination by applying the ordinary criteria of mixed calculation, with effect from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. Well, this decree didn't include financial cover. I come to read to you what has already been written in the report, where it says: In relation to the coverage, however insufficient as a result of the underestimation of the burden, it is noted that the use of capital resources impacts differently on the three public finance balances, placing a problem in relation to the actual Spendability of these sums, with reflections in terms of indebtedness and needs. In addition, the additional provision of state budget appropriations relating to remodulating expenditure, in the light of the considerable previous interventions of a similar nature (...) - jump some passages. It should be pointed out that the General Accounting Office of the State has underlined the insufficiency of quantification, which derives both from a wider audience of retired persons to be considered, and from the possibility that the norm is the instrument to circumvent the numerical limits placed to the access to retirement "at 96"" (altitude). Since the examination of the General Accounting Office of the State had failed, the fact that it was... president. I invite you to conclude, Senator Blondo. BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude briefly. I was saying that there had been an intervention on school workers, i.e. teachers, considering that the situation of those in these conditions has arisen because the former Minister Fornero did not calculate that for us teachers it is worth the school year and not the calendar year. So how can all these gaps and inconsistencies now allow us to give confidence? But what confidence, if the assumptions are these: the electoral ads, the errors demonstrated at the level of the budget, the backward steps that Minister Madia had to make, the inconsistencies already present in the Fornero law? I repeat: but what confidence? We had to debate in this House and serious decisions had to be taken on a measure at this level, which concerns public administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u45	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam President. You see, Madam Minister, for the umpteenth time your Government puts trust in a decree-law, which, beyond repetitiveness, is essentially legitimate, provided that in the decree-law on which trust is sought there are no errors. You see, Madam Minister, in a decree-law that talks about administrative transparency and the efficiency of judicial proceedings, I would like to point out to you some provisions to confront you on the correctness of the rules. For example, Madam Minister, in Article 1 you imagined the return to 70 for the retirement of magistrates. This is a rule which I personally agree with and which the Berlusconi Government, in the 14th legislature, had already tried to introduce. Minister, do you really believe that it corresponds to the efficiency of judicial action to discover in the space of one year more than 400 managerial and semi-directive positions, with a doubt they give exactly to the efficiency of the judicial service, to decapitate the summits and semi-verticals of a significant number of offices? Then there is the additional aggravating factor of delivering 440 managerial positions to a single Board of Directors, which will result in the formation of management positions for the next period of at least four years. A second rule, Madam Minister. You're talking about transparency. You see, you have considered slapping the Senate, putting back in the decree-law a rule that had already been rejected by the Senate of the Republic by an overwhelming majority; I refer to direct access in the judiciary for those who participate in the internship in the so-called office of the trial. But you do believe, Madam Minister, that there is transparency in the selection of a judicial office for the judicial office... I see they don't listen to me. Thank you, Madam President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u47	I'm sorry; I also understood why. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u50	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, on the most important part of the content of this piece of legislation we have already said yesterday in the general debate and, for the part relating to the social security aspects and the generational change, also in the report that I have done in the Commission work on Saturday morning. It is not on the specific content that we are returning now to declare our vote of confidence to the Government on this measure, but on the reply we have heard from you, Madam Minister, this morning. You said, and we fully agree with you on this statement, that the crucial question is the ability to apply the rules, to make them work in the living body of administrations, even before rewriting them. This is the great problem that we have to deal with urgently, because - it is serious and sad to say, but this is the harsh reality in our country - paradoxically public administrations today constitute the area of the most intense disapplication of the law of the State. The current rules on the collection of surplus staff, on the official activation of the mobility procedures referred to in Article 33 of the single text of 2001, on the responsibility of the manager for the achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 21 of the same single text, are currently completely unenforced. The current rules on the evaluation of managers and on the commeasurement of wages on the merits are almost completely unenforced. It is too widely disapplied, in the public sector, above all an ancient rule that you, Minister, implicitly recalled in your reply: the one which obliges every employee, beginning with the managers, to apply in the performance of his performance the "diligence of the good father of the family". ==References====External links==* Official website This rule, as important as it is ignored, means that everyone must carry out his/her own performance by loving the citizen who is serving as a good parent loves his/her own child. And that's not an exaggeration. You said that, Minister Madia: our public administrations must no longer be, as they have been for too long, primarily at the service of themselves; they must not consider the interest of those who are in charge of them as a priority, but must put the interests of the citizen at the centre, and have this as their fundamental criterion. This is the Copernican revolution that we must carry out: to put at the centre of the system the interest of the citizens and no longer that of the administrative staff; to evaluate managers and employees in relation to the achievement of the objectives set: specific, precise and measurable objectives in relation to the satisfaction of the citizens. The vote of confidence that the Civic Choice Group is preparing to express means essentially this: confidence in the commitment to truly accomplish this revolution. As far as implementation is concerned, more and better than that of the - albeit to some extent necessary - legislative measures. Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, we are with you on this ground and we are committed to doing so in the strongest possible way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u53	MARINO Luigi (PI). Madam President, Madam Minister, the Parliamentary Group for Italy will vote in favour of the decree-law and the measures that the Government has taken in the field of public administration. All the more reason why we will do so after the brief but precise reply of Minister Madia, who reiterated the principles and direction of the march. That is why we are going to vote in favour of it. For at least twenty years now, the opposition to the vote of confidence (the eighteenth in the circumstance) has been opposed to governments and is a truly unproductive and rhetorical exercise; it would be much better to think more deeply about the work of the parliamentary organization. The repetition of discussions and votes between the Commission and the House, both here in the Senate and in the House, shows a sedimentation over time between regulations, procedures and practices based on a culture that does not value the efficiency and the time factor at all, and that I hope is correct by constitutional reform, but it is a cultural problem about our way of doing politics. The media summed up the decree with the issue of "quota 96" and the failure to cover teachers' pensions. True, the Government has made a mistake, although I do not think it was unique and only to do so; But I believe that these mistakes can be overcome by prior political sharing on the fundamental steps and by the recovery of a greater team spirit between the parties of the majority and the government itself. It is in the interest of the Government and the country to find the greatest possible harmony. However, we cannot sum up the importance of this decree in these only two articles, as the information press does: the first, precisely, for 400 teachers, the second for the generational replacement of the university system. Are we sure that Italy, in order to increase productivity and income, needs a generational relay? I believe that what our country needs is greater participation in the labour market. The labour market is produced with work and work is produced with businesses, which are active and competitive. Italy needs more young people, but also its elderly, women. Italy needs above all confidence. In order to recover the millions of jobs that are missing, in order to match the labour market participation rate of most European countries, we must reason in terms of supporting the productive apparatus of our country, supporting the competitiveness of Italian companies, engaging resources in research and innovation, lowering corporate taxes. On this road there are no shortcuts, political inventions: we must support the productive apparatus of the country. Of course, the data are pitiful and tell us that only 10 percent of public employees are under 35 years of age. The cuts, the blockage of turnover, the restructuring, the passive contracts slow down, hinder the introduction into the public administration of new energies, more sensitive to the culture of innovation and change. The decree is, therefore, shared by our Group for several reasons. I quote briefly only four. The first is to introduce rules that apply to all sectors of the administration. We believe, in fact, that only through interventions and general and non-corporative measures will we succeed in changing culture and mentality to administrations that are still self-referential, cannot share information and data, so they lengthen, aggravate and render inefficient administrative procedures essential for the business system and for citizens. These measures, combined with those concerning the reorganization of the system and the strengthening of the National School of Administration, together with those concerning the introduction of the single competition, together with those concerning the introduction of selective procedures for forward contractors, together with those which codify a sacred principle, so that the winners and eligible candidates, i.e. the only ones who have undergone transparent selective procedures, must find entry into the public administration, well, all these measures together provide the Government with effective tools, which will allow to retrain and reorganize the system of public administration. The second reason is the National Anti-corruption Authority. Article 19, as we know, provides for the abolition of the Authority for the supervision of public employment contracts and the amalgamation in the DAC, redefining its powers, indicating a precise mission and giving it very strong powers of intervention. This Authority is thus in a position to implement the existing legislation on transparency, incompatibility and incompatibility. The third reason is that we have particularly appreciated those provisions which extend the obligation of transparency to subsidiaries and subsidiaries of the State and public bodies. This is an issue that needs to be addressed more and more decisively and which concerns all public administration-related companies, as well as companies that use public resources, but which have not so far had the same transparency rules as other public administrations and which are a cause of the disruption of our public accounts. Finally, there is the issue of union relations. My personal history, I believe, places me above suspicion of an anti-syndicalism bias. I believe the social partners are essential for a policy of economic and social growth in our country, but it is not possible to see defending forms of corporate unionism in public administration and local authorities, which have enjoyed privileges and supported destructive welfareism, inefficiencies and great waste. Article 7, apart from its substance, is a sign that change applies to all and that there can no longer be positions of annuity in the institutions and in the public administration. For these reasons and for other reasons, we shall vote in favour of this decree-law. [[Applause from Group PI and Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u56	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how can we not immediately express, at the beginning of my speech, a firm no to the confidence demanded by the Government on this measure? A no that is based on many reasons and that is inspired by all those aspects that have been put on the field in the few days granted to the Senate for the examination of a provision that - I would like to remember - has been flagged as a further, great, wonderful and miraculous reform given to the country by the Renzi Government. However, everything - the method, the form, the relationships that have developed, the contents - cries out to an absolute no to this measure. Perhaps it was a distraction on the part of the Quirinale to recognize the requirements of necessity and urgency to this decree. But was it not said, from the tenants and technicians of the Colle, that ever again there would be omnibus decrees and that never again there would be to the attention of Parliament decrees-laws that dealt with more subjects and more subjects? I must say that in this case the distraction is absolutely obvious. Many other things had then been said from the point of view of propaganda. Wasn't this the government that said that we had to focus on the school as a moment of strength and revival of our country? What was needed also to focus on the ageing of the teaching staff, on investments in the school sector and on the training of our young people? Oibò, what happens instead? The slide. The financial coverage is not exactly for those voices that were to be strategic in the government's vision: they are found for some categories, but not for the school. I remember that one of the few measures that as Forza Italia we had shared - I mean the "quota 96" - for which we had fought in the House, we found it slipped on a lack of financial coverage. But how much approximation, how much superficiality in this way to face problems so important for the country. On the other hand, the strategy had been put on the ground in a very effective way: on the one hand, the grand fund on constitutional reform, making the country understand that the Piave line, the mother of all the battles would have been the abolition of the Senate as we know it in this XVII legislature, except then, behind the smokescreen raised in front of this great operation - more media than of substance - to make really little those interventions that in words were fundamental, important and existential for the life of the country, that is, the reform of bureaucracy and economic recovery. This is the mountain that gave birth to the mouse. Behind the graceful forms and the smile of Minister Madia, beyond the grace with which he exposes the contents of the decree, hides nothing. It is the nothing that goes forward, it is the nothingness of the proposal, it is the disprovement of all the general principles that have been said to want to follow. This is from the Minister himself and then from the members of the majority. I heard an unrecognizable Professor Inchino climbing and having to decline all the verbs to the future, and I could never believe that the professor, my colleague, Senator Inchino, could thus double his personality and, on the one hand, see the world of work in one way and, on the other hand, announce the vote of confidence for himself and for his Group based on the fact that it will be done, you will see, you will say. The Minister has come to this House to tell us that the measure is little compared to what is still going to be done. We have a revival of the announcement effect. The announcement is no longer enough, with this Government, which is increasingly mutant, we are in second-rate evolution. But let us restore the democratic rules of the formation of the will of the laws. What do you ask for trust today? The groups, the parliamentarians, decide on this decree, every senator will give or deny confidence on the basis of this measure. And what is this provision? Do you happen to find any trace of that meritocracy invoked in today's government's programmatic statements? If you want to find something, Mr. and Mrs. Inchino and Mr. Marino, that you are going to trust, why don't you try reading Article 11 of the decree-law. The mayors of the cities are authorized to call as executives - speaking of meritocracy - without any public competition, as provided for in the current Constitution, 30% of the organic endowment of the institution they represent. You understand, on the one hand you scream, you scream, you propaganda the meritocracy, on the other you approvate, you favor, you encourage political familyism, you encourage the choice ad personam. And where are the guarantees that the mayor's choice is voted at best and not at the nearest, at the most prone to the will of the manager of the local agency. And to this we accompany the other aspect: the abolition of the secretaries-general. Let's agree. If we want to streamline the bureaucratic machine, which so many anguish creates in the business world and in our society, which imposes too many ties to the economic and social growth of our country, we absolutely agree. But your methods, your ideas, your setting is antihistorical. And if today you ask for confidence by virtue of what will happen tomorrow, and if this is the dawn of the day that will come, and if these are the presuppositions of what you will show us in this further, miraculous new bill on public administration reform, you will find the hardest opposition on our part, because this is an illiberal reform. Under these conditions, this reform does not take into account either the meritocracy or the right of the sovereign citizen to obtain efficient services. We do not confuse the need for speed with the guarantees of tools available to the citizen for the control of the activity of the public administration. If, on the one hand, you give more powers to the mayors to choose their own leaders, that is, the executor of their own will and political initiative, on the other hand, remove the guarantees of control that must be carried out on these acts. So, what is Italy, the state you want? What is the overall design? A government has a duty to indicate what the framework is and to set within that coherent and organic measures. You lack the plan because I fear that you lack the soul of the nation's government. By making propaganda, continuing to say that you have to hurry, you have to run, you have to go, you have also lost the direction towards which to run, you have lost the objective towards which you want the Italian State to tend. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Mauro. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Then, perhaps I ask you for less speed, more reflection; more reflection that does not mean slowness. Prove to be quick in thought, but show it a thought! Dear Minister Madia, try to come next time in September. Today the rejection deserves it all, so in September it does not come for a repair exam, but for a new beginning of its Dicastery. Come with a reform that makes the meritocracy, the ability to give answers to citizens in fast times, that makes fundamental principles, the rejuvenation of the organic structures of the country from which we depend a serious, organic and articulated project. They don't even come to the debate anymore. (Senator Mauro Giovanni points out the benches of the PD Group.) Your colleagues in the Democratic Party, dear Minister Madia, now know that they must come and give you confidence in any case. You have also reduced the capacity and will of magnificent parliamentarians who have always contributed with their ability to synthesis... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Your time is up. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). ...you have reduced them to simple performers of "yes" or "no". In this case they will always have to say yes, regardless not only of their thinking but also of reasonableness. Then a firm no on the part of our Group, but a no of conscience that would like to stimulate you to better measures. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u59	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law does indeed contain a number of measures which, in our view, represent only the beginning of the reform process that public administration needs so much. This has been very well illustrated by both the rapporteur and the representatives of the Government. We are convinced that it is only a first piece to which we must add others. We therefore hope that this decree-law will follow as soon as possible the examination and approval of the draft law delegation on public administration presented by the Government and the one announced on justice to achieve, finally, those ambitious objectives that are stated in the same title of the measure. We know that reforms cannot be done by urgent decree and that only the most immediate and urgent issues can be resolved by this instrument. But precisely for this reason we are not surprised to see a decree-law made up of many articles and we believe that they are part of the same reform plan. Just to quote a few speeches. There are those aimed at starting the so-called generational replacement and the so-called relay. In addition, in favour of young people's access to work, the rule prohibiting public administrations from giving advice to workers in the public and private sectors who are in a quiet state and those who re-modulate turnover restrictions for certain administrations in the State and for other bodies, such as research and territorial virtuous ones, should be understood. Staying on the subject of social security, it has certainly made a great deal of discussion of the issue (and then resolved) raised by the reference to Article 81 of the Constitution with regard to the unresolved issues of the Fornero reform. We therefore hope that these issues will be taken up as soon as possible within an organic bill aimed at overcoming all the disparities that have arisen with the latest pension reform, which was born in a context of emergency, and that it will give answers to both public and private workers unjustly penalized, building a fair set-up but at the same time - and it has to be said forcefully too - compatible with the available economic resources. We therefore trust in the statements made by the President-in-Office himself in the last few hours. The measure also makes it easier, in our view, to use voluntary and compulsory mobility. We particularly appreciate the exceptions to compulsory mobility, although we would have preferred a wider derogation for employees with children up to the age of six years of the child. We trust that this can be resumed because we had tabled specific amendments in the Commission. With regard to the simplification of relations between citizens and public administration, the rules establishing the prohibition for public administration to request information and data from the citizen already present in the national register of the resident population and those that provide, for the submission of requests, declarations and reports of citizens and businesses, the adoption by state administrations of standardised and unified modules throughout the territory. This is also a first step that looks, in particular, at the user citizen. In this way, the citizen can access from his personal computer a whole series of information and services of the public administration without fileing in front of the offices. This is a significant step, a first step towards digital administration, which is highly desirable in a country that wants to be increasingly European. In our view, the measures relating to civil disability and disability should also be mentioned in terms of simplifications. This is also a very useful and necessary attention because it essentially leads to a simplification of procedures. We also share the reorganisation that is being carried out in the territory of administrative justice and the solution provided for in the text to our examination compared to the initial one certainly seems more appropriate. Positive are also measures aimed at rationalising some independent authorities and at unifying schools of training of state administrations, those that strengthen the competences of the National Anti-corruption Authority, with concomitant deletion of the Authority for the supervision of public contracts. Finally, I would like to refer in particular to the Chambers of Commerce, because we believe that it is very important for businesses and the economy in general to amend, introduced in the context of conversion, the gradual reduction of the amount of the annual fee. In view of the many services provided to companies and to the State by these bodies, the half-life of the annual law provided for in the original text, in our opinion, would have irremediable consequences, while a gradual reduction will enable the chamber system to reorganise by containing the costs. The decree-law also focuses on certain issues relating to justice. In this regard, we very much appreciate the effort made to initiate the telematic process and the provisions concerning the major public works aimed at countering the entire corrupting system that, unfortunately, has often revolved around it. We hope that with this decree and that with the draft law on public administration can be definitively eliminated those inefficiencies that are delaying those 500 delegated decrees whose failure to issue does not allow to make operational many of the laws approved by Parliament. For the Gruppo Per le Autonomie (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE the decree deserves to be approved because it expresses in any case the will to change the way of being of the public administration, the will to make our administrative machine transparent, less bureaucratic and efficient; in short, the will to start a public administration close to the citizen, the families and the enterprises. I therefore vote in favour of the question of trust of the entire Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u62	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that the Group of the North Legacy will vote against yet again the Government's request for confidence in Parliament on such a measure. It is not to oppose, as it seems and as often the oppositions are accused of doing, but because we disagree on the substance. In the merit of an umpteenth decree-law that is sold as an important and epochal reform that goes to improve and efficient a system such as that of the public administration, of the carous structure of this country, but that, in reality, is not such since nothing is expected of incisive. This is a set of rules that are only minor adjustments and improvements to some of the rules already in force; otherwise, we are only faced with referrals to another delegated reform law that seems to come in the autumn. It is a decree-law, this, that already lacked the presuppositions of extraordinary necessity and urgency precisely for this reason, and that is defined by the Minister himself as a first leg, precisely, of a reform, which - however - will see the light with a delegated law. We want to say at once that this way of doing the Renzi Government - I am referring to this continuous reference to proclamations, announcements and chatter that are instead empty and devoid of real content - will pose a problem and will put our country in front of risks, from the point of view of the public accounts, that will be really worrying. We see that the government is continuing to legislate without checking whether there really is coverage and money and does so systematically. He did so with the promise of the famous 80 euros paid to certain categories, but kept with new taxes charged to all and not covered to the point that, just a few days ago, Prime Minister Renzi had to retract and admit that these 80 euros will not be granted instead to categories such as pensioners, self-employed and incapienti (that is to those social categories that most need). They leave out, therefore, whole groups of needy people. We see that in this measure there is talk of retirement of public staff, teachers and state, but they leave unanswered, for the umpteenth time, all those thousands of people, exodus, for whom, instead, efforts to find cover so far have never been. This continuous way of acting without cover, irresponsiblely and only to sell proclamations, really risks putting our country in front of what will really be, in anticipation, a chasm in the public accounts. This approach, therefore, combines only mess and will expose us to risks, probably already with the corrective maneuver in the autumn, facing the need to intervene. Our Group will also maintain a position of opposition with regard to some of the rules contained in the package that is now before us. The Senate did not even have time and time to examine the measure, because, again, we had a bottleneck of the times of the debate. More than 700 amendments have been tabled in the Commission, but we have not even had the opportunity to analyse them. They have been re-tabled in this House simply to remain in the proceedings, because, for the umpteenth time, the question of trust has been raised. Going to look at the content of this decree-law and the various rules contained in it, we can only remain disappointed. In fact, faced with a sector, the public sector, which continues to cost the state's coffers several million euros and which weighs and stifles the world of the private sector and the business sector, in this measure we take nothing to intervene in the face of cuts in unproductive spending and in the face of the efficiency of the system and deburocratization, which are the real things that would serve to give a minimum of revival to the economy and give aid and support to the enterprises. We see nothing on the front of the reordering of entire sectors. In the face of all this we remain disappointed, also because this is instead announced as who knows what reform. Let me give you an example with regard to turnover. We have also seen in the Commission that a reference has also been made to the Chamber to the limits on recruitment for certain cases of employment with the exception, as a case may be, of certain sectors. I am referring to the sector of socially useful work and the work of public utility, these are staff who, in this case, remain excluded from what should be the necessary downsizings. It seems to us for the umpteenth time that certain categories of workers and certain social categories, which are the productive ones, are being hit, and that entire pockets of customer welfare are being kept. I would also like to point out that, for the umpteenth time, they are making a fool of themselves, because for example, the issue of "quota 96," which was also raised by the Minister, really suggests how this Government continues to proceed in an approximate and completely irresponsible manner. It was thought to find some kind of cover in the House, but the General Accounting of the State and the Ministry of Economics and Finance had the Government backtracked. We heard days ago Cottarelli say that the cuts in public spending that had been estimated were not made and that in any case do not go to reduce taxes, but to feed new public spending; so even for "quota 96" the coverage is not there and all this, with an embarrassing turn back, only leaves uncovered further problems. It is therefore only a farce that is put on the ground and it is always the usual way of this Government to propagandize something to the citizens with the absolute complacency of the information and communication system. On the other hand, we were asking and hoping that serious measures would start to arrive and that in this way we would begin to address the urgent problems that the country feels the need to resolve, those that really go in the interests of citizens, families and businesses. Even in the maxi amendment on which the Government has placed the confidence remain open of the nodes that have not been overcome. I refer to a very dangerous and important rule; in the Budget Committee the Senate had been made a remark that was not accepted and that concerned the reordering of the chambers of commerce. This is yet another demonstration of the government's will to centralize, to concentrate everything on itself, without real distortions that it creates on the territories also in this sector, that of the chambers of commerce, which instead is fundamental, because it represents an aid for the enterprises, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises that are therefore penalized. Once again in the public sector we intervene in a bland way and instead we constantly go fishing in the private sector which is being increasingly suffocated. I remember that the chambers of commerce, in addition to providing jobs and therefore providing employment to thousands of people who today are uncertain about their future, offer great services not only to businesses, but can also help the various territories and also deal with the financing of important works. It is demonstrated: for example in the Veneto Region, the data show brilliantly how much aid is given to the territories. I also recall a study by the CGIA di Mestre published a few days ago, according to which the average savings that with the decree-law you consider to guarantee to the enterprises would be 5,2 euros per month, compared to 400 million less investments for the economy of the territories, moreover in fundamental voices, such as export, credit, tourism, innovation and training; not to mention that this norm, that in a stubborn way you continue to want to carry on, puts at risk the work of 2,500 people, determining a situation of absurd instability, even with an increase of 167 million euros for the coffers of the State. This is one of the examples, but in the decree-law in question there would be many to raise to demonstrate once again how this way of proceeding is dangerous and will put the country really in front of great risks regarding the holding of public accounts. It is useless to sell announcements and to make pure propaganda, for example by carrying on in summer with blows of confidence decrees-laws such as the one under consideration, which do not determine any revival on the front of the economy, the resumption of consumption of the country, simply thinking that people, who are on holiday and who try to find a minimum of relaxation in a condition already painful from the social point of view, can drink everything. That is not the way forward, and for these reasons our vote will be firmly opposed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u65	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we in the Left Ecology and Freedom Group will vote against this yet another decree on which the question of trust has been raised. In today's wide-ranging debate, it was recalled that this Government, in reality, operates only through trust. This government that was to change and innovate, in reality, is in full continuity, in methods and in merit, with the worst last governments that we have had. I'm talking about the Monti Government and the Berlusconi Governments. But that doesn't surprise us either. If you agree to make constitutional reform with a secret pact with Berlusconi and Verdini it is clear to everyone that Renzi's PD has as its only novelty that it has rehabilitated Berlusconi politically. Somehow, however, the great deception must be masked. And then you choose the policy of ads. Every day a different announcement of change and every day moves the bar to confuse the people. At the end of May a presidential tweet announced the reform of the public administration, with the aim of reducing the waiting lists to avoid an hour in a row for the renewal of the identity card. That's what he said. Well, an ambitious goal! Yet we wonder why, in the five years as Mayor of Florence, the President of the Council has never tried to reduce the line, reorganize the services, increase the allocation of staff in the offices to the public, not to close the decentralized personal points. We have carefully read the "reform" but, unless there are misunderstandings, it does not seem to us that the waiting time for citizens will be reduced by a single minute. The issue of the alleged reform, in fact, is not the quality of the services offered to citizens, but a strong will to strike workers. And here, too, continuity returns. We all remember very well, the then Minister Brunetta and his battle against the lazy and idle civil servants. In order to reform public administration, that is, the machinery of the State, it would have been necessary to talk about functions and responsibilities, needs and resources: how to improve the working conditions and the role of staff, those workers and workers who have contributed, despite everything, to build the public sense of the State in years and years. A real cultural investment in the relationship between citizens and the public services system would have been useful. Such a reform would have required the full involvement of all the social partners in the representation of workers in order to work. Instead, you preferred to make a direct preconsultation of the workers, but then we discovered this morning from the words of the Minister that it was a consultation of the citizens. This is not clear to us. Of course, out of three and a half million workers in the public service have responded in 39,000. A very respectable number for us, but we must say that you have a strange idea of direct democracy and participatory democracy! We are well aware of the war that, for years, illustrious representatives and supporters of this Government have waged against trade union organizations. And the House's colleagues have done well to restore the presence of trade union organizations by means of an amendment. In general, we are faced with a measure of small maintenance and, moreover, badly done. And it is not clear to us what positive effects it should have today, in the light of the deleted amendments tabled yesterday in the Senate. The government talks about generational relays, but we are faced with a new cut, starting with precarious workers in the Province whose contracts will not be extended, starting with the cash-integrated trainees of justice, for which there are not sufficient appropriations. This morning, the Minister referred to mandatory mobility as a means of running peripheral gates. He didn't mention hiring. As we think of young researchers and precarious research workers, who are a disproportionate number. An urgent measure would certainly contrast the brain drain and favour generational renewal. We are not facing a radical change in public administrations, as citizens and public workers have been demanding for years. The idea of a friendly state to combat the decadent representation of public administration, as Minister Madia said in her speech this morning, can only be realized in our opinion if the citizens are offered an overall plan of change that responds to their needs. With this reform, nothing changes. Even if you approve it at speed, nothing will change that real life that the Minister referred to this morning. Nothing for those who still hear answers from a CUP that the bookings for a health service are suspended (and for this reason they are forced to address the private) or have very long times; nothing for those who last year have not found (and will continue not to find) place in public kindergartens and schools; nothing for those who, in front of a desk of an office, are forced by bureaucratic rules that impose, for example, the paper reproduction of documents and certificates drawn up by another public administration. All useless commercials, harmful to the country because we continue to speak to the belly of the people while we should all work together to culturally raise the country from the rubble of Berlusconism and rebuild the sense of the state and public policies, after years of disastrous privatization. It would have been useful, for example, to renew the public employment contract, because in five years 25 billion euros have been stolen from the workers and we all wonder how they have been used. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] This would have been a real reform. You can't think of making reforms from above, to make them work. Those who are directly involved, not blackmailed with compulsory mobility, salary reduction or demand should be involved and motivated. The only positive thing that the decree contained - and I begin to conclude, asking permission to attach the full text of the intervention - was the so-called 96 quota, but yesterday you were able to put off these expectations as well, not only of the 4,000 school workers who finally saw their right to retirement recognized, but even the hopes of the many precarious, precarious at least over 10 or 20 years, who saw a real further opportunity to stabilize.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u66	The Presidency shall authorise it to hand over the full text of the intervention in order to be annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u67	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). This time it is not enough a tweet of reassurance and postponement to yet another school decree coming. (By the way: but what mania is that every Minister who arrives must produce a decree? Only last year we approved a school decree!) Having tabled a deleterious amendment to the Commission yesterday was a concrete act. Now we need as many concrete acts and real economic commitments because we are not content with the usual promises. To send back again means to prolong a great injustice, represented by the worst reform of pensions ever achieved in Europe, the Fornero, that of exodus, the numbers not identified. Sending back means slipping one more year. Tell us there's no resources. Isn't there any resources? Well, change your priorities. Did we not say that politics makes choices and technicians try to make them? We would like to know the truth and who told a lie, if the President of the Budget Committee of the House who claims that the coverage exists or the Government that today, withdrawing the commitments made, claims the opposite. And you justify yourself saying that this is not the right decree? But it is only a trivial way to take time, because the point today is to find the resources, it is not to identify the most suitable act. There are no resources, there are no covers simply because you change the name to the decree. It has been a year for all the political forces in the House and the Senate, across the board, to pose the problem of the "altitude 96," the exodus of the school and to have a great courage, perhaps a great nerve to postpone it again after all the demonstrations of solidarity and the singing victories of these days. In short, as young ministers we would have expected a reform with and for, not a counter, not a punitive reform, because in this there is nothing new and once again you have failed to take the right path. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group. The Senators of the Misto-SEL Group display a banner with the inscription: "SEL" says no to Renzi's squola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u68	Please remove that banner. I'm asking who's in charge of removing it. Senator De Petris, please enforce the rules, which you know well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u71	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Madam President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of this measure, which represents a small piece of the great mosaic of reforms. A mosaic that we are trying to compose these weeks and that will take a more complete and complete form in the program of the next 1,000 days of government. The framework is undoubtedly represented by the reform of the country's institutional structure, but all the measures that we are tenaciously carrying out in recent weeks of parliamentary activity are a sign of change and determination to change. The sign of this change is also found in the contents of the decree that we are going to convert today, with urgent measures for simplification and administrative transparency and for the efficiency of the judicial offices. In fact, together with the law of delegation on the reorganization of public administrations (the so-called simple Republic), it has the ambition to finally make our cumbersome administrative machinery effective and efficient. The mosaic will clearly take much of its form with the approval of the economic reforms, the demanding reforms that await us in September, starting with that of the labour market, which is currently under consideration here in the Senate, which must go in the direction of greater flexibility, in order to continue with the reform of the tax system, which will force us to a dutyless simplification of our complex tax system and to a real policy of tax reduction. But the mosaic will be complete only when we are able to reform without fear and courageously the judicial system of this country. This Government, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, also thanks to the decisive contribution of the New Right Centre, has the ambition to really change the country. It must do so in order to give urgent, but also long-term, answers to a society and an economy that have been suffering for too long. It must do so by affecting all the pockets of resistance to change, which for decades have paralysed doing in the name of protecting. It must do so in the name of no longer ideology, but of that common sense of the people that represents the heart of the feeling of people and therefore of the country. Let us take the decree on the reform of the public administration that we are going to vote on today. Three years ago, when our country received the famous letter from Brussels, we were asked not only for interventions for the sustainability of public finances - which were actually implemented - but also and above all for growth measures. And among them, in addition to liberalisation, privatisation and measures to make the labour market more flexible, we were also asked for a revision of the public administration, in order to improve administrative efficiency and the ability to meet the needs of companies. Today with this decree we give an answer, albeit partial and incomplete, to those demands, convinced that a public administration and a justice that works better help to get out of the crisis and to restart the economic system. But how can public administration function better? First of all, by keeping pace with the times and encouraging the entry of young people, who are digital natives and who can benefit from the generational relay and turnover that this decree provides. I don't want to go into the debate on the rules that have been canceled here in the Senate. The Government acted by receiving observations from the General Accounting Office of the State. I just say that, when we talk about our pension system, we must use the utmost caution (managing carefully, as we say for fragile objects!) and we must avoid compromising a balance of the very precarious system and, above all, a great deal of time to come. Italy's annual social security expenditure in relation to GDP is 2-3 points higher than that of the advanced countries. We continue to spend too little on active labour policies and support for the family and birth and too much on passive policies and pensions. Despite this, we feel a deep discomfort because we are faced with the need to delete rules that affect people and that we probably would have done better not to include in the debate, in order to avoid a reverse that sounds like an obnoxious double denial of a right. The Fornero reform has ruled out the necessary transition that allows people to reorganize their lives in relation to the new rules. This has been counter proof of the fact that spending commitments of some 13 billion in favour of so-called exodus have been made. But the problem is now more general and cannot be reduced to individual social segments by exalting inequalities. We need a meditated adjustment of the reform, which is aimed at all and which can be reasonably accepted by the European Commission itself, since Italy is the most rigid system in Europe. On the one hand, it could be assumed that voluntary payments by workers and their employers could be detaxed on the basis of the current retirement age; on the other hand, it could allow at a moderate transitional stage the possibility of early exit from the labour market which is properly penalised as in the case of the open window for workers in 2015. But I return to the theme of the generational relay and to the proposal of the New Right Center. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has adopted an agenda which, in order to genuinely promote generational replacement, by facilitating turnover and by making it more public and private, is proposed to introduce the apprenticeship contract in the public sector. In theory, the use of the apprenticeship contract is already planned for public administrations, but it is pending an implementing regulation, as always. Full use of this form of contract would reduce the initial labour costs of employees and increase the number of recruitments in the first three years of application. The new recruitments are calculated as a percentage of the expenditure equivalent to the cessations of the previous year. If contracts cost less, it is thus possible to increase the number of recruitments at the same level of expenditure. In our opinion, the more uniform the discipline of public employment is to that of private employment (excluding the constitutional principles in this area, such as competition procedures), and the better the public administration will function. We think not only of the use of the apprenticeship contract that we have proposed, but also of the correct use of term contracts, even dismissals, without forgetting different pay rules that cancel the automatisms in the advancements and remove an egalitarianism that is only of facade. Public administration works better if, as is done in this decree-law, it rationalises offices, costs and charges, as foreseen for the part on the Authorities. It works better if it has simpler rules, such as those on public procurement, which not only make the lives of businesses easier, and therefore allow them to save time and money thanks to more agile procedures and at a more certain time, but also make less asphyxiating the power of bureaucracy by fighting corruption in this way. A country with simpler rules without corruption is certainly more attractive for investments, especially those coming from abroad. In short, net of the discomfort, that I have mentioned above, for a way of working that we have not shared, we believe that this provision is a good start. If we continue in this direction with the approval of the delegation law on the simple Republic and with the profound reform of justice, we will go in the right direction, that of an essential, but authoritative state, that frees and does not hinder the vitality of our society. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u74	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the fifteenth trust in five months, eight in the House, seven in the Senate: a record for republican history. Do I remember badly or did the young Renzi (to whom only the tweet remained as a young man) announce that he would interrupt the old customs and give a sign of discontinuity, a breath of freshness and novelty? "Rottamation," he called it; "now" he said. Yet we find ourselves with yet another confidence. The previous governments have taught him well, indeed, the student is overcoming the teacher. Convicted at first instance for a felony against the public administration for erarial damage when he was President of the Province, he is now preparing to reform it. He remembers that man who, with dozens of ongoing trials, had set himself in the head to reform justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you remember that? We called him a colleague until a few months ago, then he fell for a final conviction for tax fraud. The decree presents itself with a title - pardon, with a tweet - captivating: "Reform of public administration" is replaced by "Reform of public administration." It is part of the fantastic four, announced by the President of the Council after his appointment (not election, nomination) by Napolitano, in the very distant February of this year. Do You Remember? A reform a month. February, constitutional and electoral reforms: time expired; March, labour reform: time expired; May, tax reform: time expired; the reform of the public administration, first set by April, then postponed to June: we are in August and reform there is no trace in this decree. More than a reform is a reform. You had a date, an expiration date. I wish it were just a problem of missed predictions! We're in front of a serial liar, and now I'm telling you why. Renzi 1.0 said: "We go back to preference or we go back to the one-name colleges."The Renzi 2.0 launched the Italicum with the blocked lists. Renzi 1.0 said that "the real point is that in any country, when a political leader is condemned with a sentence passed in court, the game is over, game over" (his words); Renzi 2.0, instead, says: I just say that there is a deep harmony between the proposals that the Democratic Party has presented to the primaries and the proposals that we had the opportunity to discuss today with Silvio Berlusconi and Gianni Letta. This is Renzi 2.0. The Renzi 1.0 said: "I have always said, in all the interviews, that I would pass from the main staircase" () "If tomorrow morning the Letta government collapses (...), I believe that, for what I have in mind, either passes from an electoral consensus or you are not credible () "; the Renzi 2.0 says: I have received a mandate from the President of the Republic to form the new Government. Renzi 1.0 says that in a normal country it is not possible that the symbols of the parties change every time and remain the same faces as the leaders of the country. It doesn't work that way elsewhere (he said so in a heartfelt tone). Well, Alfano, Delrio, Lorenzin, Lupi, Franceschini, Orlando: same faces, same Government. But let us go into detail, colleagues and citizens, I do not want to avoid an in-depth analysis of the text. The title of the decree that we are going to trust today is, in fact, well distant from the tweet announced, reduced compared to the announcements of reform of the public administration. There is talk of urgent measures for simplification and administrative transparency and for the efficiency of judicial offices. The decree is a set of good intentions, ideas thrown there in the middle, in an untemporary, uncoordinated and incomplete way. This decree is not a reform of public administration, let it be clear; it is a sort of glossary, a list of some forty issues, proposals, which concern public administration, administrative simplification and justice, each of which would need an ad hoc legislative measure, submitted to the relevant Commissions. Instead, we have a zibaldone of rules, dealt with hastily, with obvious madornal errors. Some have calculated in 25 the ministerial decrees necessary for this measure to become operational, which are added to the other 800 still to be issued by the previous governments. And then the problem is Parliament and the Chambers: the problem is the Government! For example, the office of the trial at the judicial offices is established, with an article thrown there in a decree, when on the subject of reorganization of work in the judicial wards there are decades of studies and insights, analysis and comparisons. Too bad, it would have been an excellent opportunity, it would have had our proactive contribution, because on the subject of transparency, administrative simplification and deburocratization you know well that we have always spent ourselves with concrete proposals. If he hadn't put his trust in it, maybe some articles would have voted it out of the blue, even if only good intentions were involved. Too bad. In this decree we see only two certain things. The first: it will certainly serve a new decree shortly to heal the madornal errors, to extend the not respected deadlines, to postpone the entry into force of prescriptions that are introduced in this decree. So the only sure thing about this decree is that we're gonna need another one soon to fix it, like all previous ones. The other sure thing, the only sure, true, direct and applicable thing is the 15% increase in the unified contribution, that is, the tax on civil processes that citizens have to pay in order to be able to access civil justice: this is certain and is not the subject of further decrees, it is already in force. In this way justice is becoming more and more the prerogative of the few, that is, of those who can be allowed to access it: with previous decrees you already had, among other things, increased quotas for access to justice. Minister, you spoke about the need to give concrete, immediate and tangible answers to citizens. I wonder - and I now ask all of you - what the rule on inter-compartmental internal mobility of public administration staff will bring to citizens right away. What immediate benefit will they have, provided that this works out? What good will the rule on the out-of-role placement of magistrates and all other rules on magistrates bring to the citizens in the immediate future? What will bring the regulation on the reorganization of the Ministry of the Interior to citizens in the immediate future? What good will the rule on early retirement of journalists in financial crisis? What does it have to do with public administration journalists from corporate warheads? What's that got to do with anything? How do you explain this to citizens that these people are allowed to retire to 58 years of age and 18 years of contributory seniority? How do you explain this to those to whom you have raised the retirement age? Who did you marcetta to? Say it. And how do you say that you have expanded the powers of the National Anti-Bribery Authority when, in reality, you have simply merged in it functions that already carried out another Authority, the one for the supervision of public works: you have simply merged two functions, you have not expanded anything and you have introduced nothing new. The only rule that has a direct consequence on citizens is yet another 15% increase in the tax on trials and is nothing good for the population. Then there are those rules - perhaps the only ones - which would have brought direct and tangible benefits, but which have been lifted immediately these days, with an amendment by the Government, because there were no cover, due to lack of funds: we are talking about a dozen million euros, gentlemen, about ten million euros, which is a ridiculous figure for such measures. But what awaits us in September, what does this mean? Let's just say there's no more money, that's probably the problem. If we can't find 10 million euros to heal a violation of rights, where will we find the money for everything else in September and for all the promises that will not be kept? I am thinking of the rule that abolishes, for example, the contribution to the Chambers of Commerce, without realizing the direct consequences on the organization of the Chambers of Commerce, on the services offered and on the staff who work in them, forgetting also or knowingly ignoring - as you yourself admitted in the Commission, Minister - that in Sicily, for example, the Chambers of Commerce pay pensions to staff in quiescence and that they may be in the immediate absence of the economic willingness to provide. Your answer, Minister, was a shrug on your shoulders. There's nothing you can do about it. I am thinking, again, of the teachers of the so-called 96 quota, so mentioned. A mistake on the skin of people: 4,000 people who have seen their rights violated for the first time and who have deceived themselves - yes, you have deceived them - and today they will again be betrayed, mocked. Play on the skin of people, forgetting that behind those cold numbers there are people, families with children, mortgages to pay and sanitary expenses to be faced. Minister, you announced this morning that the government will make a structural intervention on the school: I am sure that all the school staff are already shaking at the idea that someone will once again rethink their sector for yet another counter-reform. When it comes to structural intervention, the first thing that comes to mind is cuts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish your speech. CRIMI (M5S). One final consideration. Finally, I am thinking of the victims of terrorism and massacres, for which benefits were expected: well, this article has also been repealed due to lack of funds. Victims once, then, and already victims a second time. And you are the new constituent Fathers? You are unworthy of this name. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u77	[[Comments of Senator Marino Luigi at the address of the Senators of the M5S Group. Protests from the M5S Group]] Please, Senator Marino. Please, Senator Crimes. Senator Marino, Senator Crimes, allow us to continue our discussion. Senator Bernini has the floor if you're allowed. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we also confirm our vote against the substance of this measure as well as the way in which it was conceived. Ways that we continue to deprecate, we can't do otherwise, we've seen it... (Exchange of jokes between Senator Marino Luigi and Senator Montevecchi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, that's enough. Senator Montevecchi, Senator Marino, we are at the explanations of vote of another Group, please a little respect. Please, Senator Bernini, continue. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, these are ways which we cannot fail to criticize, Madam President, for the reasons we set out yesterday and which we will briefly remember today. We cannot accept that the Government - and this is the main provocation towards not only this Parliament, but also and above all, and we will see it better later, with regard to the recipients of this measure to which Minister Madia referred in his remarks of reply - adopt deprecable, absolutely provocative ways. The government becomes legislator twice. It becomes a legislator first when it issues a constitutionally illegitimate decree-law with respect to the incongruence of the requirements required by Article 77 of the Constitution; and we do not say so but the General Accounting of the State at the moment when it does not bill it, the Technical Offices of Chamber and Senate say so at the time when they find that there are no covers, which makes it constitutionally illegitimate under Article 81 of the Constitution. All this doubly provocative, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because this measure, this decree-law by which the Government has become the first legislator and will become the ultimate legislator with the umpteenth request for confidence has already passed through a branch of Parliament, has already gained a forced, forceful and extorted trust from colleagues in the House. This means not only a lack of respect for the whole of Parliament, but above all a lack of respect for those 4,000 school workers who were granted a pension last week which is now being taken away from them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Colleagues, it is not trivial to work with urgent legislative acts delegated only to resort to certain assumptions to the Government. The Government cannot become legislator, the Government cannot issue valid and effective measures that enter into force immediately, the Government cannot do so and cannot do so under the banner of improvisation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] This is what we are saying forcefully already from several decrees to this side. We see him colleagues because, unfortunately, the twin of this decree, the so-called competitiveness decree (again misleading advertising, once again seductive, suggestive terms, which unfortunately do not correspond to the content of the seductive container) is stranded in the Chamber's modifying clamp, once again linked to lack of coverage, so we will probably see him again amended and again trusted. Once again, there are modificative confidences. Once again measures that are effective for a moment and then are modified through other confidences. This is not an appropriate legislative mode, it is not a constitutionally legitimate legislative mode. And that, just as far as the method is concerned. Without wishing to talk about the substance, which is amply illustrated in this House. This measure, said Minister Madia, is characterized by the need and urgency to give answers to the citizens. And if we want to remember this - even if I realize that it is almost useless, willing, to quote the Constitutional Court in this House - the Court, now for fifteen years, is saying that there is no general urgency in providing; there must be real requirements of necessity and urgency, which cannot exist in a reform of the public administration that has already been done three times before and never - I repeat, never - through the instrument of the decree-law. Mr Madia, however, in his reply today said that the real heart of the public administration reform measure lies in a bill of delegation presented in Parliament, in particular in the Senate, and that it is hoped that it will soon be scheduled in the Commission on the merits, i.e. in the first permanent Commission. We learn, therefore, that the heart of public administration reform lies elsewhere. But then, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what part of the body of the reform are we talking about right now? What is the character of this measure? What are the contents so necessary and urgent to make public administration immediately, necessarily and urgently different for businesses and citizens? Are they so necessary and urgent that it is not possible to wait for a bill of delegation? Moreover, this measure again contains secondary referral rules. Colleagues, you will not be able to escape the undersecretary and Minister Madia who, while the reform of the public administration is under way, still await 812 implementing measures to be put in place. I repeat, these are 812 measures put together in the last three governments (Monti, Letta and Renzi) and others are added with the measure under consideration; moreover, there are several masked delegations that we will see whether they will be taken into consideration, or not at the heart of the measure that - as we learn today - lies in another measure compared to the one under discussion today. What are the characteristics of a public administration reform measure, like all of us - I imagine - ecumenically conceive of it and how was it advertised and proposed to us by the Government, with the usual tonic, promotional and extremely captivating formulas? Firstly, it has been said that this measure simplifies the lives of citizens, reduces costs and makes public administration more transparent. I do not want to dwell on the individual arrangements because, unfortunately - as you know - the issue of trust has deprived us of the pleasure of discussing the substance of the measure; it has deprived us, therefore, of the contents, if not for a very rapid passage to the Commission in which we have been told that unfortunately, given the tight times, we should have once again on the confidence to adopt such a measure, on which, moreover, four amendments by the Government (we have already said this and I apologise for having to repeat myself) have probably removed the most tonitrious aspect of its presentation, that is, the generational relay. Also in this case, I open and immediately close an incision: it cannot be argued that, net of the 4,000 employees of the section of the school, only the lack of detention in service - we are talking about 1,200 people from whom we must exclude the magistrates and the military - will represent an effective generational relay, of which Italy will notice. This is another of those misleading advertisements that we cannot endorse, ladies and gentlemen. We have been told in this very House, by a colleague from Minister Madia, that lies are not needed in politics. This, however, cannot be a unilateral path. No one has to tell lies in politics, especially the government, which must not tell them either in the containers or in the contents. I do not see generational difficulties, I do not see work organization according to meritorious and responsible criteria. Can it be said that compulsory mobility within 50 kilometres seriously, effectively and efficiently unlocks the organisation of work? Can it seriously be said that these measures will bring honour to the merits and dishonor to the demerits and that at last there will be an entrepreneurial management of the public administration, according to criteria that are not only those of the self-referentiality of some sectors? Since I have finished the time available to me, Madam President, I conclude by pointing out that during the three explanations of vote which have taken place over the last two days we have said a great deal, but there is still a great deal to be said about the substance of this measure, which does not respond to the promises. Anticipating the vote absolutely contrary also on the merit of the provision of which we have been snatched again by the Government, I remind the latter a sentence that Milton Friedman attributed to Thomas Jefferson: the best governments are those who know how to give the simplest answers, but sincere. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u80	Mr Russo (PD). President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that we are dealing with an issue which I believe the citizens are asking us to preserve from biased controversy or from the tensions that accompany the constitutional reform of these days. I say this because I have heard of omnibus decree or exodus in a decidedly improper form, but above all because the reform of the public administration - which this decree tries to anticipate in some of its necessary and urgent lines and awaiting the most organic provision that will follow - is, in fact, one of the decisive issues on which to measure the reforming capacity not only of this Government and this Parliament, but of an entire political generation and its ambition to leave a mark not ephemeral in the political history of the country. As we have repeated several times - and President Napolitano has done so even more authoritatively - in this brief but already very intense legislature, we are entrusted with the task of bringing citizens closer to the very idea of the common good, of the national community that sees in the State and its political and administrative articulations an instrument for building and defending the life and development of the civil community. Many of us are here at their first term, but they are experiencing the burden of mistrust, mistrust and little credibility that surrounds us and that is the basis of perceptions that are now also mythological that characterize parliamentarians and administrators perceived indistinguishably as caste. We know, however, that a very significant part of the discredit of the public thing stems above all from the increasingly less happy relationship of the Italians with the administrative apparatus of the State, also perceived as self-referential and at the service of their own logics of self-preservation rather than really at the service of the well-being of the citizens. I believe that each of us has heard, in the electoral campaign or in the frequent meeting with the voters, stories of ordinary administrative madness: often they have reproached us with 70 or more permits, certificates or permissions necessary to open a simple activity like a bar or a laundry; the absurdity of having to take a day of vacation to line up at a civic center and get what could come on the tablet or on the computer at home; the bitter confession of a public manager who admits to spend with his colleagues most of his time not to solve problems and to build innovative solutions but to cover his shoulders from the reliefs of the superiors or of the Court of Auditors. And again, the anger of knowing that it is not enough to be right in business or social relations if someone who has wronged you can challenge you in a defiant and endless judicial affair, whose long times are the best guarantee of impunity. Here, then, is the meaning of our challenge: to restore quality and dignity to what is still the most important and decisive public infrastructure in our country. To give back to those who work in public administration the pride to carry out a decisive service for the quality of life of their fellow citizens and for the future of their country. In fact, in recent decades we have managed to lose the value of an extraordinary heritage and to degrade the role of many daily and silent civil heroes, of those who deal with the most delicate aspects of our existence: the doctors and nurses who care for our elderly, the teachers to whom we entrust the most important years of our children, the law enforcement forces that protect our safety. All because of an unhealthy idea of productivity and profit, but above all a bad maintenance of our public administration that we need to overcome today. To go in the direction of simplification in the first place in favour of the weakest, of transparency, of generational turnover, of overcoming privileges, of digitalization and of the fight against corruption as indicated by the measure that we are about to vote means to destroy those common places that today mortify the many qualified servants of the State who do - often in the shadows - their duty and justify the simplified demands of those who only want to cut and reduce the public machine without facing the fatigue of a much more useful and necessary retraining. We will have succeeded in our task when citizens ask themselves not how much public administration costs, but how much it is worth. To do this, however, the wheat must be separated from the loam; the pockets of inefficiency and privilege and the paradoxes of a machine created to serve must be identified and firmly struck, but it often absorbs more resources than it produces. I would just like to give an example, by quoting my North-East, in the absence of territorial misunderstandings. Among the interventions to support the poorest families, which some Regions have launched from North to South, the one in Veneto is today an example of socially useless work. Each euro paid costs about 1.34 euros of bureaucracy and allows to reach only 1% of families in poverty. It's just an example, but I think each of us could make it closer to home. From here, our support to the Government to pursue with determination the objectives indicated also with the work on the future delegation law. The proposals put forward by the Government on the subject of the sole role of management, flexibility in the allocation of positions, remuneration policies and career paths linked to merits and competences, revision of the discipline of responsibility and incentive of mobility, find us in full harmony. An effective reform of the public administration should also have other simple guidelines: ceiling for salaries; shortening of the chain of command; distinction between politics and administration and between administration and jurisdiction; professionalisation of management, choice with the constitutional criteria of competition and impartiality; exclusivity of assignments; mobility. We therefore hope and trust - as far as possible, we will ensure - that the development of these principles does not end in implementing measures and finally allows to unlock a sector which is a prisoner of rigidity and excessive immobility, giving space to capable and competent people, whether within the public administration or coming from other areas of the economic, national and international system. From this point of view, the high average age of public management represents a historic opportunity and allows us to hope that the generational staff, rightly emphasized by the Minister, will become reality, perhaps also through formulas that, like the contract of French generation, guarantee, as far as possible, the presence of seniors and new recruits and bring, and not distance, the public sector from the private sector. We believe there is a real possibility of changing 50% of the executives currently in service simply by managing the physiological turnover over seven to eight years: time perhaps destined to shorten in the face of the new measures, such as the abolition of the institute of detention in service. Let's really hope we don't miss this chance. What, then, are the points, in our opinion, still to be emphasized in this measure? What must we and can we say to the Italians to share our ambition and our work on a theme that we know deeply felt and destined to affect the everyday life of every family and enterprise? I take only one minute, then, to recall two aspects particularly related to the sensitivity of citizens. The first is the commitment that emerges from this reform in the direction of a fight without neighborhood to corruption. It is not necessary to recall the justified wave of indignation towards the recent events of MOSE and Expo 2015 and the sense of impotence before the idea that it is now impossible to carry out a contract for public works without the necessary set of bribes and stolen taxpayers' money. Hence the appreciation for the increased role of the National Anti-corruption Agency and its President Canton, through new functions in the field of transparency and prevention and the possibility - as the rapporteur recalled - of receiving news of anomalies and irregularities related to public contracts throughout the national territory. The second relates to the challenge and potential of the instruments that technology also makes available to a renewed public administration. Our time is for young digital natives, but also for many less young digital alphabets. These are Italians who live in a natural technological dimension, which demand and make possible a different relationship between public administration and citizens. In this direction, the decree-law provides not a few elements of innovation; from the simplification of the governance of the Agency for Digital Italy, to that of online modules, driven by interoperability and the opening of databases. And, again, the implementation of the technical rules of the code of the digital administration, with the power of the Presidency of the Council to adopt them in case of non-compliance of the other Ministries; the introduction of the digital administrative process; the simplification of the telematic civil process; the computerization of the accounting process and the tax process. In a largely positive assessment of this measure we do not want to silence some criticalities regarding which - as the Minister acknowledged in his reply - the Senate unfortunately could not substantially intervene for the compression of the necessary times to convert the decree-law before its expiry. The first - we cannot hide it - is linked to the issue of "quota 96," which also today fills the pages of the newspapers. We must admit frankly that this is a defeat for all of us; it is a defeat for Parliament, even if it is faced with a responsibility and mistakes that date back to the Fornero reform. President Renzi has done well to confirm the commitment of the Government to find an appropriate solution for those who have suffered objective discrimination in the measure that in the coming weeks will put hand to the entire section of school. This, however, must not lead to a profound verification of our working methods and of the relationship between the Chambers and the Executive, with difficulties that last from more legislators. We say that, ladies and gentlemen, because we would like it to be the last time we have to hear in this House or in the media that the Accounting Office has prevented a measure on which Parliament has acted. This is not good for the authority of legislative power, but not good for the other sectors of public administration. Secondly, we would like to say that we are not convinced by the provision in Article 1-b which provides for the early retirement of the staff of the National Institute of Social Security for Italian Journalists (INPGI) of companies undergoing restructuring and reorganization. We understand the situation of particular crisis in the sector, but it seems to us a dangerous precedent compared to conditions of discrimination between sectors, which risk not appearing entirely motivated. We really trust that the government will be able to put our hand in future measures. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me end by thanking the Minister, the rapporteur and the Offices for their work. Despite the criticalities just remembered, we are faced with a measure that cannot be ignored the overall positive and innovative scope, starting - as it has been remembered - from the public consultation that has characterized the first phase and that is really, I emphasize, a good practice to repeat. The second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution assigns to the Republic the task of removing the obstacles of an economic and social order which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent their full personal development and participation in social life. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Russo (PD). I'm finishing, Madam President. We know that the right to education, health and work are the cornerstones of this positive action, but it is equally clear that it is through the strengthening of an increasingly rooted and efficient public administration that these rights have become effective, ensuring Italy an unpredictable economic and social development even for the generation of our grandparents. For this reason the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law and confirms its confidence to the Government in its efforts to modernize the country; an effort necessary for the difficult exit from a crisis perhaps unpublished, to give the country a stronger public administration, competent and capable of enhancing its excellence, from its roles only seemingly minor.. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u81	Thank you, Senator, but you have already exceeded your time by three minutes. You can hand over the text of your speech to the Presidency for publication in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u82	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u85	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Madam President, first of all let me thank the Minister who, with his attitude of listening to the House and - contrary to others - never arrogant or ridicule towards some senators, certainly helps to make the atmosphere of this House more peaceful. I also thank all the professionals who have collaborated with Liguria Civica to analyze in depth the decree-law in question. We are not an opposition party; we consider from time to time what we are going to have to vote on, and I then interpret it in this House, but I have to say that in this case we are looking at the return to the local public authorities of this decree-law. Certainly there are many parts of the measure that we do not agree with and the fact of putting trust we are very sorry because they would certainly have been modifiable, but we also look at the effects that it can have on the territory. We live in an area, like all the other regions of Italy, where the biggest and most secret problems are in the controlled companies, where they end up employees who can no longer stay in the public bodies, where there are the greatest waste and immense sums that are not quantified in the budgets of public bodies We have decided to vote on this, not trust. I don't like to talk about trust; trust puts it up by the government, it's its challenge; on the contrary, putting trust is somehow its blackmail because it wants to force the hand of those who might be against it but in this case they vote for it. On the other hand, we are voting on this decree-law because we believe that it makes very positive changes if they are well managed. It is certainly a start, Madam Minister, and we will certainly have to move on. We regret the position on the chambers of commerce. The chambers of commerce, as I have heard in the previous speech by my colleague, Mrs Lega, which I share, give great help to the territory. However, they are very different from each other. For example, in our region we have the Chamber of Commerce of Genoa that has done great things for the city and has often replaced the public bodies, but we have others that have proliferated the subsidiaries and have brought their spending more than anything to promote them, to create boards of administration and useless societies. On the chambers of commerce there will be a great reflection, and we hope there will be time to do so. In conclusion, I am voting in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u86	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,700 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 24 June 2014, n. 90, with amendments accepted by the 1st Permanent Commission, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. Senator Corsini, for health reasons, will vote first. They also asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Schifani, Esposito Giuseppe, Astorre and Olivero. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Serra is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Serra. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting operations, the Presidency takes over [[- 14:40. Senator Scilipoti manifests his presence but does not participate in the vote. Applause from the M5S Group at the address of Senator Rubbia at the time of his vote against:]] Yes, the senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Carini, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chiti, Cirinna, Ciciancich, Collina, Compagna, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Formigoni, Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Finsorgoni, Fingoni, Fingoni, Fingoni, Fornaro, Fingoni, Finaro, Finaro, Fiangoni Senators say no: Airola, Alberti Casalati, Alicata, Amoruso, Amorus, Anitori, Aracri, Aurichi, Auricchi Barani, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bignami, Bisinella, Blucon, Bocca, Bocchini, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Buccarella Caliendo, Cappellett, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalog, Ceroni, Ciampolilo, Compagnone, Cotti, Crimes, Crosio De Pietro, De Pin, De Pin, Divine, Donno Endrizzi Falang, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fukpolilo, Compagno, Compagno, Cotti, Crimi, Crimi, Crosio, Crosio De Pietro, De Pietro, De Pin, De Pin, De Pin, De Pin, Gim, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Rep Rep to Iurlar, Iurlarola, Le, Lezzi, Lezzi, Lezzi, Lizzi, Lizzi, Luzzi, Luzzi, Luzzi, Luzzi, Luzzi, Mussardud Malan Malan Malan, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Mandel, Man, Mangili, Mangili, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Marin, Mar, Mar, Mar, Mart, Mar, Mar, Mar, Mar, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Marton, Mar, Mar, Mar, Mar, Mar, Mar, Marton, Marton, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Ma of, Maton, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Mauro, Giovanni, Giovanni, Giovanni, Giovanni, Giovanni, Giovanni, Giovanni, Mazz, Giovanni, Giovanni, Mazz, Mazz, Muro, Maz, Maz, Maz, Maz, Maz, Maz, PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,700 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion to law, with amendments, Decree-Law 24 June 2014, No 90, with the amendments accepted by the 1st Permanent Commission, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 268 Senators voting 266 Majority 134 Favorables 160 Contrars 106]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Ironic applause from Senator Marton.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 90 are therefore precluded or absorbed. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.06 p.m. and resumed at 4.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u87	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would like to inform all the senators that Senator Calderoli, who has been held at the airport by inconveniences, is arriving in the Chamber. The work is therefore continuing in accordance with the order laid down, pending, of course, the arrival of Senator Calderoli, with the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u90	FINDING, rapporteur. President, I have not been warned by Senator Calderoli of your arrival. It catches me in a difficult situation, because - as you remember - we decided to put aside articles 10, 11, 12 and 15 pending the arrival of Senator Calderoli. I ask the courtesy of waiting, having had no opportunity to discuss it with him. By the way, I didn't even know that Senator Calderoli would be here this afternoon. You're certainly more informed than I am.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u91	I knew, just before I came here, precisely because I needed a confirmation, that there were demonstrations at Fiumicino airport and that these held Senator Calderoli, who was also unable to communicate his arrival in the Chamber. Therefore, I would suspend our work for ten minutes until Senator Calderoli arrives. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Otherwise, we have to start according to the established order; I was able to talk to him. FINDING, rapporteur. Have you been able to talk to him? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, he was still inside the plane, but he's on his way. If no comments are made, I propose that we turn to the amendments tabled in Article 10, after which we shall be updated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u94	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to understand: are we not going to suspend?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u95	We are continuing according to the normal order: we have interrupted the examination of Article 9 and now we move on to Article 10. A proposal had been made, but it was determined by other events that did not happen, so we proceed according to the order of the articles. Unfortunately, the communication was not such as to allow a return to line according to the pre-established order. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You said you communicated with Senator Calderoli from the plane. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He was already here. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Otherwise there was an arrest; I wanted to tell her that she was reporting a crime. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no news of a crime. As there are no other comments, we shall proceed to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 10, after which we will see whether to proceed to the vote on the amendments themselves. I therefore call on the authors to table these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u96	Mr President, I really want to take some time to say that there is an abomination in this House and that history will condemn you. There are people out here who have no bread. What do we tell them? What are the reforms? I no longer recognize authority, President...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u97	You have time to explain the amendment. Please stick to the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u98	PUGLIA (M5S). I took the time, instead, to say that I am not in this abomination of our freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u99	Mr President, we have tabled Amendment 10,203 because it is in line with the fact that the future Senate of the Republic has a fundamental role in Parliament for the approval of issues relating to the relationship between the State and territorial autonomy. With this amendment, in fact, the scope of the legislative function exercised collectively by the two Chambers is widened, with specific reference to the government of the relations between the State and the autonomous and, in particular, to public finance. The new Article 97 of the Constitution assigns, in fact, to all public administrations - therefore also to territorial ones - the task of ensuring balance of budgets and the sustainability of public debt. State and autonomous are therefore associated with the achievement of the overall objectives of public finance: so the so-called reinforced law, n. 243 of 2012, in Article 3, reaffirms this principle, establishing that public administrations all contribute to ensuring the balance of budgets, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution. It is therefore clear to all the aporia that would result in preventing territorial administrations, which share in achieving the overall objectives of public finance, from participating in the fundamental choices of coordination of public finance as a whole in an equal way within the new Chamber of Autonomies. We therefore consider it useful that the new Senate participates in this process, seen and taken into account the objectives described above.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u100	Mr President, as is clear, we have tabled many amendments to this article concerning the legislative procedure, but I would like to focus in particular on Amendment 10.26 on the collective legislative function. In relation to the Commission's text, we call for the collective function to be exercised also for all laws governing rights and freedoms and for those of amnesty, indult and ratification of international treaties. In addition to the proposal we had put forward, concerning an elective Senate, including with particular regard - yes - to the functions of liaison with the Regions and the European Union, we propose that the Senate approve the laws transposing European Union law, as well as all those that have in the matters referred to in Articles 114, 117, 119, 120 and 122 of the Constitution, for a very simple reason. Even if we were to speak about the intentions of this so transformed Senate, I believe that the proposal to assign these powers to it in relation to the Regions and the European Union should indeed be accepted, because they are fundamental, even if the new Senate, since it is no longer elective, would have a different nature. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that the spirit of collective legislation on amnesty and indult, rights of freedom and civil rights is also in line with the amendment that had been adopted a few days ago, on the fact that, precisely on ethical, freedom and civil issues, double reading and collective legislative procedure constitute a guarantee, contrary to what has been said in recent days, by making propaganda easy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u101	Mr President, I would like to explain very quickly Amendment No 10,210 and Amendment No 10,462 and also Amendment No 10,218, so I am silent. In addition to what my colleague Mr Fravezzi has already said, Amendments 10,210 and 10,462 aim, precisely, to provide for the participation of the Senate in legislative activity in the laws concerning the coordination of public finance. This is more of a logical issue than the overall approach to this reform. If the Senate becomes, as it should become and as it is becoming, a Territorial Chamber, therefore of incardination of the Regions and in part of the Municipalities in the national decision-making and legislative process, it makes no sense to exclude the House that should do exactly this from participation in the legislation in the main function, the most important one, from which everything descends cascade, that is the laws that have a financial impact. There is no need to remember what has happened in recent years, it is clear that it exists and that it is widely, perhaps even too much, provided for in this reform the possibility by the State to intervene unilaterally in limiting the margins of autonomy of the Regions. However, it would seem at least logical that the body that should be an expression of regional representation within the process should be consulted at least or at least have the possibility to decide on financial matters, at least in the part that concerns the possible impact on regional finances. It is a logical consequence of the approach that has been decided to give the Senate. Amendment 10.218 requires the Senate to take part in the adoption of laws concerning linguistic minorities. Apart from the fact that there is already a framework law in this area and it is absolutely unlikely that many more will be done in the future, it is also a question of consistency with what the Senate has already wanted to approve in recent days. I recall, in fact, that an amendment was adopted which provides for the participation of the Senate in the adoption of laws in matters relating to Articles 29 and 32, second paragraph of the Constitution. Since we are in the area of fundamental rights and linguistic minorities - which I think we have discussed too much in this House - are clearly linked to the protection of fundamental rights, it is logical that the Senate should participate in legislation in this area. If there are not very few laws affecting public finance, it is not foreseeable that there are many new laws in the future that will have to regulate the rights of linguistic minorities. These are therefore the amendments I wanted to make, drawing attention to the fact that they are a logical consequence of the fundamental choice that this House is making.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u102	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that amendment 10.214 was also signed by other senators and I wanted to apologize to them because it was probably my failure not to report their subscription in good time. Secondly, I wanted to point out that this amendment aims to give the Senate also competence over those laws of an orderly nature which are consistent with the attribution of the function of linking local autonomy and Europe, which has been recognized in the government project and in the project of the speakers as one of the prerogatives and functions of the next Senate. The law n. 234 of 2012 is today the one according to which the 14th The Commission, which sees the participation of all the political forces represented in Parliament, which I believe have always combined in this context efforts to best represent the country's collective interests towards the European institutions, both at an upward and descending stage. It seems to me obvious, logical and consistent with this project that the law that will govern the manner in which the 14th Commission and in the future will operate the Senate both within the competence of the Senate itself, which will therefore have competence from this point of view on its own operating modalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u103	Mr President, I have signed 28 amendments to Article 10 and some of them are also first signatories. In addition to explaining some of these amendments which refer to the fundamental rights of the person, I will clarify some data, at the end of my speech, on the fact that less than half of them will be re-presented the issue of the secret vote, in view of the fact that, having taken a look at the Presidency's resolution, I think that deepening for institutional purposes, even in the future, is indispensable. On these amendments - some of which will be withdrawn, as I will say at the end of my speech - the presidency of the Senate had decided to distinguish between the secret vote on linguistic minorities and that on civil and ethical relations and had admitted the secret ballot for the only amendments relating to the functions of the Chambers, thus confirming these secret votes on Articles 1 and 18 of the draft law at our examination, and not on the legislative procedure, which refers to Article 10 which we are currently examining. I think there has also been a misunderstanding in reading both Article 10 of the draft law and our amendments. Very quickly, I retrace what might be a more in-depth approach by referring first of all to a literal issue. The distinction between the norms on linguistic minorities and those on civil and ethical-social relations is not reflected, according to the meaning made clear by the text of article 113, paragraph 4, of the Senate Regulation, because this refers to deliberations relating to the norms on minorities or pertaining to civil and ethical-social relations or concerning amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Hence, from a literal point of view, there is no distinction between the various types of rules. Secondly, I would like to refer to the comparison that has been made with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber: there we refer to votes that affect the principles; the Rules of the Senate instead uses the verb "attain", which has a broader meaning therefore indicates a greater scope than the formulation of the Chamber. Third point (I move quickly). Especially since reading the rules I do not understand - I have tried to deepen the subject these days - why it has been considered to distinguish the amendments relating to civil rights relating to the functions of the Chambers (Articles 1 and 18) from those referring instead to the legislative procedure, referred to in Article 10. In fact, it is clear that both in one case and in the other there are rules which all apply to civil and ethical-social relations, in accordance with Article 113 of our Rules of Procedure, and certainly the relevance is also achieved with regard to the exercise of the legislative function, in particular the procedure for the approval of laws. It is then, and should be pointed out, that this relevance of Articles 1 and 18 and Article 10 results from the performance of the legislative function of the Senate on these matters. I therefore come to the point where it seems to me that there has been a misunderstanding. In order to clarify the inclusion of the legislative competence of the Senate in a general list of functions referred to in Article 1 or in the list of matters in which the legislative function referred to in Article 10 is exercised, it does not allow any distinction, either from a legal point of view or from a logical point of view. What should be re-decided on in substance is on which subjects the Senate has legislative competence or exercises its function in an equal way. Mr President, if we read the text of Article 10 in our examination, we see that it refers to an amendment to Article 70 of the Constitution. It is quite true that the title reads: "Legislative procedure" - but the first paragraph of this Article 70 speaks of legislative function and refers to a set of issues within which we want to include the issue of civil rights. The legislative procedure does not concern this first paragraph on which we would like to include our amendments, but refers to the second and third paragraphs. The functions or competences must be exercised through the procedure which is described from paragraph 2 and then from paragraph 3. If, therefore, it has been correctly considered that the relevance of the rules on minorities or civil relations also affects the exercise of their functions and, in particular, the legislative function, secrecy can only apply to the voting of the amendments to Article 1, just as to the voting of the amendments to Article 10. This is also clear with regard to the substance of the amendments. On the other day, when we voted on Amendment No 1.1979, in the name of Senator Candiani, we spoke on the subjects referred to in Articles 29 and 32, second paragraph, of the Constitution, which are the same as those covered by Amendments Nos 10.236 and 10/239, which were in fact absorbed by the adoption of that amendment. Moreover, all the amendments on which the secret vote was requested relate to civil and ethical-social relations, as referred to in the articles of the Constitution referred to in Article 113. I come to the conclusion by quoting the last point, which is that of consistency of decisions. The same admission of the secret vote which was communicated by the Senate Presidency on Article 18, which amends Article 79 of the Constitution concerning the procedure for the approval of the laws of amnesty and indult, further confirms how articles on the procedure, if pertaining to certain matters and functions for which the secret vote is allowed to protect freedom of conscience, should be voted by secret ballot. Therefore, the secrecy of the vote on the amendments tabled in Article 10 is first of all imposed by consistency with the decision taken - correctly and in accordance with the previous ones - on the amendments relating to Articles 1 and 18, and therefore with respect to the ratio of allowing an adequate exercise of the parliamentary function by protecting the freedom of conscience of individuals. I shall conclude, Mr President, also for reasons of time - given that this microphone continues to flash - by indicating the amendments withdrawn and on which the secret vote would be reconfirmed, taken note, of course, of the confirmation of amendment 18.1. The amendments withdrawn were 10.236 and 10/239, replaced by an agenda already tabled. Amendment 10.228 is also withdrawn. On the other hand, the request to reconsider the possibility of voting by secret ballot is reconfirmed: 10,220, 10,221, 10,222, 10,227, 10,230, 10,232, 10,233 and 10.235 (which relate to rights within the process, personal freedom and the principles of fair trial, also referred to in Article 111 of the Constitution).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u104	Mr President, I shall be presenting more than one amendment, making a speech on the whole of Article 10. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with your competence, Senator Finocchiaro has explained to us on several occasions that the proposed reform sees the Senate participating in the legislative procedure in three ways. The first: au pair with the Chamber, for a double reading of the text, in some subjects; the second, on other subjects, with a kind of reinforced opinion, to overthrow which requires the absolute majority of the members; the third, with a mere opinion that the Senate can express if it requires a third of the senators and that the Chamber may decide not to accept with a simple majority vote. The issue is of crucial importance because - as I tried to say in the general debate last week - the law has a direct impact on the rights of persons, since the first part of the Constitution puts to law forms of exercise, levels of protection and limitation to the extent of individual and social rights. And the law is not only an act, it is also a process. Reforming the legislative procedure means changing the sense of guarantee of the reserve of law. With the amendments of which I am first signatory or co-signatorial I urge the Senate to expand the matters in which bicameral law is necessary. Let me give you two examples. First of all, the laws governing jurisdiction. In favour of the restoration of the fully bicameral law for the laws governing the judicial order and the structure and organization of the justice militates the argument of the evident impact on the rights of citizens of the norms that supplement - for example - the composition of the judging colleges, the career progression of judges, the division of jurisdiction between ordinary and administrative judges. These are matters that require stability and predictability and cannot be left to occasional majorities. The independence of the exercise of the relevant functions and the consolidation of the guarantees in the jurisdiction are at stake. That is why I urge the House - when we get there - to approve Senator Casson's amendment 10.242. The second example I would like to take is information services and state secrecy. That is Amendment 10,216 by Mr Casson. Information services are public equipment of vital importance for the defence of the State from internal and external attacks. All democratic countries have their services for the simple reason that we cannot renounce to know the news of supreme importance for the security of a system and its summits. My personal trust in services is full. However, by their very nature, information services must also have operational spaces in the territory not allowed to all. They can carry out activities that - if they were carried out by other citizens - would be criminal offences. That's what Law No. 124 of 2007. And then - if there are facts or operations that need to be kept secret - it is possible for the President-in-Office of the Council to lay down state secrets. The possibility of asserting functional guarantees is limited, just as there is parliamentary control over the use of state secrecy. But all these aspects have an impact on the enjoyment of citizens' rights, because they could mean that certain prerogatives of people are limited by the conduct of services. I would like to close by announcing that I will also comment on Amendment 10,199 by Mrs Dirindin, which aims to include the point (m) of Article 117, i.e. the determination of the essential levels of assistance, as well as full bicameralism. The relationship between state competences and regional powers will also need to be deepened. Mr President, I would like to add the full text of my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u105	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u106	Mr President, amendment 10.249 adds a clarification to the first paragraph of Article 10. It is a coordinating amendment that gives the collective legislative function the election of members of the Senate. This is required because in article 57, paragraph 6, there is the reference to the law, which must be approved by both Chambers, with which the modalities of allocation of seats are regulated. It seemed important to us that in the first paragraph of Article 10, namely Article 70 of the Constitution, which defines the subjects covered by the collective legislative function, this law should also be included. The rapporteurs will probably tell us that the conclusion of the same paragraph, where we talk about the "other cases provided for by the Constitution," also includes this case, and therefore the election of the members of the Senate, as defined by our amendment. It may be sufficient, but, as far as I am concerned, further clarification might be useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u107	Mr President, Amendment 10,312 comes back to a proposal which has long fascinated doctrine and which has never until now become a concrete and effective proposal: I am referring to the introduction of organic laws into our system. What are organic laws? They are a new type of law that would go hand in hand with constitutional laws and ordinary laws. Therefore, they would be alongside laws for whose formation the aggravated procedure referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution and the laws that respect the normal process of formation is required, going to place hierarchically between these two. What's the matter? The problem is that the development in the majority sense of the form of government with an electoral legislation now firmly oriented towards promoting the formation and identification of a large quantitatively guaranteed majority, together with the concentration in the elective Chamber alone of the relationship of trust, requires that standardization for certain subjects cannot be handed over to the only majority winner of the elections. This is an issue that has been raised many times these days. For this reason, the amendment provides that our legal system, such as the Spanish and French ones, is endowed with legislative sources that go hierarchically between the most aggravated procedure, referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution, and the ordinary one. These issues, for example, certainly include the electoral law, which is all too often left to the parliamentary majority who, according to the polls (then things never go as expected, fortunately), could decide to change it to ensure their re-election. This proposal is, of course, an alternative to the rapporteur's amendment, which is debated and questionable, which provides for prior scrutiny by the Constitutional Court of national electoral law. Why? The tendency of these years to change the role of the Constitutional Court, which has seen its arbitration function increase, weakens the function of guarantee of the Court in order to operate more close to current events, as a referee of conflicts, ending the Court to be dragged more and more into the vortex of political polemics. It is clear that this role would more politicize the Constitutional Court. That is why, as an alternative, the amendment proposes to adopt this instrument, which is in force in France and Spain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10.414, which proposes to continue to make possible what is possible today, i.e. to adopt a law in a very short time. It has already happened in the past - many a few times - to pass a law even in 24 hours. With the procedure described in the revised Rule 70, it seems that ten days must be waited to see if the Senate is asking to examine the measure approved by the Chamber of Deputies. My proposal is also to allow the Senate to decide not to examine the measure. It may be that understanding is already reached by the third period of paragraph 3, where it is established that: If the Senate of the Republic does not have the opportunity to proceed with the examination(...)..., with what follows, the law can be promulgated. But then we should change this third period by writing: If the Senate of the Republic decides not to proceed with the examination, it shall not proceed with the examination. This is in the interest of safeguarding, with this new system, the possibility of passing a law very quickly. I think that's what understanding is. I therefore hope that the rapporteurs - who are not listening, let alone the government - will have an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u109	Mr President, very quickly I will be presenting Amendment 2,238, of which I am first a signatory, and Amendment 2,240, which I have signed, the first signatory of which is Senator Cucchetti. Amendment 10.238 concerns Article 31 of the Constitution and we believe that the measures implementing this Article should remain a bicameral competence. This is a very special article, which is one of those that protect the rights of social training (i.e. Articles 29, 30 and 31), and maternity, childhood and youth, not limiting these guarantees to the "legitimate" family. There are already judgments of the Constitutional Court that have stated this point from 1997 to 2000. It is an article that is in strong connection with Article 2, where it is said that the Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. Mr President, as is clear from the preparatory work on this article, the family institution is pre-juridical, i.e. it exists before and regardless of legislative intervention. This is a very delicate situation and we think that it is essential at a time when there is much discussion about the meaning and concept of family, extended families, families, that all legislative measures relating to this subject and implementing Article 31 should be of bicameral competence. Mr President, let me make a single reference to Amendment 10,240, which calls for the measures relating to Articles 40, 48, 51 and 98, third paragraph, of the Constitution to be a bicameral competence. We are talking about political and trade union rights that are essential in a phase of transformation of the labour market, but also about revision of a number of concepts, such as Article 40, in which we talk about the right to strike. Mr President, these days I have been faced with an INPS circular which penalises hours of strike with regard to the early retirement of workers. It seems to me to be a very serious issue and I think that there is a need to maintain the intervention of both chambers clearly on these issues. We are talking about public subjective rights of freedom. In short, I am still talking about the right to strike: it is not possible that the State can ban or punish collective abstention from work, nor can it issue laws (I am quoting Calamandrei) that however conflict with the right to strike. I am talking about a series of articles that, in addition to trade union rights, relate to political rights, the possibility of party membership, the possibility of applying; in short, these are situations that are evolving in a very strong way, which really concern the fundamental rights of citizens' participation in the public life of this country and above all the rights of freedom. Therefore, Mr President, I consider it essential that measures implementing these types of articles should be of bicameral competence. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u110	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,486, which concerns the penultimate paragraph of Article 10 of the Constitutional Bill; a paragraph which has been amended by the Commission and which essentially provides for the reinforced procedure, i.e. the qualified majority of the members of the House, to depart from the Senate's proposals on budgetary laws and stability laws. Now, I believe that this statue is not consistent with the nature of the Senate that has been defined in Articles 1 and 2 recently approved: a Senate that has a link with the autonomous and does not have a full political mandate. Now, fiscal policy and economic policy are at the heart of the political direction, on the basis of which the trust relationship between Government and Parliament is established; the trust relationship from which the new Senate will be foreign. To provide for a reinforced majority and, therefore, to give the Senate a power essentially of ban or codecision or co-determination in a matter such as economic and budgetary policy, I believe it does not correspond to the plan of the new Senate. Moreover, I would stress that this matter is one of those on which the role of national supremacy of the State should potentially be exercised, as it relates to the achievement and pursuit of those objectives/limitations which are also provided for by European economic policy. Decisions on debt and deficits are matters of political concern and on whose definition and implementation there is a responsibility of the State and the National Government towards the Community institutions. Therefore, allocating and sharing this competence would condition and limit the power of the national government in European fora, because its ability to realize the constraints provided for in the European Treaties would be put to a power of co-determination with the Regions. This amendment of mine, moreover, is closely linked to the subject that we have begun to discuss, and then refer it back to this article, introduced by Senator Azzollini's amendment 1.1926 on the monitoring of the fiscal compact. This issue is strongly linked to the implementation of European constraints and therefore to the monitoring of the fiscal compact. For this reason, while I support my amendment 10,486 to restore the original version, I now declare, in due course, my opposition to Senator Azzollini's amendment 1,1926.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,469, which deals with a subject which I have already dealt with in my general speech. The rewording of Article 117 includes in many areas the concept of general or common provisions, which fall within the exclusive competence of the State, which will determine how the regions will then be able to develop their legislative activities. In my opinion, and in the opinion of my colleagues who have signed the amendment, these are the most sensitive subjects of the relationship between the Region and the State. They are those subjects, so to speak, at the border, where the State dictates the general rules and the Regions legislate specifically. In my view, the laws that carry these provisions should be passed by qualified majority, i.e. by the absolute majority of the House. That is the point of amendment 10.469. During the debate on this subject I understood that there is a difficulty in accepting it, because one can imagine that these general provisions would be distributed in many measures, rather than in those organic laws that Mr Maran mentioned earlier. At the end of the debate, I took your attention to this issue in the reply of President Finocchiaro: if there were a reformulation, even by the rapporteurs or by the Government itself, I would obviously be interested in evaluating it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u112	Mr President, bearing in mind that the Senate wanted to assign direct popular representation to a single House and to maintain our Republic as a parliamentary Republic, I believe that the competence of the Chamber elected by universal suffrage must be clarified in an irrefutable way. Amendment 10.478 seeks to introduce the following principle in this respect: On the rejection of these amendments, those relating to the modification of jurisdiction, the position of the question of trust by the Government is not allowed, nor is the procedure referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 72, which is obviously a procedure of forcing through regulatory procedural instruments and, even, with the application of the so-called guillotine. It is an element of clarity at a time when we want - in this sense I believe the Senate has spoken - to give the House of Deputies the function of the prevailing ordinary legislation. With regard to the relationship also with the competence of the Senate, I wanted to explain the amendment to paragraph 1, paragraph 70, which intends to replace the sixth paragraph of Article 10, but I do not find it among my proposals. I don't know if it was an omission or if there is any element of voluntary ban.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u113	Excuse me, what amendment are you referring to? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). To an amendment to Article 10, relating to paragraph 1 of Article 70 of the Constitution as well as new ones, replacing the sixth paragraph. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What number is the amendment? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). That is the problem, because I cannot find it in the file, Mr President. If you think I can explain the contents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, give me the content. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). In essence, the amendment provides for the Senate's strengthened opinion on the draft decrees, which can only be surpassed by the absolute majority of the House, of course with regard to matters of competence also to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u114	Mr President, I will present Amendment 10,479 which aims to introduce legislation into legislative activity in the sense that the ordinary legislative function must be exercised through the adoption of single texts or codes for individual subjects or functions or for homogeneous matters and functions. It is also laid down that: the successive laws or provisions amending or supplementing the legislation in force must consist of novelties to the single texts or codes themselves. This is in compliance with the principle of the uniqueness of the source of cognition. This is the attempt to introduce into the Constitution a principle that rationalises legislative activity, leading it back to certain sources that make it absolutely recognizable, being, this, also a fundamental principle for the protection of rights. In order for this discipline not to have an immediate pre-emptive effect, the need for an ordinary law governing this matter is foreseen. It seems to me that this is a very important principle which, in the context of a reform of the Constitution, is no less relevant than so many other principles because here it is a question of establishing the fundamental need for legislation to be transparent, knowledgeable and very clear. It is not only an essential principle for the respect of legality, but it is also an essential principle for the clarity and relationship of the citizen with the law to be more aware. On the other hand, what leads to the confusion of current legislation and also what affects the same areas of expansion of illegal activities is well known to all and I do not need to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u115	Mr President, Minister, rapporteurs, I would like to focus on the issues that, in part, have already supported Senator Lanzillotta. My amendment 10,481 seeks to deny the new Senate the possibility of discussing the budget law by proposing the deletion of the paragraph in this regard. I remember that our first problem is the economic one and comes from the huge public debt that we have; debt that has accumulated - everyone recognizes it - during the years of the Republic because the coalition governments have not resisted the lobbying, and has not served the constitutional norm that provides that every law must have its cover. If it had been respected, we would not have the debt that we find today. I am therefore not convinced either by those who have referred to the rule laid down in the Constitution since 2012, in which it is expected that the budget balance cannot be exceeded. I would remind you that in England the budget law is inemissable: it is being discussed in the Commission and then in the House, whether it likes it or not. In this reform we expect the Senate to be able to say its own and, if it makes observations, the House must have an absolute majority: in this way it means perpetuating the strength of the lobby. Moreover, I would like to point out that an honest and correct person responds to the one who pays for it, and yesterday we stated that the next senators will be paid by the Region. This means that the representatives of the Regions in the Senate will do, correctly, the interests of the Regions: which means that the budget law will be polluted from the start. Then I add a final practical note. One of the reasons why this reform is done is also to reduce the structures of the Senate. Then I wonder how a simplified structure in 15 days will be able to seriously examine the budget law. Then let us avoid, please, the perpetuation of lobbying power and let us confine the House of Deputies the opportunity to examine the budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u116	Mr President, in explaining Amendment 10,195, I would like to say that the strongest motivation behind the reform we are building is to overcome the current form of bicameralism which, as a balancing factor in decisions over the past few years, has become a brake on them. Reforming bicameralism, therefore, is reforming parliamentarism in order to secure it and to build credible and efficient institutions. The fact that politics is capable of reforming itself is something very important at this stage, in the context in which we live. Then Amendment 10,195 places a fundamental issue in the economy of this reform, which is that of European legislation, decisive precisely for having institutions capable of unlocking our country. The amendment introduces, among the functions of the new Senate, legislative competence in the procedures for the participation of institutional actors in both the preparatory and the implementation phase of European legislation and fully fits into what is the spirit of the rewriting of Article 55 of the Constitution, as it resulted from the work carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On the contrary, my amendment not only supports the dictation that speaks of a link between the European Union, the State and other constituent bodies of the Republic, but also strengthens this spirit by inserting a fundamental part, without which, in our opinion, the entire draft reformer law would be weaker or even stupefying. This is a central point of the role that the new Senate would play, among other things, at a stage in which harmonisation and synergy between the different bodies, in the context of globalisation that we live in, is fundamental, because supranational institutions and Europe deal with matters that very often fall into practice on the territorial communities and very often it is the regions that tackle them at the legislative level. On all these issues, we call for amendment 10,195 to be accepted with a positive opinion by the rapporteurs of the Government and approved by colleagues in this House. [[Applause from Senator Longo Fausto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u117	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 10.197, which, in line with the amendment that was adopted the other day with the secret vote on the functions of the Senate, addresses the issue of the essential levels of assistance and the legislative function exercised collectively by the two chambers: essential levels of assistance concerning civil and social rights that must be guaranteed throughout the national territory. It is an amendment that has been signed by several representatives of Groups who are members of the majority; it is not an amendment by a political group, and that says a lot about the importance of the matter. I know perfectly well that there are objections to consistency with the overall text of the reform, but I would like to challenge this argument, because - as you know - the right to health is the only one that the Constitution defines as fundamental. So if it's a fundamental right, I think it's very important that the two chambers take care of it together. We have experienced years of separation between the State and the Regions about people's lives: we are talking about essential levels of assistance and therefore about how health by law, enshrined in the Constitution, becomes daily practice. And we cannot continue to have a fracture between regions that do not communicate with the State, in which systems of neocentralism exist, on the one hand, and a state that proceeds on its own, on the other. If we do not want the Senate of the Republic to become essentially a State-Regions Conference, but we want to provide it with strong functions, as I believe the work of the Commission and the work of the House have done so far, I believe that it is essential that the Senate should also be able to deal with this matter, and must deal with it with the level and understanding of what health value in our country means today, which is not a purely economic value, but is a value made of respecting the needs and needs of citizens. What is a Constitution for if not primarily to redefine the pact and respect among citizens? And health, as they say, is a right that must be first place. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u118	Mr President, Senators, representatives of the Government, I would like to briefly explain, in line with what Senator De Biasi has already said, Amendment 10,199 proposing the addition of point (m) of the second paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, among the matters which are collectively exercised, as a legislative function, by the House and the Senate. What does point (m) mean? Point (m) of Article 117 of the Constitution states that the essential levels of benefits relating to the civil and social rights of persons must be defined and must be guaranteed throughout the national territory under uniform conditions. I believe that a first important thing is to remind us that this reform that we are trying to achieve can be closer to the understanding of citizens, if, in important matters, that we reserve to the functions performed collectively, that is, high functions and also concerning the Senate, we include not only electoral legislation, but also what citizens feel daily as their rights, as issues on which legislation must be exercised: I am referring to civil and social rights, which not only mean health, but also social policies and education. Why ask for the Senate to express itself on these issues? Firstly, because these are important rights, which, secondly, as such, must be removed from the decision of a single Chamber, which will also be elected with a majority system that is probably very much pushed; thirdly, because in the Senate, as we are defining it, regardless of who can share this choice more or less, the competences of the institutions that will then have to implement those levels will be represented: who, therefore, better than a Senate, which has within it the representations of the territorial authorities that will have to implement it, can contribute to the definition of the essential levels of assistance and civil and social rights? In line with what was done a few days ago and with what Senator De Biasi said, I really ask you to bear in mind that this issue affects the sensitivity of all citizens and is not just a legislative technicalism on which we must decide. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u119	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,230, which was first signed by Mr Casson, which calls for the competence of the two-camera authorities on the laws implementing Article 21 of the Constitution, on freedom of the press. Let us be serious: in this country, freedom of the press as such is not in danger, but it must be said that information has been suffering for a long time for its relationship with politics. The reason is historical: we had prestigious newspapers, but they were fragile because they were mainly read by the ruling class; then came party newspapers and counter-information sheets; a misconceived idea of pluralism meant that the public radio and television service attributed its main news to the three main parties of that time; finally, a publisher became a politician and Premier. The free information, in the last twenty or thirty years, has been continuously pulled for the jacket by politics, have been attributed belongings, and some have made a career Attributing them to each other. The situation has deteriorated considerably over the last 20 years, when we have surreptitiously moved from a form of parliamentary government to a form of premiere, because the Premier tends to see information as a possible brake on his reformer momentum. It has happened with Berlusconi, but it is also happening with the current President of the Council, who considers editorialists like professors, newspapers like unions: intermediate bodies that hold back his reformist effort. So I ask myself, and I ask you, what is the point of assigning the powers of freedom of the press to a single Chamber elected with a majority law, in which the Premier will have strict control of the majority? The Senate, even if it is not what I would have liked, elected by direct universal suffrage, should have proportional representation. That is why it is important that it has these competences: keep in mind that the next Premier could be a politician for whom there is no difference - he says - between Napolitano and Pinochet.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u120	Since Senator Azzollini has asked to speak, the Presidency recalls that Senator Azzollini's amendments 1.1926 and 1/2004, originally referred to in Article 1, have been set aside pending their rewording in order to be able to refer them to Article 10. I call Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u121	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for pointing out the question of the amendments tabled to Article 1. We had already discussed this subject and discussed it in this article. I would like to explain my amendments as a whole, because everyone has only one logic, which is to introduce among the matters on which the Senate legislatively expresses the rules on coordination of public finance, harmonisation of public budgets and the tax system. First of all, if you will allow me, I give an answer to the question posed by Senator Carraro. The fact that the budget is voted on in England without the possibility of amending it does not concern these amendments, for a clear reason. I do not question the methods of presentation and voting in the Chambers: it could well be presented as inemendable to the House and the Senate. Another issue that does not concern the choice that the constitutional legislator makes now is to give the budgetary laws their current connotation. I would like to point out that the proposed rules do not relate to the budget law, but to the matters I have mentioned. I am trying to explain why, in my opinion, they need to be included in the legislative power of the Senate. As far as the harmonization of public budgets is concerned, Mr President, there are a number of legislative decrees in this area right now. It is well known that one of the problems we have with Europe is that of non-communicability between the budgets of the various institutional levels. It is well known that even the basic principles of accounting are different in the various budgets. One of these budgets, of which we understand the importance, is that of ASL. The balance sheets of ASLs in Italy are over 100 billion euros in size. Being able to claim that a law sets out to change the methods or principles for accounting the balance sheets of ASLs, Regions, INPSs and other public bodies without the House dealing with ASLs and health can intervene is a non-logical situation. Paradoxically, in fact, it could be argued immediately that the ASL budgets go from the principle of competence to the principle of cash or from the principle of financial competence to the principle of economic competence, suddenly, without the ASLs, through the Chamber of Autonomies, being able to intervene. Frankly, it seems like an illogical situation to me. Mr President, you know that I am for the elective Senate and for a different model from what is emerging, but because this is what it is, it seems impossible that these bodies should not intervene in the harmonisation of public budgets. The second point I would like to touch on is the tax system. Here again, let me give an immediate example: IRAP is a tax which, as is well known, is used to finance the health system. Well, if the budget approved by one House eliminates IRAP and shifts resources elsewhere to finance the health system, I understand that, but let us suppose that there are two other options. The first is that it increases the IRAP; the second is that it completely or partially eliminates the IRAP and does not fill those resources with other, thus transferring the burden to the Regions, without the Chamber of Autonomies being able to intervene: it is easy to understand that it is not logical. Then we can discuss, as we have done before, and I ask the rapporteurs whether they intend to take into consideration also forms of mediation of my position, but let them gather the spirit of it, otherwise I do not know how it comes out. Finally, Mr President, there is the reference to coordination of public finance. This rule is exactly the daughter of the previous one that is being discussed. If the reference to the coordination of public finance was born mainly with our integration into the European Union, and therefore with the need for debt sustainability and harmonisation of public finance for European constraints and commitments, it is incredible that a House which in fact occupies a large part of the Italian public budgets does not deal with it. All the amendments, more or less, with varying techniques, have the same logic. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask that the rapporteurs, also in relation to what you have pointed out on time about the function of the Senate, which we discussed and which we have placed at the time of the debate on this article, take into account all these assessments in order to make a proposal to be put to the attention of this House. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u122	Before concluding the explanation of the amendments, I owe a reply to Senator Casson, who has returned to the subject of the secret vote, asking for further consideration. As I have already made clear in the eligibility of secret votes, the Presidency has carried out an overall assessment of the requests, the number of which was particularly high (even about 920). In view of the fact that the amendments referred to in Article 10 essentially concern the procedure for the approval of laws and not the powers of functions proper to the constitutional body, the Presidency does not consider that it would change the judgment of inadmissibility previously expressed; it therefore confirms that the vote of the amendments referred to by Senator Casson will take place by clear scrutiny, except for the deletion amendment 18.1, the secret ballot of which has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u123	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,227, which proposes to maintain the guarantee of religious freedom under the bicameral regime for a criterion of institutional wisdom, against the legislative radicalism that is always connected to the majority systems. In fact, those who win the elections have the right to rule, but they cannot spend the majority prize to impose a partisan ideology, a religious belief or a religious hostility, otherwise Republican guarantees are affected. Is that too much fear? I believe not, it is enough to reflect on our republican history: in the first Republic, with proportional regime, there has been a long phase of serenity and religious peace, overcoming the historical conflict between believers and non-believers; in the second Republic, with a majority system even uncertain and confused, a tension has been determined in many moments on this point, so much so that we have spoken of a bipolarism with an ethical-religious tendency. Now, if we strengthen the majority system, this could get worse. From my point of view, the Senate of Warranties solves this problem at the root, but I wonder if the same caution should not have those who support the Senate of Self-Governments. I have heard different meanings of this Senate of the autonomouss in the debate; I can summarize them in a low way and in a high way: a low way that basically considers the presence of the Regions in the Senate as a protection of the competences of Title V (a kind of State-Regions Conference in assembly form); a high way that instead conceives the representation of the territories as integration of political representation. And it is this high path that corresponds to Mortati's constitutional inspiration. I believe that in this high street there is room for a competence of the Senate of the autonomous also in the guarantee of religious freedom, firstly because it is closely linked to the constitutional principles. Article 19 of the Constitution, which specifically speaks of it, is clearly referred to in Article 3, where equality is precisely defined as the absence of discrimination in the language and religion. Even more, religious freedom in our Constitution refers not only to the freedom of persons, but also to freedom in the relationship between the Church and the State in Article 7, in what has been the most troubled moment of the debate in the constituent Assembly. Finally, there is a consideration that concerns our times: there is a return of the sacred, as a wide literature tells us, but of a sacred that corresponds to identity forms of politics, and therefore expresses itself in religious conflict. We see it at an international level, where religions are the alphabet of conflicts of foreign policy, and we see it also within us, in a society that becomes increasingly multicultural and multi-religious and in which social tensions often express themselves through the false consciousness of religious faith. In these contemporary societies the theme of religious freedom becomes even more precious and we should therefore have even more attention to this subject, putting it in a bicameral relationship, so that there can be no legislative radicalism than those who win the elections, but there is that institutional weight and wisdom that is necessary when dealing with fundamental rights and reasons for institutional balance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u124	You have the right to do so. In the meantime, I would like to say goodbye to the Senator-Council, who I see has recovered and is among us. I'm glad he's restored. [[Applause.]] Please, Senator Divina. Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr. President, can you have that offensive sign removed from the North League desks, please? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorry, I don't see him from here. I don't see the sign. Mr PUGLISI (PD). It's on Senator Candiani's desk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't see any sign from here. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Senator Candiani, please. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] If it is for the photographers and not for the House, then more importantly, take it up. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] He says he's been there since last week. Okay. Please, Senator Divina.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u125	Mr President, we had to begin the examination of the constitutional reform bill by Article 13, or at least so it seemed, because we owed it to the co-rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, who we thought today was not able to be in this House, first of all because of his physical conditions, which we know, and then because of the moral conditions that we can imagine. I believe that your presence in this House is an example of which few men are capable. For this reason the League commends him, as well as expressing condolences for his family affairs. [[Applause.]] The presence of Senator Calderoli has led to the beginning of the work of Articles 10, 11 and 12, which we consider to be among the most important and heavy, speaking of law proceedings, legislative initiatives and popular referendums. This has almost forced us to review our positions and decide to come to this House and discuss these matters. It was certainly not the Government's proposals that changed our mind, or rather the government's non-proposals, that could have sought, since the Constitution of the Republic, a minimum of dialogue with all oppositions. But if the government is convinced to bring home a reform by majority blows, we extend our arms. There has never been a government that changes the Constitutions, being these, moreover, parliamentary matter, less with the only dialectic of the muscle arm. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] It is not even the times that make us stay in this House, because they are absolutely not acceptable: we could say that they have been cut off in an almost abominable way. Let us think only of the fact that an average Constitution lasts thirty years: to compress a debate, leaving out a party like the North League, which has made parliamentary reform and reform one of its main points of work and political commitment, giving only an hour and 28 minutes of time for discussion, at the end of which we can no longer speak in this House, is a way that is not appropriate to a democratic and parliamentary system. The strong temptation at this point would be to say: Vote for it yourself: it will be your Constitution. We will decide how to act on the final vote, we will see the development of these central articles. However, we have decided to return to the Chamber and to debate for those few minutes that will be granted to us, having run out of time. I am speaking of concession, because it seems to us that rights are now something of a different time and no longer appropriate to this Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Au and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u127	Do you want to speak about timing or rights? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). For the quick explanation of some of the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris has already spoken in illustration. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). He illustrated one. I would like to explain Amendments 10,95, 10,101 et seq. As you have seen in the course of these days, we have chosen to be here and to explain here and not elsewhere our point of disagreement with this reform that is now taking place. Since we have no intention and desire to make any Aventine of any kind, at least we ask you to give us a quick explanation of some of the amendments which we consider to be qualifying. I refer, in particular, to those I have referred to on the legislation which, in our opinion, the House and the Senate should exercise together on a number of issues which we consider to be very important. In fact, we are always concerned about the same issue, namely that with the mechanism that is being determined it becomes very concrete not the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, but the masked construction of a monocameralism. I think that the debate that is taking place in this House on this issue is unfortunately largely insufficient. We are building in our country a constitutional architecture with which we will probably relate over the next few decades, in which we do not happen that we simply surpass the perfect bicameralism, taking away from the Senate the possibility of expressing trust to the Government (which, I insist, on which we all agree because probably inside this Chamber there is even a unanimity), but we also deprive the Senate of the possibility of expressing an element of consensus or dissent in the process of forming the law on a series of issues of great importance. We think that this is a serious mistake, because it ends up calling into question those fundamental elements that concern exactly the guarantees, even the guarantees for minorities, moreover in presence, as it will probably be (of course we hope not) of a very majority electoral law. We think that this issue will be a problem in the coming years. You will see that this reform that you are voting by majority during these hours will be forced to review it very quickly over the coming years, when the knots that a part of this Parliament is stressing during these days and during these hours will come to the comb and demonstrate that, as has been repeatedly called for by the opposition forces during these weeks, much more attention and much more capacity to build a common consensus were needed on these specific nodes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u128	Amendment 10,402 is of common sense. The bill provides that the future Senate may ask to examine a law of the House within ten days of its approval. However, there is a risk that, in the face of a Senate that meets occasionally, perhaps once a month, these ten days are spent without the Senate, not having met during this period, not having had the opportunity to ask for the examination of a measure approved by the House. Therefore, the amendment envisages leaving the time of ten days, that is until the first useful session of the Senate, to examine the drafts of law and thus be more effective in the activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u129	The remaining amendments are set out. Senator Finocchiaro, as I said earlier, is waiting for a reformulation of amendment 1.1926. I would like to know the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u130	Mr President, as I suggested at the beginning of the debate, Senator Calderoli and I would need a margin of time to look into the issues relating to Articles 10, 11, 12 and 15, which are crucial articles in the text (Senator Divina recalled this just now). In the last few days we have not had the opportunity to confront each other for the reasons that are known to all. Therefore, we would also apologise to those Members who have tabled their amendments to Article 10 (these are of course issues that we will all resume in the course of the debate), and we would like to move on to the examination of Article 13, and then deal with Articles 14 and 16, and then on to Rule 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u131	If there are no comments on this, we shall proceed to the examination of Rule 13 and its amendments. We will resume the examination of Article 10 when the rewording that has been pointed out to us as essential will be available.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u134	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Finocchiaro has said something else. He said that the rapporteurs needed to look into some of the issues and not simply, as he said now, to reformulate an amendment. So you're beginning to respect the things others say and report them very accurately. Besides... president. The amendment was put aside to allow for a rewording by the rapporteurs. VOLPI (LN-Aut). You learn to let the senators speak first. So, allow me. Moreover, Senator Finocchiaro, with extreme correctness and intelligence, asked her at the beginning of the session to examine this article later and to anticipate the others. Another time, as always, he wanted to do his own thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Volpi, I didn't do my thing, I followed the order of the amendments, and now there is a request from Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u137	Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, apart from the elective procedures of the Senate, Article 10 is a bit at the heart of the problem: the legislative function. I believe that there are proposals on the table that can finally indicate a solution that largely satisfies this House and on which we are working. It is therefore worth experimenting with every attempt and every deepening by passing, as suggested by my colleague Finocchiaro, to the other articles, so as to succeed, perhaps in an evening space, in finding definitive solutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u138	If this request had come before, we would certainly have started, even in its absence, from Article 13. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr Calderoli, rapporteur. Mr President, don't answer me that, because then I regret being here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely, for Christ's sake. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u139	Mr President, I am against, or I am calling for, all amendments to be withdrawn, except on Amendment 13.29 by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u140	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u141	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u142	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u143	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 13.4 and Amendment 13.5 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'Senate of the Republic'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 13.8 and Amendment 13.9. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "approved." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 13.10 and Amendment 13.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'members'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 13.12 and Amendment 13.13. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.21, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 13.21 and Amendments 13,22 to 13,25 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.27.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u146	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 13.27.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u147	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.28 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.29 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.30 and 13.31 are foreclosed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.32, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words 'until then'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 13.32 and Amendment 13.33 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.34 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.35, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.36, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.37, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.38, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.39 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.40, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.41 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.42, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.43, which is identical to Amendment 13.44.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u150	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 13.44.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u153	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Amendment 13.43 is also withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u154	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.45, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.46, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.47, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.48, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'members'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 13.48 and Amendment 13.49 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.50, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.51 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u155	I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 14, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u156	The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u157	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1, which is identical to Amendment 14.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u158	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u159	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Campanella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.9 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, until the following word is inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 14.9 and Amendments 14.10 and 14.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.14, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.16, tabled by Senator Longo Eva and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 15 is set aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u160	With the exception of amendment 16.16 by the rapporteurs, on which the opinion is in favour, I would ask the authors to withdraw all the other amendments tabled in Article 16, otherwise the opinion would be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u161	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u162	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.1, which is identical to Amendment No 16.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u163	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u164	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, identical to amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.4 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.5 tabled by Senator Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.7 tabled by Senators Tarquinio and D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.6 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words " (a) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16.8 and Amendments 16.9 to 16.15 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.16 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 16.18, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 16.22, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words'(b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 16.23 and Amendments 16.24 to 16.27 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, to the words "Republic which," "Republic." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16.29 and Amendment 16.30 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.31 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.32 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.33, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words " (c) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remainder of Amendment 16,33 and Amendments 16,34 and 16,35 are not included. Amendments 16.36, 16.37 and 16.38 are also foreclosed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.39, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 16.40, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "First Chapter." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16.40 and Amendments 16.41 to 16.46 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.47, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.48, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.49, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.50, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.51 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.52 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.53 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.55, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.56, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.57, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.58 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.59, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.60, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.61, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.62, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.63, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.64, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16.65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.66, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.67, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.68, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.69, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.70, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.71 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.72, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.73, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.74, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.75, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.76, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.77, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.78 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.79, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.80 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.81 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.82, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.83 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.84, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.85, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.86, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.87, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.88, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.89, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.90, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.91 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.92, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.93 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.94, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.95, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.96 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.97, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.98, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.99, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.103, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.105 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.106, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16.107 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.108, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.109 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,110, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,111, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,112, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment No 16,113, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,114 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,115, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,116, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,117, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 16,118 to 16,125 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,126, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,127, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.128, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.129, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,130, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,131, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,132 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,133, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16,134 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,135, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,136, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.137, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.138, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.139, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.140, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.141, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.142, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,143, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment No 16,144, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,145, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16,146, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.147, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.148, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.149, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.150, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). CRIMI (M5S). Get that paper ball off! [[Senator Crimi points to the government desks. Comments from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,151, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,152, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,153, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16,154, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.155, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.156, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,157, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.158, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,159 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,160, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u167	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is not in my style, but can we ask the Undersecretary to remove the ball from the hole, so that he votes like everyone else? [[Ironic applause from undersecretary Vicars.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u168	Amendment16.161 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16 162, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16,163, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16,164.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u171	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, one concern: has the kangaroo been hurt? He doesn't jump anymore? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, no, it makes little jumps. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Baby, be careful, kids! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u172	Thank you for interrupting monotony and lightening the tension. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,164, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,165, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.166, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.167, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,168, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16,169, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,170, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,171, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.172, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.173, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,174, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,175, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,176, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,177, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,178, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,179, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,180, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,181, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.182, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,183 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.184, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,185, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.186 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.187, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16,188 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,189 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,190, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,191, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,192, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,193, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment No 16,194, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,195, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,196, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,197, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,198, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.199, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.201, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16.202, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,203, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,204, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.205, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16.206, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.207, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,208, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.209, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,210, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,211, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,212, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.213 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.214, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u175	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendments 16,216 and 16,217.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u178	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I call for Amendments Nos 16,216 and 16,217 to be taken into account and for the vote to be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u181	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I would ask you to add my signature to the same amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u182	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 16,215 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,216, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,217, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, withdrawn by the proposers and belonging to Senators Candiani and Crosio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.218, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.219, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,220, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,221, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.222, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.223, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,224, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,225, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,226, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,227, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,228, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,229, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,230, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 16,231, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,232, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,233, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,234, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,235, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,236 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,237 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,238, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,239 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.240 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.241, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 16,242 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,243, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,244, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,245, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,246, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.247, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.248, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,249, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,250, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.251, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.252, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.253, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 16.254, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,255, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,256, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.257, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.258, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,259, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16,260, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.261, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 16.262, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.263, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.264, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.265, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,266 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16.267, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16,267 and Amendments 16,268 to 16,274 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,275 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16.276, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16,276 and Amendments 16,277 to 16,290 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.291, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.292 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16,293, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "the following" are inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 16,293 and amendments 16,294 to 16,299 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,300, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,301 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16.302, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 16,302 and amendments 16,303 to 16,308 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.309, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,310 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment No 16,311, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 16,311 and amendments 16,312 to 16,315 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,315a, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.316, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,317 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16.318, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 16,318 and amendments 16,319 to 16,325 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.326, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.327, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.328 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 16.329, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "in article". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16,329 and Amendments 16,330 to 16,334 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 16,335, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "the end of the amendment." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 16,335 and Amendments 16,336 to 16,338 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,339, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,340, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,341, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,342, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,343, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 16,344, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,345, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,346, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,347, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,348, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,349, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,350, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,351, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,352, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 16 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u185	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would just like to correct the previous vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u186	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 17.9 and I repeat what I have just said, namely that the division of legislative powers between the Chamber's exclusive competence and sharing with the Senate is a salient feature of this reform proposal, but the excessive concentration of legislative power in the House turns into a dangerous simplification. If the reserve of law in the matter of individual rights is affected by the changes of the legislative procedure (because the law is not only an act, but also a procedure) then the resolution of the state of war and the conferral of powers relative to the Executive is a law of utmost importance because it puts the democratic order to the test, places the premises for the suspension of the rights and the derogation to the ordinary laws in force. I believe that this is an area on which both rooms should typically deliberate. That is why I have tabled this amendment to establish the fully bicameral legislative procedure for the state of war and I call on the House to approve it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u187	Mr President, I withdraw amendment 17.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u188	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u189	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments tabled in Article 17; otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u190	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u191	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 17.1. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would ask Members to resume their seats. We must proceed to the votes. Recreation's over. AIROLA (M5S). We're a schoolgirl now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u194	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to sign Amendment 17.2 and also make an explanation of vote. That the House of Deputies should release the state of war and give the Government the necessary powers, excluding the other House seems meaningless to me because it still represents the territories, unless it is a disguised declaration, of a Senate in fact completely deposed of all meaning that designed. If this is not the case, I do not see why the Senate can be excluded from the possibility of deciding on such an important matter that concerns first of all the territories, because the nation is sum of the territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u197	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, first of all I do not see why Senator Mussini subscribes to Amendment 17.2 and not to Amendment 17.5 which is the same. Other than that, I agree with what Senator Mussini said. I do not understand why only the House of Deputies should take part in the resolution of the state of war and then delegate the government. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to provide for the participation of the senators, even if the next ones will be depleted of some of their powers. I think this is really important. In fact, when it comes to a state of war, I think it's best if more heads decide and agree on what to do and where to go: the less we are and the less democracy there is; the more people there are to make a decision - even minority parties have something to say - the better, especially in a serious situation like that now described.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u198	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, up to the words "Article 17 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 17.1 and Amendments 17.2, 17.3 and 17.5. are therefore excluded. Amendment 17.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.6 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 17.7 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, until the word "confers." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 17.7 and amendment 17.8. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.9 tabled by Senator Ricchiuti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.10, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, identical to amendment 17.11, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.12 tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.13 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.14, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, identical to amendment 17.15, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.16, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.17, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.18, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.19, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.20, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 17.21, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators, up to the words "The Senate." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 17.21 and Amendment 17.22 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 17.24, tabled by Senator D'Anna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 17.25, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, up to the words "heard the Senate." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 17.25 and amendments 17.26 to 17.29 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.30, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.31 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u199	Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 18.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u200	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u201	Mr President, I would like to confirm the request for a secret vote on Amendment 18.1 and I reserve the right, in an explanation of vote, to explain why amnesty and indult, which affect personal freedom, are important issues which should be assigned to the competence of the two chambers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u202	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed with a secret vote on Amendment 18.1 and identical amendments 18.2 to 18.6 except on 18.5 which has been withdrawn. The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u203	Mr President, on amendments 18.1 to 18.6 the rapporteurs are back in the Chamber, while I am against the rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u204	The Government refers to all the amendments tabled to Rule 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u205	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1, which is identical to Amendments 18.2, 18.3, 18.4 and 18.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u207	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u208	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I will be very brief in expressing first of all my satisfaction that the rapporteurs and the Government have returned to the House on a sensitive subject, and I will now explain why it is. With this deletion of our amendment, on 18.1, we want to maintain the current competence of both the House and the Senate. Why is the theme of amnesty and indult particularly delicate? This is stated in the Constitution itself, in Article 79, at a time when a two-thirds majority is required. I would therefore say that it is important that this competence and this majority remain by constitutional definition. The merit is even more important, however, because it must be said that the theme of amnesty and indult concerns the proper function of the Chambers and makes a reference to personal freedom, on which it directly affects. It concerns not only the freedom of people, but also the negative influence they might have on the offended parties, thus on all sides within the process. It is about the criminal trial and Parliament, a few years ago, fought to incorporate the rules on fair trial into Article 111 in the Constitution, believing that a fair trial should be guaranteed at all its various stages, because it has to do with the most important aspects of the freedom of the person, such as his good repute and limitations on external powers. However, there is another important aspect which must be considered and which cannot be touched on only by a House, but must be dealt with by Parliament as a whole, and it is that of the right of defence, Article 24 of the Constitution. This is another fundamental right, and it is appropriate that Parliament as a whole should always be able to assess it to the full, so that no one wants to limit it. Finally, I would like to touch on one last aspect, concerning the security of the nation as a whole and of the territories, cities, our countries and our countryside. When action is taken with measures of amnesty and indult, the aspects I have mentioned must certainly be considered, but also - to the very end - the subsequent aspects of safety. For this reason, which I would call additional and conclusive, it is okay for security aspects to be evaluated by the House of Deputies, but they must also be evaluated by the territorial authorities and their representatives, who should go and compose the new Senate in its configuration. I would therefore conclude by pointing out that in this case and in this Article 79 there is a summary of everything I have mentioned: personal freedom, direct defence, criminal proceedings and the protection of society and territories. I shall therefore vote in favour of amendment 18.1. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u211	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask Senator Casson to accept my signature of his amendment 18.1. CASSON (PD). Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u214	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that the indication of vote given by the Democratic Party Group is in the sense of maintaining the text voted by the Commission. Mr Casson, who has therefore spoken in dissent from the Group, says well when he says that amnesty and indult are very sensitive and very particular issues, so much so that the Constitution itself provides for different majorities and procedures; but criminal law itself is a very delicate and particular issue, like so many other things that have to do with rights and politics are fundamental and particular issues. The fact that we are defining a reform that leads to the competence of the Chamber of Deputies everything that has to do with political assessments confirms us in our orientation to leave out the Senate. Nor can the discourse of the territory be valid: our Group in the past opposed the claim made by the territorial authorities that concerned the control of the territory by organizations. All this does not make sense, the territories are one thing, but criminal law, and even more amnesty and indult, are something that has to do with the State in its entirety. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Quagliariello and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u217	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to know whether Senator Casson also allows me to sign his amendment 18.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the subscription, Senator Casson? CASSON (PD). Yes, I accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u220	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to have the cards that a senator here does not match removed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask the Secretary Senators to exercise careful control, so that there is no card without the corresponding senator's presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u223	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have taken inspiration from the statement made by Senator Lo Moro. In the Commission we discussed this Article 18 and in the end, after a close debate, we felt that the text that came out of it is the one that guarantees the greatest balance. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group is confident that the House will also be able to vote on the text as approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u226	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, For Italy, I am voting against amendment 18.1, while we are in favour of approving the text which was adopted in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u229	Mr Quegliariello (NCD). Mr President, there is no doubt that the issues evoked by Senator Casson are of fundamental importance. The logic of this bicameralism is not to make bicameral matters particularly important, but to differentiate between a political representation, which is the responsibility of the Chamber of Deputies, and a functional representation, which is the responsibility of the Senate. That is the logic of the system that drives this reform. This is the reason why we believe that any balance should be found in the systemic construction and not within this Senate, which instead must respond to the logic for which we composed it in a certain way and attributed certain functions to it. That is why we shall be voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u232	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are voting in favour of both Amendment 18.1 and Amendment 18.2 and other amendments on this same subject, because we believe that such particular, sensitive and sensitive issues concerning freedom, the act of clemency and amnesty should be submitted to the decision of both chambers. This applies in particular to matters relating to personal freedom. It is clear that our Constitution provides for the guarantee - or the non-guarantee - of the two-thirds majority, on the contrary, it is very clear, but I believe that, even more so, it should be a procedure under both chambers, so including the Senate. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u234	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u235	MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, as is also apparent from the fact that I am one of the promoters of amendment 18.1, I am speaking in dissent from my Group. I shall vote in favour of this amendment, not because of the fact that it is an obstacle to the desire to differentiate the two Chambers on matters which are also particularly discriminatory, but rather because there are matters which by their very nature are the attribution of all the constitutional bodies that pronounce themselves, as the text of the reform itself states, as a liaison body between the State and the territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u238	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, I declare the Italian Citizen's Choice Group's vote against the proposal contained in Amendment 18.1, because we do not believe it has any political and institutional sense to assume that the second Chamber should find its justification in a counterweight to the first, either explicitly, with the vote of confidence, or implicitly, by widening the area of bicameral laws. The sense of bicameralism that we are trying to build and propose is to make the second chamber a place of connection with the territories, completing and correcting the design begun with the reform of Title V: nothing to see, therefore, with the participation of the second chamber to a decision of this type.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u239	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u241	Orellana (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I wanted to make the following point. I believe that these laws of amnesty and indult nevertheless fall into the case law of the new article 70 of the Constitution, so the Senate, within ten days, may ask to review the law approved by the House. However, this is only a hypothesis because Article 70 (referred to in Article 10 of this draft law) has not yet voted on it. So, perhaps this consideration should be made. I am one of the signatories to amendment 18.1, but it is a great discrimination for me to know whether the Senate will be able to deal directly with the matter, as provided for in Article 79 of the Constitution in its original wording, or whether it will be the new Article 70 that provides for the role of that institution. That is the consideration I make for the benefit of all. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u242	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u244	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I declare my vote against, although with a sense of laceration, because counterweights are important. Of course, as Senator Maran has already pointed out very well, the enlargement of the area of bicameral laws, in itself, is not a bad thing, but it must be done when it makes sense and the sense must be obtained of the functions that we want to attribute to the Senate. If we want to increase its politicity, this is clearly an amendment that goes in the direction of increasing the political nature of the Senate; if we want to increase its territoriality, as I think it is difficult to do, this amendment goes in the opposite direction and, going in the opposite direction, comes with a whole series of consequences (the more political it is, the more elective it must be, and so on). For these reasons my vote, albeit with some internal suffering, will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u247	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I would like to clarify the voting procedure. Since this amendment is entirely deletion of the article, is the amendment or the retention of the article to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u248	The amendment is put to the vote: we vote for the retention of the article only if there is only one deleterious amendment. Since other amendments have been tabled to the article, the deleterious amendment will be voted on first and then all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr President. In addition, for the other amendments on Article 18, we call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u250	Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 18.1 tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendments 18.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 18.3 tabled by Senator Minzolini, 18.4 presented by Senator Compagnone and other senators, and 18.6 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot: [[Supporting 141 Contrari 143 Absent 3]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Pepe's comments.]] Amendment 18.5 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u253	Milo (GAL). Mr President, I withdraw all the amendments I have tabled to Rule 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u254	We take note of that, Senator Milo. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.7 tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.8, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.10. is therefore precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u257	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, I withdraw all the amendments I have tabled to Rule 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u258	I take note of that, Senator Comrade. Amendment 18.9 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.11, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.12 has been withdrawn. (19.19) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.13, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.14 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.15, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.16 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.17, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 18.18, 18.19, 18.20 and 18.21 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.22, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.23, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 18.24 and 18.25 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 18.26, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators, up to the words of the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 18.26 and Amendment 18.28 are therefore excluded. Amendment 18.27 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.30 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.31, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.32 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.33, tabled by Senator Minzolini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 18.34 and 18.35 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u259	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u260	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u261	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u262	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u263	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 19.5 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.6 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.7 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.2, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Milo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 19.0.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "the first". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 19.0.3 and Amendments 19.0.4 and 19.0.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 19.0.8 tabled by Senator Minzolini, until the words 'of the Republic'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 19.0.8 and Amendment 19.09 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.10, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u264	Madam President, on this article we have tabled a number of amendments, the first of which is deleted, which are very much on the subject of the Senate proposal on which we have been working all these months and which we have defined as an elective Senate of guarantee and control. It is clear, therefore, that, precisely because of our reasoning, we have always considered - this indicates our amendments - that the exclusive powers of inquiry were absolutely necessary and the prerogative of that Senate: it is precisely in the mechanism of relationship and in the difference of functions between the Senate and the House. Of course we agreed that the House had the confidence and other strictly exclusive competences; however, precisely in the idea that there should be a counterweight, if we really want to give meaning to the guarantee and control, this counterweight can only be in the other House, that is, in a Senate that we considered should be elected with the proportional system, precisely because it will no longer have the problem of giving confidence and therefore governability. All the more reason why we thought that all the powers of control over the government's work and the powers of inquiry should be the exclusive competence of the Senate itself, as is the case with the American Senate. For this reason we do not believe that Article 20, as formulated, can be accepted; the Senate is delegated the only possibility of carrying out investigations on matters of public interest concerning territorial autonomy. Instead, we believe that the powers of inquiry should be an exclusive function for the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u265	Madam President, overcoming the bicameralism of equality, and therefore trusting the House, was an opportunity to carry out an incisive reform of parliamentary controls, and would have allowed the Senate to be given the role of control, as it was freed from the vote of confidence, because this would have allowed a sound institutional dialectic. We are well aware, from experience, that all parliamentary control instruments are conditioned by the trust that the parliamentary majority establishes with the Government and this trust somehow weakens the critical capacity, control of the same parliamentary fora. Therefore, the overcoming of bicameralism, with the assignment of trust to the Chamber alone, would have allowed the Senate to give a very incisive power both in terms of parliamentary investigations and hearings in the case of appointments for public bodies, as we can see very well even in the American fictions that show us what penetrating functions of control the Senate can have in the face of choices that concern the large public bodies or the large public agencies. On the other hand, the solution adopted by the rapporteurs and the Commission to reserve control of the Senate only for the competences that are attached to Title V is not only reductive compared to the true reform that could have been done, but it is to some extent also contradictory. It is like saying that the Senate exercises control over the subjects referred to in Title V, that is, concerning the Regions: it is almost a perverse relationship between controller and controlled. This is a downward solution and for this reason I would like to stress the amendments signed by Mr Casson and Mr Cucchetti, which, on the other hand, take the proposal, which has also come from the Government, of overcoming a vote of confidence in the Senate in order to give the Senate these more penetrating powers of control.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u266	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u267	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u268	I give my assent to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u269	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.1, which is identical to Amendments 20.2, 20.3 and 20.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u270	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u271	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, identical to Amendments 20.2 tabled by Senator Mauro Giovanni and other Senators, 20.3 tabled by Senator Minzolini, and 20.4 tabled by Senator Mussini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.5 tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendment 20.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.7 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.8 tabled by Senator Cucchetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.9 tabled by Senator Cucchetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.11 tabled by Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.12 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.13 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.14, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.16 tabled by Senator Cattaneo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.17.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u272	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u273	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u274	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I just wanted to point out that we are in a country where it is very difficult to get answers. We talked about the Bologna massacre, which we commemorated in some way on August 2. Soon after, we remembered the massacre of Italicus. How many more could we remember? However, we have never had any answers. In fact, even on many other subjects, proposals have been made for investigations to be carried out, which could at least give a political response and could in any case involve representation in the research that citizens do, which is sad, painful and full of bitterness, precisely because they do not receive answers. It is significant that this remains a responsibility of all those who have been elected, who are here and who are still faced with this evidence. In fact, even if we have eliminated the representation of the whole nation, in fact, however, having not chosen the path of monocameralism, we wanted to create a Chamber that has its own specific representation, with more ties on the territory. I do not agree with the method, but this is the philosophy that has been adopted. It is really curious that this same theme has already been proposed. I have also proposed it again with other amendments to Article 10, which, however, has now been put aside. I believe that on these aspects we should be very attentive to what is being done, also with respect to the operations through which the Italian people want answers and wants everyone to compete to provide answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u275	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.17, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.21, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.22.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u278	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we withdraw Amendment 20.22 and, if the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government give a favourable opinion, we would turn it into an agenda where we consider whether we should reflect the proportion between the various groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u279	I call on the rapporteurs to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u280	Madam President, our perplexity is always the same, because we do not know how the Senate will be articulated within itself, whether it will respond to the logic of the traditional formation of parliamentary groups or rather to that of territorial groups. In this sense, we cannot give a favourable opinion on the agenda announced by Senator Bruno.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u281	Senator Bruno, you have heard the opinion of the rapporteur. BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u282	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u284	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am voting in favour of Amendment 20.23 and I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the words just spoken by the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, in explaining Amendment 20.22. His words are the plastic demonstration of the fact that you do not really understand what the Senate will be, as configured, that is if you vote by Region (which is not provided here), whether there will be Groups or - as we predict - there will be at most a party with some other small representation. Madam President, I wanted to stress this point, because we are really starting to set up a Senate that is really difficult to define, both in relation to the organisation and the configuration it will have. This is demonstrated by the fact that the rapporteur did not even want to accept an agenda on the proportion of the groups. It will obviously not have any kind of political representation. Since we will return to the transitional rule on the modalities of the first election, it will be understood that the exaltation that has been there in recent days on the fact that there would be pluralism has been absolutely denied at this time by this vote. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u285	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.23, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.24, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). At the request of some senators, I suspend the session for a few minutes. Work will resume at 8 p.m. immediately by vote. (The sitting was suspended at 7.46 p.m. and resumed at 8.10 p.m.) Colleagues, the sitting is resumed, but is again suspended, to give way to dinner, and will resume at 9 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 21.02 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u288	FINDING, rapporteur. Mr President, referring to the need I have mentioned earlier, since Mr Calderoli and I would need some time to work on and finalise the articles that are still to be examined, so that tomorrow we can have a quick, fluid examination of the remaining part of the text, I would ask you to suspend our work and update the sitting until tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., as per the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u289	Since there are no comments, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation, which is obviously made to enrich the reform with a contribution that can really solve a number of problems. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u290	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-08-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-300.ana.u291	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 6, 2014, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.03.
