ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u4	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported) I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Following the quorum check) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u8	PUGLIA (M5S). Good morning, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Good morning. PUGLIA (M5S). Reading the Minutes and the shorthand report of yesterday's sitting, I would like to make a correction with respect to something that is indicated and which happened yesterday, in order to specify more clearly. Yesterday I made a dissenting statement and then, in the end, I did not keep what I said in my statement. I would like to point out that - indeed - Mr Fattori has urged me to reconsider. So, I wanted to specify that. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u9	Senator Puglia, I have already called you to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I continue to insist even more on this. The dissenting vote must be such; otherwise you must warn, before you vote, that you disagree with your dissent, for a form of consistency even with yourself. PUGLIA (M5S). Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having said that, we take note of what you said. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to resume last night's sitting for a moment. At the end of each session the Assembly may decide, at the request of the President or at the request of the Government or of eight senators, to include in the calendar topics also not included in the program, where the conditions of Rule 55, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure exist. Moreover, pursuant to Rule 84 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, those who wish to make requests to the Assembly on items not on the agenda must first inform the President in writing of the subject of their speeches. At yesterday's afternoon sitting, neither the President nor the President-in-Office had been informed in advance of such a request. In giving the floor to the representatives of the groups who had legitimately asked to speak on this matter, the Presidency could not objectively contemporaneize the possibility of obtaining a vote and, on the other hand, the respect for the closing time of the sitting, which was scheduled for 22 p.m. from the agenda. As is well known, the time of conclusion of the proceedings is also set in order to allow each senator to participate in the work of the Assembly according to previously established and communicated times. It is therefore desirable for the Presidency to be placed in a position to organise the work of this House in an appropriate manner and in accordance with the various requirements also protected and guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u15	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I do not wish to comment on your remarks, but to point out that a proposal was also made by Senator Tonini last night concerning the hearing of the representative of the Government on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, asking that it be heard urgently by the Foreign Commissions meeting in the House and Senate. We will ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u18	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The Government accepts the proposal made by Senator Tonini and announces the willingness of Minister Mogherini to be present in the Commission to report at the beginning of next week, being this week prevented by international commitments. The Government therefore accepts the request and considers it appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u21	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, yesterday evening President Fedeli interrupted the work of this House by reaching closing hours, leaving to this morning an indication of vote on the proposal to amend the timetable and on the inclusion, which I asked on behalf of eight senators, of an urgent statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House. Without prejudice to the correct reference you made this morning to proper information from the Presidency, and stating that we will ensure that, on the next occasion, a prior communication to the Presidency on any requests such as the one you made yesterday evening arrives, it seems absolutely out of place to accept an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Commission when for several weeks there have been situations of serious international tension not only in the Gaza Strip, but also in an area close to the borders of the European Union. In this area a civil flight has been shot down and, just because perhaps the deceased do not belong to a superpower, something unacceptable is happening: bodies housed in railway wagons, procedures absolutely out of the norm of every civil country. It is not possible, from our point of view, for Minister Mogherini to report on the intentions of his Ministry and therefore of the Government in a press conference and to avoid the right and legitimate confrontation with this House, even if it were possible to do so only on the facts of Gaza. In fact, we would ask that there should finally be an information from the Ministry on what is also happening at the borders of the European Union. It is unacceptable, from my point of view, for the statement by my colleague from the PD who accused us yesterday of exploiting a situation. In this Parliament, never has an opposition exploited such a serious affair as is happening in the Gaza Strip and what has happened at the borders of Ukraine. It is unacceptable and my colleague should feel a sense of rebuke only when he says those words. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]] I would ask that we proceed as planned at the end of last night's proceedings, namely with the vote of the House on the request made, following what Vice-President Fedeli said by closing the sitting, namely that today there would be a minimum debate on our proposal and then a vote, as the Rules of Procedure provide. As I said, in such cases in the near future, with great punctuality, we will inform the Presidency of our requests well in advance. I hope that we can proceed in a way that is the best not for the continuation of the work, but it is the best to deal with what Minister Mogherini has not yet well framed: we want to know in this House how the Government will behave and why, so far, on two very serious events, it has been essentially silent. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u24	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I already supported yesterday's request to be able to vote for the inclusion on the calendar and I must say that I am very sorry to have to refer the accusation - this yes, entirely instrumental - to the sender to use the Palestinian issue to delay the timing or postpone our debate on constitutional reform. I say this very clearly to my colleagues in the Democratic Party: we can discuss everything, we can disagree on the issue of constitutional reform, but we cannot use these arguments. They cannot be used because my group asked the Foreign Minister not yesterday, but seven days ago to come to the House. Of course, we can also go to the Commission and it is provided for in the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, but, Mr President, discussions are taking place in all the parliaments of Europe in this House on the events that are taking place in Gaza. Also because there is not simply to be discussed what can be done in Gaza and what can be the role that Italy can play on the European continent on Gaza, on the end of the conflict or at least on the ceasefire. There is a political point that we want to put to the national Parliament, which concerns the issue of the withdrawal by our country of all military cooperation agreements with the Government of Israel. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups).]] This is a political point on which it is not enough simply to express the Commission, but I think that the national Parliament should express itself. It would therefore have been right and wise if the Foreign Minister, perhaps before he went to the Middle East, had listened to the parliamentary assemblies also in order to have, in his useful and important mission, a political framework of what the Italian Parliament thinks. We are faced with a dramatic and persistent emergency, it is very particular and wrong that while all the European Parliaments are debating it we are pretending nothing as if this problem, which is two hours away from us by plane, were light years away. We therefore support the request made by Senator Petrocelli. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u25	Colleagues, in an exceptional way, the Presidency intends to allow the vote on the request made at yesterday's afternoon sitting by Senator Petrocelli, given that we are insisting on the vote, that the request is supported and that there are also other proposals. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly the topic indicated by Senator Petrocelli. The Senate doesn't approve. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u26	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. Let us resume the examination of the articles of draft law No 1429, in the text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the examination of all the amendments tabled in Article 1 began.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u27	Mr President, there is no doubt that in the face of such a powerful, full-bodied and universally claimed (starting with the Government) reform of the Constitution, a fundamental element, which is probably not written in any book or order, is to determine the political and institutional conditions, the conditions of harmony, balance and confrontation from which the necessary high synthesis can arise, necessary to address issues and to prepare appropriate solutions at the level of the issues raised. Even in respect of roles, this work must be done first and foremost by those who have legitimately assumed this great responsibility or, in an absolutely unusual way, by the Government: not by the majority, but by the Government. A condition that had no precedent, even, but legitimate. Of course, therefore, we would not have expected those who took on this responsibility to begin, as we say in the football jargon, with interventions with a tense leg, silent those who oppose, those who ask perplexities and questions, or propose alternative solutions, with words belonging to a language not worthy of those who set themselves this extraordinary objective of reform of the Constitution. I've heard of saboteurs, of stones put in to derail the train of Italy. What do you mean? The confrontation with the opposition, with those who disagree, tries to place it at the level of the confrontation, culturally comparing the dissent to an operation of criminalization, equivalent to a role that makes it emerge from the confrontation itself. These are responsibilities. Even when we come up with proposals, through the instruments we have (I am referring to the amendments, of course), which are trying to be a litmus test. Do you want to reduce the number of parliamentarians? Not only do we not oppose it, but we raise it again. But let's try to do it with harmony, in a bicameral system that surpasses its balance and its perfection and that corresponds to the different needs of the two rooms that are however proposed. 9:54 p.m. (Following CERVELLINI). It is said, however, that this is not the subject of comparison, that the proposal is closed, armored. I believe that there is a "never said" in this House during the long debate that has taken place and which has appeared on the media, on the press and in electronic systems. But what we have heard these days are heavy claims. Mrs. Minister not twenty years ago, a year ago or at the beginning of this legislature, but on July 16, 2014 she released, without being denied or producing a denial, an interview with the daily newspaper "Avvenire" in which, with a reasoning that is not appropriate to the constituent and above all to the Minister who has these responsibilities, she replied on the non-secondary issue (not a comma inside the scaffolding of the reform of the Senate and Title V) of presidentialism: This isn't the time. The issue is not in the agreement and must not be dealt with now. This reform must now be completed. Then, once finally approved, we can put the subject of presidentialism on the agenda. Everything can be themed and no one here talks about coup d'état. We are talking about an irresponsibility on the part of those who (the Government in the person of the Minister of Delegations), while Parliament is dealing with a reform of this importance and scope, keeps out a subject by specifying: "for the time being." He accuses himself of being a saboteur. Well, let's think a little bit about it. In the meantime, it is said that we are setting up this operation, like multi-range missiles. Let us proceed with honesty, consistency and loyal behavior and not with exasperated tacticism. We are dealing with fundamental institutional issues with an unscrupulous tactical approach. We are not talking about a decree-law, albeit important, in which we can say "now we come to a result that allows to govern economic and social criticalities and then we take a second step." Here we are debating and approving, in an obstacle course with Olympic times, a reform that is supposed - as we are told - to last over the years. It should be a scaffold made of cohesiveness, even if in a powerful renewal action. I repeat, made of consistency. In the background, on the other hand, there is an element that cannot at all be considered avoid, separate, from what we are discussing. Otherwise they are not suspicious of an incredible twist from the point of view of relationships, counterweights and fundamental functions that rely on the Chambers, the Executive and the control bodies. As we have pointed out, this is already a matter of balance. We have cited examples that have not been contested. Moreover - and I conclude - we must consider the combined arrangement of this reasoning, represented by the so-called Italicum electoral system, already approved in the other branch of Parliament, and by the proposal to modify the functions and characteristics of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution in those ways. In the background it is stated - and excuse me if it is little - that tactically it is not the time, but as soon as we frame the result, as soon as we take the scalp and we can quickly show it... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini, I invite you to conclude your speech. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Certainly, Madam President. I was saying that the next day we deal with the issue of presidentialism. Correctness would like to avoid the lies that have been told and that are put in black and white in the proposal, when the Minister who holds these issues - and not a representative, perhaps authoritative, of the majority rather than of the Government - has publicly addressed, without being denied, a few days ago, such a matter. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u30	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry that President Grasso is not present at the moment, but my Group needs clarification. This morning we read in a newspaper article that undersecretary Pizzetti said there will be no secret votes. The first step is that undersecretary Pizzetti is not the President of the Senate. I would therefore like the President of the Senate to clarify this point. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Di Maggio]] I don't think these things should be done. Moreover, for the serenity of all - and, as you know, I am not easily controversial - I want to stress one aspect. We are already talking about the possible cut-off, but President Grasso must know - at this moment he is not present in the Chamber, but I ask President Faithful to tell him - that, if anyone decides to establish the leghold trap on the discussion of a draft law amending the Constitution, you will have to expect striking events. In fact, such a thing would be dramatic! On the other hand, when the undersecretary Pizzetti - to whom, even if he is a friend, I cannot avoid commenting - says in an interview that they are being equipped to reject the attack, I would like to understand who the attack is. I demand that the President of the Senate defend Parliament, who does not make attacks, but does his job. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] If the government hasn't figured it out, someone sitting in that chair has to make them understand! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u31	The Presidency will certainly inform President Grasso, carry out all the procedural checks and then, at the appropriate time, report back to the House. Let us continue our work with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u32	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I will speak mainly to explain amendment 01.18, which concerns Article 53 of the Constitution, and if I have time to deal with the amendment proposal 01.4. Amendment 01.18, which concerns the amendment of Article 53 of the Constitution, is our additional amendment. I remind all those present that Article 53 of the Constitution consists of two paragraphs. The first paragraph reads as follows: All are required to contribute to public expenditure on account of their contribution capacity. The second subparagraph instead states: The tax system is informed of progressiveness criteria. With our amendment, we are asking for three other features to be introduced, in addition to progressiveness, in relation to the tax system. These characteristics are clarity, simplicity and transparency. Progressivity, just to make a deepening, which is especially useful to me to understand the matter, is the characteristic of a tax whose rate increases as the base increases. The tax to be paid therefore increases more than proportionally with respect to the increase in the taxable amount, but I would like to remind you that not all taxes in the Italian system respect this principle of progressiveness. The IRPEF, for example, is a progressive tax on echelons, but other taxes such as IRES, corporate income tax, and the much-opposed IRAP, regional tax on production activities are not progressive. On the usefulness of the progressiveness of the tax system, there is much debate from the technical-political point of view and I would like to remind you, in this regard, that we have just held, last Sunday, a very important federal congress, during which our federal secretary and the important governors of the Lombardy and Veneto Regions have sent very important messages to this Government in order precisely to the constitutional bill we are discussing. Of course, the North League is partially satisfied with the Commission's work, but it absolutely puts on the table many other questions and many other requests which we hope the Government will not be deaf at all. In our congress, however, we also dealt with the serious problems facing families and businesses, such as the level of overtaxation, the problem of work, the problem of exodus, the problem of non-EU citizens. Among the many things we have discussed, we have also launched, for the next autumn, for the date of November 14, the day of the fiscal revolution, during which we will launch the proposal for a flat tax. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We can no longer think of moving forward with absurd levels of taxation, more than 65%. The level of corporate taxation is 20% higher than the European average. We can't go on like this anymore. Our businesses are dying and businesses are losing hundreds of thousands of jobs, so we are going to launch a flat tax proposal on that occasion that could start at a 20% level. When we enter specifically into our proposal for an amendment, we ask, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to introduce the criteria of clarity, simplicity and transparency which are the fundamental principles of which this Parliament and this Government are forgetting. Transparency is a general principle which must be inspired by all public administrations, with the aim of ensuring compliance with the principles of impartiality, efficiency and simplicity. Well, my fellow senators, dear representatives of the Government, let us be frank: is our legislation, not just the tax system, simple for our community? Absolutely not. Speaking of the tax system, it seems to you that it has a characteristic of simplicity, for example, the system of taxation on real estate, which over the last three years has seen a succession of acronyms and acronyms, which not only have sent in tilt and created difficulties for families and businesses, that if these taxes were simple they could go directly to pay them in the Commune or the treasury, but even have put in difficulties even great of accountants? Does it seem normal to you that in a country you pass within three years, with the Governments Monti, Letta and also Renzi, to acronyms such as ICI, IMU, TASI, IUC, TARSU, TARI and TRISE? [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] Do you see this clarity with regard to families and businesses? We representatives of the Northern League live on the territory - in this regard I am addressing above all our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who would demand that we work in this House from Monday to Friday, neglecting the whole territory - we frequent it and talk not only to the common people, to the "Sciura Maria" but above all to the entrepreneurs. These tell us that they are willing to pay taxes, even of significant figures, provided that the tax system is simple and above all constant. The current one is no longer tolerable. Our business system no longer tolerates [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] a tax system that changes every six months. It is a real shame, not worthy of a civilized country! Ours is an uncivilised country, and not only because of the exasperated level of taxation, which - I repeat - stands at over 65% and over 20% compared to the average of European taxation; it is also uncivilized because the tax system is absolutely a jungle and this is really unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Therefore, reforms must not be based on demagogy, dear Prime Minister Renzi. The scaffolding of a reform, especially if it is constitutional, must not be linked simply to the number of senators who no longer have to get the allowance, but to the awareness of fixing the many, many things that do not go to this country. We must make all reforms, including, above all, the constitutional bill, at the service of citizens and businesses. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] I would also like to make a few comments on Amendment 01.4 concerning Article 12 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u33	Senator Arrigoni, I remind you that you have fifty seconds left.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u34	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Article 12 of the Constitution recognizes as the symbol of the Italian Republic the tricolor representing the State. In the fundamental principles of the Constitution, however, it is not included any official recognition of the identity symbols that distinguish the Regions. This gap for us is unacceptable today, in the light of the valorization of the political and institutional role of the Regions, carried out by the most recent constitutional reforms, including the current one, after the foiled attempt to return to centralism that aimed to empty the Regions from legislative power in almost all matters. In this historical phase of rethinking the territorial planning of the state within - I am concluding, President - and at supranational level, we therefore think that it is more necessary than ever to recover the identity symbols that distinguish each regional reality and help to feed and strengthen the ties of the citizens with their territory, which is an indispensable prerequisite of any federal reform of the order. It is in this perspective of intervention, therefore, that we propose to include in the draft constitutional law under consideration a second paragraph in Article 12 of the Constitution, aimed at recognizing the constitutional importance of the identity symbols of each Region, which are identified for us in the flag and the anthem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u35	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 1,1716, which introduces the following period to Article 1, after the first paragraph of the proposed new text of Article 55 of the Constitution: "Both rooms are elected by universal and direct suffrage. The number of senators is one hundred and fifty and the number of deputies is three hundred and fifteen. This amendment aims to reduce the number of parliamentarians both in the Senate and in the House of Deputies, because it seems to us that the provision of the constitutional bill that wants to reform only the Senate and that aims to reduce the number of parliamentarians only in the Upper House is not a sufficient measure to cut the costs of politics, since this is one of the reasons that were put forward when it was decided to bring the number of senators to 100. Now, by doing just a very rough and very naïve calculation, the so-called calculation of the housewife, we think that if we want to achieve an objective of limiting the costs of the policy the operations to do would be others. First of all, what we propose with this amendment, namely to maintain bicameralism and therefore not to touch the system that has been laboriously developed by our constituent Fathers, with a whole system of weights and counterweights aimed at avoiding any possible authoritarian drift in this country. Thus, while maintaining bicameralism, one can still achieve the goal of cost containment, and not only that. Looking on the Net for a little press review, I saw that someone estimated the cost savings associated with half the number of MPs in both rooms. Well, according to an approximate calculation it would be a saving of about EUR 1 billion per year, compared to the EUR 80 million and a little more savings that would be achieved by the transformation of the Senate alone. Let us remember that this is not about abolition, but about transformation. Among other things, there would still be - even yesterday on the Corriere della Sera (Corriere della Sera) - a whole series of expenses connected with the operation of this structure and of all the personnel that must be employed in the structure, which is why we do not seem to get a great saving in expenditure. In addition, there is also an unknown link with staff, because it is true that measures have been put in place to guarantee it, but the fear that we have is that such work-guarantee measures will be thought of in the short term. We wonder what could happen to these workers in the medium and long term. We are in the midst of a black crisis, in which the lack of work and prospects, combined with the lack of real flexibility in the world of work, is one of the plagues that has plagued Italy for years now. That is why we are asking ourselves how appropriate it is to take measures of this kind. Finally, if we also wanted to broaden our eyes a little bit and remember the news that we have read in all the newspapers in recent years, we have to ask ourselves, for example, whether it would not be appropriate to start a serious fight against corruption and tax evasion. I have already talked in general discussion about these aspects: these are important issues, on which we should concentrate, in order to recover resources and to save money, but here, in these classrooms, we are not yet talking about them. However, let us return to Amendment No 1,1716: in order to reduce the costs, in addition to half the number of Members, we could also revise the allowances, introduce the list refunds - instead of the lump sums, which are also exempt from taxation - we could reduce the reimbursements to the Groups, always on the basis of the list refunds, and then we would have to abolish the famous public funding to the parties. If we want to broaden our eyes, we could also think of the application of the same measures to the Regional Councils, because every time we talk about spending review of the costs of politics we always focus on Parliament alone and instead forget all the cases of corruption, which have meant that, out of 20 regional Councils, 17 are under investigation by the judiciary. These cases of corruption are linked, for example, to the fact that regional council groups also receive lump sums, which makes it possible to give rise to corruption, not to mention the reduction of allowances and other measures. Among other things, I understand that in Parliament there are former regional governors who have been investigated, and this should give us the measure of the risk of having a high chamber made up of regional councillors and mayors. We therefore call on the House to consider this amendment, because we believe that a reduction in Members is actually in the Upper House - maintained as it is, in its prerogatives - both in the House of Deputies and a saving operation much more effective than the change in the whole Constitution, but only reducing the number of senators. Among other things, Mrs Mussini has said something very important and, given her hand, she has shown us that the House of Deputies is already working in an organic way (please give me the word), because she has shown us that many measures, not only those considered minor, such as ratifications of international agreements, but also legislative decrees or other drafts of law, are being examined in the Assembly and approved in the presence of a number of Members far less than expected, which would be 630. I therefore call on the House to consider Amendment No 1,1716 carefully. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u38	DE PIN (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the amendments I have signed, which I shall go along with, range from 1.1200 to 1.1250. This group of amendments aims to amend Article 56 of the Constitution and concerns the composition of Parliament; in particular, it is expected that its members will be reduced, just as all parties in the electoral campaign had promised. The reduction of the costs of the state was in fact the mantra that led us to this reform. The election of second degree of the Senate (but yesterday I also heard about the election of third degree), as foreseen by the Government, runs counter to the principle of popular sovereignty, enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution. The Senate, composed by the majority of members not elected by the citizens, but by the regional assemblies, would inevitably do the interests of the Regions, oriented to ask for additional resources, thereby creating a multiplier of public spending, while there is an absolute need to contain the huge waste, for which the Regions have a great responsibility. The discredit and disaffection of the citizens towards politics are not due to institutional architecture, but rather to the too many cases of corruption that are the protagonists of regional advisors, from tomorrow future senators. The problem of the numerical composition of the two branches of Parliament must be added, with a Chamber of Deputies of 630 members and a Senate of 100 senators, a mad disparity of six to one. The number of senators must be proportional to the number of Members. The reduction in the number of Members should therefore be welcomed, but it must be equal for both the Houses. The revision of the Constitution, as proposed, together with the electoral law passed in the House, clearly sacrifices representation for the benefit of governability. The Senate must remain elective, as also indicated by representatives of the majority. Senators can be elected on a regional basis, with a pure proportional system, ensuring gender equality. If this reform were to go as it is, it would lead to a strong distortion of democracy, because it would create an anonymous concentration of power in a single political force and, at the same time, remove an important part of the people's representatives from electoral control. Finally, the number of mayors sitting in the new Senate is clearly underestimated compared to the number of regional councillors. The anticipation of the indirect election of the Senate further mortifies the principle of representativeness, ending with prejudice to the institutional balances, in particular to the detriment of the role and prerogatives of Parliament. Moreover, the decision-making adventure undertaken by the Renzi Government, supported by Berlusconi, cannot be approved without passing to the Italians through a confirmation referendum. Changes to the text of the constitutional reform are absolutely necessary and the amendments tabled go in this direction. Frankly, we do not understand why they are not being transposed and why the President is insisting on defending this reform. It comes from thinking of those European Diktats (the so-called homework) that are imposed on us. If that is the case, President Renzi, go further: remove the Senate completely and on 30 July present itself before the European Commission, the ECB and the International Monetary Fund (the so-called Troika) and also say that the sacrifice of our Constitution at the altar of the Homeland will be done; but ask in return for the elimination of the Stability Pact, which is slowly killing our economy and, therefore, the Italian people. Also say that the cost of our workers will never be competitive with that of Poland, to give an example at random, or of other states of the European Union. Also say that we will soon no longer have the money to pay the integration fund; also say that we have 10 million people in relative poverty and more than 6 million people in absolute poverty, according to ISTAT data. Also say that the condition of couples with two children falls - one example of all -: the costs for these couples have increased from 16 to 21 percent. The negative data are therefore on all fronts. If democracy is to be removed from a people, at least a return to prosperity will be in return, otherwise, in my opinion, it is all useless. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u39	Madam President, I would like to refer to Amendments Nos 1,1947 and 01,2, which are linked to Amendment No 01,4, referring to another article, provided that time permits. From the point of view of the issues that this constitutional reform is about to address, we cannot but set ourselves with an undeniable proactive attitude to try to improve what has been proposed so far with the attached and related limitations that this proposal entails. I am sure that improvements have been made, but as a North League we cannot fail to highlight the attitude expressed yesterday by Mr Boschi, that is to say the closure of his speech, while we must acknowledge the existence of amendments which absolutely cannot be accepted. In particular, we point out that there has been little or even no interest in the world of self-governments and regions. With Amendment No 1.1947 we therefore want to say that territorial autonomy must not be called into question, because doing so means calling into question the democracy of our country. Therefore, if we speak of the Senate of the Autonomies, we of the North League absolutely want there to be a true content behind this name and that it is not only a populist flagship a name actually devoid of content but that there is substance and concreteness within the Senate of the Autonomies. As a result, we want to give back substance by making sure that the Regions and the territorial autonomy have a real representation and can therefore resume their role within our country. The name "Senato delle Autonomie" is certainly correct, but there must also be a real content and with this amendment, among other things, we claim a representation absolutely related to the population, which gives voice and guarantees equal dignity to the regions and territorial autonomy represented in it. This is certainly our will precisely to go against the growing power of the Community institutions, which clash with the popular vote, so much so that we now see in the European context how this interference by the European Union in many areas is a cause for dispute for individual countries; we therefore want this possibility of representation to allow regions and territorial entrances to give back voice to the territory also in contrast to the economic limitations that the territories are experiencing at this time. We have seen too often that this country is pouring - perhaps a strong expression - tears and blood for the harassment that Europe imposes on our territories from the productive point of view and we are no longer willing to accept them, so we demand a representation of regions and local authorities to give voice and defend the territory. The North League therefore cannot fail to table these amendments, because our DNA, which distinguishes us and gives us strength, is made up of values that we consider indispensable as autonomy and federalism; that federalism that initially everyone contested, that was seen as something absolutely negative and that everyone now fills his mouth without, however, providing absolutely resources or giving content to this word. With our amendments we want to put it into practice and ensure that the interest, individual priorities and capacities of the territories are re-evaluated and that there is therefore the will of the Government to make a change in this respect. In his speech Mr Boschi gave some very strong indications in this respect, but unfortunately in the opposite direction to ours, saying that with the reform is given voice to the territorial autonomy; well, we absolutely do not see these contents in the draft law under consideration, so at this point we want him to keep the word given and give answer to what he has confirmed but that in reality does not exist. I therefore call on the Government to consider our amendments and allow them to be removed, rather than the opposite direction that the Government is taking, i.e. not the interference of the State, but the autonomy that is the life of our territories and our regions. On this point, therefore, the reform must give answers, also because anyone who makes available time, energy, whoever puts himself at the service of the people in political activity (so I turn again to the Government) must draw inspiration from a system of guarantees. A system of guarantees can only be based on respect for the principles of democracy and representativeness contained in the Constitution. This amendment is certainly based on those fundamental principles which, among other things, we claim for all administrations, in particular self-determination and subsidiarity and, therefore, the will to have a Federal Republic, as the North League has always conceived. If Minister Boschi, as he said yesterday, is not afraid of ideas - those who have them - we too have many and we are not afraid of his ideas; that there is, therefore, reciprocity in accepting also our other ideas that are at the foundation of a democratic and representative system of our country. To this I certainly add the will to strengthen this representation through amendment 01.4, with which we strongly ask that there be also a recognition, from the symbolic and identity point of view, of the Regions, thus being able to have its own flag as a distinctive point of strength and identity and as something that distinguishes us within this country, to arrive at a federal representation, where each confederation can have its own identity (so an anthem and the flag). With this, therefore, we intend to give a greater voice to the peculiarities that each individual territory of our country has within it. We ask, among other things, that there be a full political autonomy of the Region and that, within it, it be possible to foster that direct relationship with the citizens, which currently, in the direction in which this Government is working, is not there. You have dismembered the Provinces, which are absolutely no longer elective and, therefore, there will be a total distance of citizens from them. You are taking the country in this direction also with regard to the Regions, removing the representation and management of the territories. Let us remember, in fact, that those who live the territory can know and manage it; can optimize the resources and can create those savings that are so flaunted in an absolutely incorrect way, but that can be exercised instead optimizing services by those who know the territories, can manage them and knows how to use the resources, but not only: by those who are responsible for the use of their own resources. This is an indispensable point of view, for us in the North League, in order to implement a federal system that gives us the opportunity to show what every single territory can do, give and manage concretely, without having to intervene on situations that unfortunately, as we have seen in certain other territories, take away resources to those who are virtuous. So, we're not doing any obstruction at all. Our proposals are clear, concrete and meritive, important and indispensable, for which we actually want answers and a comparison. I repeat: we do not accept that we are talking about obstructionism solely because of the content of this word, but we are showing it with the amendments which, in our opinion, are just and fair in number. These are amendments made with merit and certainly not to waste time because we have respect for the citizens, for those who gave us the mandate to work in the sense of representativeness, to give voice and to give the territories the opportunity to be represented here, to have strength and to be able to support territorial reasons. We therefore call on the Government to absolutely avoid closure, because this would be an undemocratic behaviour. To date, this attitude has been demonstrated; it is therefore an additional opportunity that the Government can have. Open to confrontation and realize that we work for the good of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u40	Excuse me, Mr President, I am told that I should speak to table amendments. But what amendments? I finished my ten minutes yesterday. You should Remember that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u41	If you want to give up because you've already spoken, that's fine. I was told that he had to table other of his amendments. If you want, we can move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u42	AIROLA (M5S). I'll check it out, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u43	Madam President, I shall try to explain the amendments 1,251 to 1,300. These are amendments that go in the direction - yes - of reducing the costs of politics, but not those of the areas of democracy, which I believe are very important at the moment. Once again I am witnessing a discussion in which the Government and the majority take positions that, from my point of view, are neither in heaven nor on earth. I think it's time to end with the use of different adjectives, some even very evil, against those who oppose this bill. Those who oppose this reform can only be considered someone who wants to defend a worthy democracy in this country. I've heard of everything, and now I'm no wonder of anything. I believe that there is a well-defined project and that nothing is born at random from this Government and those who preceded it, and it all began with the world of work. The words must also be measured, Madam President, because when I hear from this majority of the labour market I think that if you want to include workers, it is also a wrong expression. Defining humans as part of a market I think is wrong, so words are also fundamental and should be weighed when you use them. Then there is another point that seems important to me. We are talking about reforming the Senate and I hear they should come here to represent mayor citizens, regional councillors and regional presidents. I find this rather abnormal, and not because I am against these figures, anything else, but because I carefully consider how we want to reform Title V and I think that, on the one hand, we want to bring to the Senate people who should represent the territory and the citizens while, on the other, we take away all forms of representation to the territories. I don't know where the connection between the two is. In fact, I believe that in everything there should be a logic, a logic that I do not find in this case. Unless - and this is where I arrive - we do not think that the dark times are not yet over, on the contrary they will arrive with the famous spending review, and we do not want to take away, in addition to the spaces of democracy, also the spaces of possible democratic protests that could be lifted in the country, keeping under control a little 'everything. That would be very serious, Madam President. It would really be unworthy of a democratic country, as I have said for a long time. In short, these reforms go on a path along which democracy in this country will become an optional, a bit like in luxury machines, which will be guaranteed to a few people and not to all. So the 800,000 signatures are expected to call for a referendum or 250,000 signatures to present a bill of popular initiative: if this is the democracy of this country, I really am very concerned, because, after having done everything to remove the representation of all minorities that can be disturbing to this Government and this majority, we also try to eliminate any agility for any extraparliamentary actions. I am really upset but no longer surprised, because this is a project that has been going on for too long and you are totally aware of it. Perhaps the greatest fault you have is this, to be aware of what you are doing and, unfortunately, to persevere on this path. As always, I appeal to you because it is never too late to repent, to try to go back from the path taken is never too late. I see that there is no interest, but I will continue to repeat my appeals, because then everyone will assume responsibility for what he will do. I repeat that it is never too late to repent and to try to go back, because I really think that this is not the right way. Giving people a voice is the right way to get them involved. Continuing on the path you have taken is a losing choice not only for politics, but for the whole country. I think the citizens won't forgive you. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u46	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I have already spoken and thank you for your attention, but I must tell you that it will not be enough for me to change my opinion that your Presidency is not administered impartially. On the contrary, I take this opportunity to advise you to put guillotines and proceed to a rapid approval of this reform, because we are already in a dictatorship. In the Democratic Party, there are still Chiti, Casson, Tocci, Corsini and a few others, perhaps. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I advise you to let her through and never go to the opposition again, because she wouldn't agree with you. We're in a real regime. As President Lanzillotta presided at the end of the sitting on Thursday afternoon and as you did last night, from the things I heard from this Government, from these four gentlemen who come here to tell us four lies, I say to you: quickly approve this reform because we are already in a state of regime. Put the guillotines on, do this, keep it up. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u47	I take note of your thanks. I'm not gonna say anything about the rest.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u48	Madam President, this morning I will try to make our Group's contribution again on the issue of amendments. I would like to stress that the Group of the North League wanted to help write this important moment for our country and did it in a serious and constructive way, as we always do: it is an element that distinguishes our movement. We did so by making available the most authoritative among our senators, that is Mr Calderoli, to write with all those who wanted to do this important reform, to write with four hands this important moment for the country. Unfortunately, I would like to stress that the text we received was not written with four hands, but if ever with the left hand. Obviously we have nothing against those who write with the left hand: I use this term to refer to a strange vision. We are not even talking about "left" in the sense of political belonging, but we mean that it is a sinister moment for the country, with what we are seeing and what is going on. We have also shown seriousness about the amendments. The League has not tabled a single hundred amendments and we believe that we have made a sincere, clear and meritive choice about the contribution we have made to the government. However, we have seen (and this is the subject of my speech on the amendments I want to discuss) that this Government has shown little or no interest in territorial autonomy, what is the basis of our policy, which we have always vindicated. Last week, in my general speech, I pointed out what the reference model for the Northern League is, however,: it is always devolution, for us. But we wanted to take a step forward, because this constitutional reform is not devolution: it is far from our reference model. Hence our contribution to try to meet the legitimate demands that we bring from the territories. This is not only a political invention or a flag to be waved, but it comes from a solid and concrete political discourse, which comes from the territory, as my colleague Arrigoni well recalled in his speech. We held a federal congress on Sunday, which someone also had the irony of making it pass as a undefined Padana Sunday afternoon. I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been a very serious moment, where politics has been made and where the instances of the territories have arrived and, above all, the voice of the Regions that we administer. Governor Maroni and Governor Zaia spoke of this emptying, this attempt on the part of the Government to take away all that good in this country has been done. Unfortunately, this is quite obvious and, in fact, having regions that resemble prefectures or superprefectures is not in our political vision. The apex of your political will, namely the death of the local autonomy, is well represented by the first decree-law that you did, by the first abortion that you produced: the Delrio law. That law is absolutely not good. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] And I tell you, not with the voice of someone who wants to safeguard local hegemony or undefined armchairs. Like most of our Group's colleagues, I have my contribution and my personal experience, which we have gained in recent years in managing the territory: from municipalities, mountain communities, provinces, regions. We consider the attempt of the Delrio law even worse than the attempt of Monti. And this worries me very much because, honestly, I thought that worse than Monti could not be done. But on the matter of the Monti Provinces he tried to make at least an attempt to reduce them. Instead you do not reduce them: go to undermine, to question and to create institutional chaos in the territories where the Provinces bring their contribution, make the territory run. And I remember once again that we, in times not suspicious, have made proposals in this sense, which unfortunately have been unheard, and with which we were actually going to rationalize, to reduce the Provinces and to bring them together where it was useful to come together, and also very well the metropolitan cities. Indeed, it was a serious rationalization that was unheard. Minister Delrio has pointed out that the absolute evil is attributable to the local authority, that the economic waste is attributable to the local agency, and with this flag you have tried to do something, to put together a law and - alas - you have even tried, at this stage, to fix it through a passage into the Constitution. In fact, if you had not done the recognition of the territorial authorities of wide area, the Delrio law would have been appealable from the next day and would have had absolutely no value. So, to abundantiam, for the disaster that has been done. I repeat, you have created institutional chaos. First of all, politically speaking. If there is one thing that has been done well in this country, this happened when politics decided that citizens democratically and legitimately could choose their representatives, first of all the mayor. Which is a wonderful thing. I wasn't political yet, but before the years Ninety I remember the theater we have attended in all the municipalities (we have seen of all the colors). We voted for a group of people, then we found ourselves a mayor who - alas - was not always the expression of the popular will, but the result of a political alchemy that generated, in fact, a person put there ad hoc to manage certain interests. We have made the transition to give citizens the opportunity to choose their representatives, and I believe that this is an important achievement today. The same, ladies and gentlemen, was true of the Provinces. The political tragedy is that, having declared the Provinces of the second level, you allowed the same principle to apply as it applied for election in the Municipalities before the 1990s. By living the territorial reality, I can assure you that, in fact, the theater of politics have already begun to try to "snap" together of political buzzes (or supposedly so) in order to administer. This is not good at all! The contribution we are trying to make, once again, Madam President, as well as in the writing of this important reform, we are doing so through the amendments tabled. Let us be clear about one thing (Mr Volpi said well before): we have been correct and loyal in the process of tabling the amendments (I repeat that we have tabled very few serious amendments), but if anyone thinks of even putting the ring to his nose and that the League says 'Mrs.', well, he has not yet understood what we are made of! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u49	Madam President, I would like to ask the first signatory of amendment 1,1809, Senator Crimi, to be able to sign it and I would also ask him to be able to explain it. Why honor? Because in Article 1 of this bill, of this umpteenth soup you've done, you've succeeded in amending Article 55 of the Constitution. And you change it by trying to fit everything in. Assign the nation's representation to the Chamber of Deputies and explain in more detail the new tasks of the Senate of the Republic. Among other things, I wonder why you still call it "the Republic" when it must represent not the nation, but the subjects and municipal councils that have nothing to do with the nation for how they behave. Maybe you did it to save money on the letterhead, at least we don't reprint it again, as several politicians, indeed politicians, who changed the letterhead using the female gender. I keep writing as "the quaestor" to the male, because it's a role. But let us return to the amendment. Amendment 1,1809 calls for the nation's representation to be entrusted to the senators, because this is the only instrument that can enable us to give new senators responsibility for what they do. I don't know if Renzi realized, when he wrote this bill, the importance of a mayor or a regional councilman; maybe he didn't do it well enough and then he would also have the time to be a senator. I can affirm and testify that the new mayor of Livorno Filippo Nogarin, of the 5 Star Movement, would certainly not have time to be a senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe you don't listen to who's a good mayor, but just always listen to friends of friends. And that is now a practice. Let us return to Amendment No 1.1809. We also want to extend representation to the new senators, because for us it is up to all Members of Parliament, because they must put the interests of the community before everyone and everyone. Today this indication is provided for in Article 67 of our Constitution. I think it's a really nice Constitutional Charter. You always want to change something that works and our Constitutional Charter works: it is Italian politicians who do not work! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You forced us to leave our homes and come here to try to make you understand what a civil policy is. It is, however, a waste of time. Unlike Senator Airola, I hope that the Presidency will not take the responsibility of harmonising the times, because that would be at the expense of a real debate that all citizens want and that we continue to support here in this House. Let us return to the amendment. This concept expresses and recognizes the idea that an elected Parliament must interpret and thus represent the common interest, the interest of the whole country, and not the particular interests, as the advisers or mayors can do. The representation of the nation as a whole bears with it the consequence that Members of Parliament must respond to the nation and not to individual citizens or parties. By your law Italicum we will have nominations to the Chamber and Regional Councils. We know very well how the subsidies - let us call them - work for mayor. I really ask everyone - not you anymore, but those outside - to open their eyes, because the sovereign people can no longer have a veil on their eyes and the blackmail of their work. It is very true: there is a need for work, a radical change is needed in this Italy that is now at the last places in all sectors (in information, in work, in health care and everywhere); we are full of scandals. In order to change, however, we must not change the Constitution, but we must change the responsibility; we must change the politicians, who must find the courage to look in the mirror. I don't know how many of you do this, but please look at yourself in the mirror and look into your children and grandchildren's eyes, hoping that they will always be on the side of the majority. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] If I can finish, I never interrupt, Senator, let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u50	Please, senators, let the senator speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u51	BOTTICS (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. This is a fundamental point for the debate, because when we go to change representation, we touch on a point on which our Constitution is based. How do you entrust a task of revision of the constitutional law to a person who does not respond to the nation but responds to its regional council or its municipal council? How do you entrust control functions to him? This is another absurdity: you have succeeded, for the umpteenth time, in giving the task to the controller to control himself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If a councilman or mayor has to assess the activities of public administrations, explain to me what self-indicting and self-checking is. We have seen over the years that there is no longer a self-control of morality or dignity, because when it is stolen, it is not a moral question, but of dignity: how can we take away from our citizens something that he really sweats with the hours in the factory? I come from Carrara, where we have the quarries. Who works in the quarry, both as a quarryman and as a trucker (I invite you to watch a video of a trucker coming down from the quarries, then you all have beautiful marble floors), gets up at 5 a.m., goes to the quarry and sweats his money. In summer it's amazing to work in a place where everything is white and reflects the whole sun. And we sell them out, and you politicians don't even recognize the commitment of that sweaty money. When you steal, you steal from the sweat of your forehead: it is not only money, but it is sweat and fatigue. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u52	Please, senators, we've heard about everything in all the groups' speeches. Respect in this House applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u53	I invite you to conclude, Senator, you still have 30 seconds left. BOTTICS (M5S). I'm talking about who's being charged with theft. With amendment 1,1809, we are going to ask that the nation's representation be entrusted to the new senators, because only in this way can we have, as far as we can, the rules of the game that will be written, the awareness that the new senators are responsible to the nation and not to a municipal council or a regional council, which will only bring localistic interests. Italy no longer needs this, but to feel like a united people who together fight for the rights of all, without the exclusion of anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u54	Madam President, I rise to explain amendment 1,167, because I believe that the debate we are having in these two days is very interesting not only for us who are tabling the amendments, but above all for the citizens who are listening to us. I believe that knowing the merits of the amendments and the issues under discussion is fundamental, because too many doubts have been raised about the legitimacy of all those in this House who, and I must say outside, do not agree with this draft reform. But the delegitimization of the thesis of the interlocutors is now a really old technique, stuff of other times. We have said so many times that we are absolutely not opposed to a reform process. We simply have another idea of what the Government has proposed to us, and in this direction we have built amendments, because we want to restore the dignity of our role to Parliament and the power to change, affect and improve the text. We've already said we're against a Senate of nominees. We are for the direct election of senators and today we consider this to be a fundamental point, because it concerns the participation of citizens, as has been widely said in this debate. Today we are faced with a deep distrust of the citizens of politics. The latest European elections, in which only 56% of voters participated, must cause us concern. It is a fact that we cannot underestimate, because out of here it is clear to everyone that there is a country overwhelmed by the economic crisis and the recession, where the detachment of citizens towards politics is impressive. That is Italy of abstentionism, of disenchanting, of the protest shouted. That is a disappointed and angry country, which has no ideals and dreams. So how does politics take charge of this abandonment, of the escape of the citizens from active participation? Are you simply answering with a Senate of nominees? Yet, we have all read the polls these days, which tell us that three out of four Italians are asking for an elective Senate. Perhaps we should reflect on this, on what kind of elective Senate and also on what electoral law can finally respect the orientation of citizens and not produce contradictory results for the House and Senate, as we have seen in recent years. Perhaps we could think about a serious reduction in the number of senators and Members - in this direction we have tabled amendments - and really think about how to reduce the costs of politics, how to reduce allowances. Many proposals have been made today. Basically, the battle we are going to have to wage should overturn the negative symbol to which the Senate's role today has been reduced by propaganda. This is not a Senate to be thrown away with the same reasons that you used when you had to eliminate the blue cars: it is a Senate to defend as a supreme bulwark of freedom, which is not simply the doubling or duplicate of a Parliament, but it is half of a Parliament that you cannot abolish all together in the sense of starting to destroy half of it for now, and then proceed to the other House. For at least twenty years we have been trying to demolish the system of parliamentary guarantees by attacking parties, parliamentary regulations, politics and caste, and now we are finally starting from the Senate. But this issue, also in this debate, is once again not taken into consideration, and then the Government proposes us a Senate of nominations, mayors and regional councillors. With regard to the latter, we want to reiterate, because perhaps it is not clear to everyone, that they are all elected with different electoral systems, with different electoral laws and in some cases with different barriers. In many cases the electoral laws still retain the lists, that is, the quotas reserved for the appointed, for those chosen by the citizens. In many electoral laws - I am thinking for example of Tuscany, whose electoral law is known throughout our country even as the antesignan of Porcellum - there are no preferences. So, what are we talking about? About the self-producing caste? And then I would like to raise the issue of gender equality. You cannot participate in major events, such as those of February 2012, promoted by women's organizations and movements, such as if not now when they are, and not be consequent in this. We all took part in those demonstrations, and then perhaps today we should put the issue in a strong way, because this Senate risks not even respecting gender equality, not to mention the guarantee of minorities. I add another element that the text of the Government provides: the duration of the mandate, which is linked to the expiry of the territorial institutional bodies of which it belongs. So there will be no institutional continuity in this Senate, because the regional elections are all staggered. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , or perhaps the government is thinking of a decree to homogenize also the deadlines of the regional elections; but this will perhaps be a topic that we will see later. With this reform, what will happen to the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces and the State-Regions Conference? In fact, will they be expelled from the new Senate, or - without saying - are we eliminating the places of consultation between the State and the Regions? We have many difficulties in understanding the meaning of the words of yesterday of the Minister, when he told us that it is a House of political compensation, a new way, an innovative way of conceiving the relations between the central and the peripheral states, an important phase of connection. Maybe you're trying to tell us that this connection hasn't worked so far? So, rather than reflecting on this, how do you think that they will be able to carry out functions of liaison between the central government and the regional governments of the simple regional councillors? What representativeness will they have with respect to the choices of the regional governments since they are not representatives of the regional governments? Do you not think that there is also a risk of conflict over roles and powers in the regions themselves? And again, do you think you can solve this problem by simply naming majority counselors? Because here too it is clear that there is a conflict of interests, as well as a vulnus, because in fact we think of a Senate representing the territories but in reality it will be a Senate that will simply represent the parties. Ugo De Siervo, speaking of the current proposal for reform of the Senate, expresses many concerns because, instead of being a high agreement in the interests of citizens, the reform strengthens the differences between ordinary regions and special regions, and states: The proposed innovations are strongly reductive of the autonomy of the Regions, this would paradoxically further accentuate the detachment of the autonomy of the five Regions from that of the other Regions. Then, also on the issue of balancing powers, with respect to a careful assessment of what the application of Title V of Part II of the Constitution has been in recent years, we should have reasoned seriously, recovering years and years of delays. This reform, however, seems more dictated by an anxiety of governability - a anxiety so strong that the government has disappeared and is not present in the Chamber [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] - which does not give rise to a need to strengthen democratic spaces. We are told that it is to make a simpler, stronger and more courageous state. But who has the courage to change...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u55	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u56	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I've got ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're running out of time. 24 seconds left. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I shall conclude, Mr President. I was saying that the courage to change is up to those who govern, those who have responsibility for it. Change is not enough to announce it; it must also be practiced. Then, the debate these days cannot be represented as mere obstructionism: we are exercising the role of opposition and minority, and this is also a right that cannot be cancelled because it is called pluralism. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Fattori and Liuzzi.]] It doesn't scare us to work day and night. We do this because we are defending the Constitutional Charter and the annoyance with which the majority is listening to this debate makes us send back to the sender the accusation of the low desire to work. It is true what the Minister said yesterday, I agree very much with you: lies in politics do not serve. Then stop telling them with your propaganda. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u57	Madam President, I am speaking on Amendment 01.18, which refers to the tax system and essentially to fairness. We want to try to make it clear that, regardless of what should deserve special attention in relation to tax evasion and avoidance, to certain phenomena that are unfortunately well known in this country, that of taxes and taxes is an issue that still excessively and daily harasses our citizens. I therefore believe that when we try to find a solution, which allows us to direct the action of our revenue agency, and therefore of everything that is part of the tax galaxy, towards a true equity (let me say this parenthesis) it is unfair to refer to fiscal federalism, which we have supported for many years, saying that it has helped to increase taxes and to make citizens pay more taxes. This is profoundly wrong and the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who represents the Government here, knows very well why fiscal federalism should have been a substitute for the taxes that went to Rome, and not an additional one. So what happened? The weapon of local taxation has been used skillfully to say to the municipalities: "Arrange yourself, impose new taxes and keep the revenue". But the taxes that the citizens paid before would continue to pay them, and would no longer be distributed between Rome and the local realities, through subsequent transfers, but would all remain in Rome. So citizens found themselves gabbed (use a kind term, not to use a heavier one). Therefore, the issue of fairness must also be addressed within the modification of the constitutional architecture, which we are dealing with and which has one of the most sensitive aspects in the tax field. Moreover, it is enough to read yesterday's newspapers - and in particular the Republic of Italy - to understand the condition of many local realities of this country and to understand that this majority and the others that preceded it have often been concerned about the debts of Naples and Rome, but they have never had the same attention for many other realities present in the country, which instead have been abandoned to themselves and have never had that eye of regard that instead - who knows why? - they had those cities, certainly because they have so many voters, because there are so many political interests and because they are daily in national newspapers. Then they need this help and they also have so many saints in paradise. However, the issue is much wider and I would say that in this case the solution was not to grant new aid, perhaps also creating bad companies, on the model of Alitalia, in which perhaps to bring together the debts of the companies controlled or participated by these municipalities. The solution would simply be to take and send home the administrators, the incompetent and inept politicians, who should be banned not only from the passive electorate, but also from the active electorate. I therefore believe that a drastic solution is needed in the face of administrators who are wrong in using public resources. This, however, is another matter if we want to. We are therefore addressing the issue of a constitutional revision, which involves a number of much broader and more sensitive passages. As I said in a previous speech, we must make choices calmly, taking as long as it takes to be sure that we are making the right choices, especially because then it will be natural not to touch, for decades, the second part of the Constitution, Title V, and all those constitutional bodies that we are discussing these days. It is true that there are Constitutions that have been constantly updated, such as the French one. If you remember, President, there is a beautiful anecdote that tells of a student who, going to the National Library of France and asking for a copy of the French Constitution, was answered by the officer who did not own the library. In response to the student's request for explanations, the director himself replied that the periodicals were not kept in the National Library of France. The French Constitution therefore presents an excess of amendments, even substantial, and certainly full-bodied, which lead, however, to degrade - as it were - the importance of the Constitution itself. Certainly also the Constitution of the United States - completed in 1787 and in force since 1789, the year of the French Revolution - has undergone changes, despite being written by characters such as Jefferson, Washington, Madison and Hamilton. It basically had 27 amendments, of which 10 were in one shot for the Bill of Rights, which were incorporated in the first two years since its adoption. We are talking about amendments and not about upheavals in a Constitution made up of only seven articles. Evidently those people at the time, in 1787, worked well, they listened. Another of the issues on which I would like to focus is precisely the importance of listening, the importance of power and the need to carefully assess what is being said to us even outside this House by people who are nevertheless experienced and competent on the issues we are debating: we are talking about subjects who have been dealing with reforms for many years, who often teach, write essays and who have good ideas. It is also important, above all, to listen to those on the territory who are called to operate daily within institutions that have contacts with us: we spoke before the Provinces and the error that was made thinking of abolishing them, while only the 'directial' organs were abolished, leaving all the scaffolding still standing. I have therefore recalled the importance of listening: listening to understand and understand to decide, thus finding solutions that - possibly with the widest possible sharing within this House - can then become a definitive norm. The information aspect is also important in order not to cause disappointment in the expectations of citizens who perhaps, at this moment, believe that something can be done. We are, of course, willing to discuss reforms. We have set targets and we believe that it is necessary to recognise the role of the territories; we believe that the issue of areas of shared competence of the regions should be regulated in a certain way. We think that, as far as the election of the Senate is concerned, there can be a more shared solution than the one identified, or better representative of the territories. On this we compare ourselves, so it is not an obvious vote what we will go to give on every amendment, on every article and on every paragraph of the constitutional amendment under consideration. I have spoken of disappointment: to inform means not to disappoint, not to be faced with citizens who then, having not been informed, feel yet another great disappointment on the part of the political class. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator Stucchi. Stitches (LN-Aut). I will conclude with a metaphor, Madam President. In these days in Rome the Trevi Fountain is the subject of restoration works. There are several people who come from all over the world to see it, but not even on the site of the Municipality of Rome is reported the information that the fountain is closed for restoration work, and for this reason there is no water inside it. This testifies to the importance of informing citizens of what is happening, not only outside, but also in this House, in order to prevent disappointments in the end, in order to prevent people who, even this time, after believing in the possibility of reforming the Constitution of our country, are faced with a new Constitutional Charter "without water." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u58	Madam President, I would like to begin by presenting Amendment No 1,881, on page 742 of the beautiful tome that accompanies us these days, at the first signature of Senator Crimi, and I would like to draw attention to Amendment No 1,118, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, to which I would ask you to sign. Madam President, before I go into the illustration of these amendments, I am obliged to stress a concept that has already been mentioned by other Members of my Group and which must be strongly reiterated, namely the position of our political group of complete adversity to the entire work we are doing for the now known, although apparently ignored, lack of moral and political legitimacy of this Parliament in putting its hand to the constitutional system, in such a brutal and hasty manner, because of the now architected judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court which, for its effects, especially at political and moral level, should prevent this Parliament so delegitified from disrupting the entire constitutional system of the country. This Parliament would do well to deal with the daily emergencies that most citizens are facing with the increase in poverty; it would do well to create the structures of protection for the weakest groups with that income of citizenship that we in vain are claiming in every place, in the Commission and also in this House; and it would do well to work out a truly fair and constitutionally legitimate electoral law, in order to be able to go to the vote and make sure that perhaps that Parliament was invested in the historical mission of changing the Constitutional Charter. But this train goes fast; the government train and the fake opposition that supports it with the Nazarene pact is launched towards that horizon that we see as the abyss. Therefore, in addition to putting some stones on the tracks, legitimately as an opposition, we believe that the best we can do at this moment is, so to speak, to operate exchanges so that, if we are condemned to stand on it, at least this train goes in the least harmful and most virtuous directions possible. All the amendments of the 5 Star Movement are directed towards the strengthening of those institutions of direct democracy, which have instead been developed in the design of the draft laid down by the 1st Commission. However, returning to the merits of the proposed amendments, Amendment 1,1881, at the first signature of Senator Crimi, is limited to an intervention of no particular importance, but in its simplicity it is also symptomatic. It calls, with regard to the Chamber of Deputies, the only surviving Chamber according to the Government's intentions, to replace the words: "it is the holder of the relationship of trust with the Chamber of Deputies, with the words: "Accords or revokes confidence in the Chamber of Deputies." This is therefore a semantic change, but it leads to reasonableness and also to coordination with the provisions of Article 94 of the Constitution in relation to the relationship of trust and therefore to the political orientation that constitutional law manuals indicate as prepared, initiated together between the Government and Parliament. The current article 55 is really nice. Looking at the study department file and seeing, so to speak, the face that the new Article 55 of the Constitution should have with the text proposed by the Government and the Commission, we notice that something happens plastically that we have censored several times already. Our Constitutional Charter is known and appreciated, by us first, all over the world for its simplicity, for its simple language and for the easy understanding also by the humblest citizen and less endowed with interpretative instruments of a legal or institutional nature. The current Article 55 consists, in the first paragraph, of two and a half lines, where it is said: The Parliament is composed of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. The new Article 55, which the train launched in running wants to introduce into the order, is a monstrum of almost 30 lines, which represents very well the way in which we want to intervene on the Constitutional Charter. What was a simple and understandable text, though strong in the declaimed principles, becomes something a bit murky and much more similar perhaps to a condominium regulation. This too, we believe, is an outrage that is being carried out against our Charter. Amendment 1,118, first signed by Senator De Petris (which I repeat I want to subscribe to), is one of the amendments tabled by the Mixed-SEL Group where a number of alternative scenarios are being prepared to what should be the composition of the Senate and the House. I have identified this amendment, among others, because it seems to me that it represents one of those exchanges that could be tried to operate to change the direction of the train that is unholy. The amendment provides for a reduction in the number of Members in the number of 400. It is, therefore, a number that is not so frustrating with respect to the sacred principles of representativeness that must be protected, even if it is to envisage and support an overall reduction in the number of Members who, as we know, do not see us against it. It is also expected that the age of the passive electorate will be reduced for the voting of the Chamber members from 25 to 21 years. Here again, I think it is a shared reasoning to extend the audience of the passive electorate: it is always something that can be welcomed and encouraged. By virtue of the reduction in the number of future MPs, the number relative to the circumscriptions is also redetermined: that denominator in the fraction that sees in the numerator the number of inhabitants of the Republic is rightly reduced - also this - from the current 618 to 392; this also seems a rational measure to ensure the balance of representativeness of the future members of the House. The last paragraph of this amendment also provides for a reduction in the number of senators, to the number of 200, of which four are elected in the foreign constituency. It is, therefore, an amendment proposal that can be accepted and an exchange to be carried out on the running train because it provides, of course, for a cost reduction, which is the objective flagged by the Renzi Government, we know in a truly demagogic way. We have already said many times that, compared with the hundreds of millions - or perhaps billions - that should be saved, this is a lie. Despite Minister Boschi saying that in order to make politics there is no need to tell lies, it is the same members of the government who - ahinoi - seem to fall into this villain. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are therefore talking about a reduction of Members of this House so as to maintain a criterion of representativeness and not to cancel or reduce the parliamentary system to what seems to be the objective of a Parliament which is essentially monocameral.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u59	Senator Buccarella, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u60	BUCCARELLA (M5S). As I said, a basically monocameral parliament in which the majority, perhaps elected with a law of dubious constitutionality, such as Italicum, as created, succeeds in arming itself and not only in determining the political direction of government and parliament, but also, as well known, in making appointments autonomously in the bodies of the third power - the judicial one - with the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court and the non-attached members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And this is one of those aspects of the authoritarian scenario or - to want to be as careful as possible - of limiting the democratic spaces that we fear and that is why we would like this train to stop. One final remark, if I may, Mr President, in the last few seconds you will allow me. I would have liked to have read a few sentences from one of the constituent Fathers, Mr Laconi, already mentioned by Senator Corsini in his speech, but I am afraid there is not enough time. However, he felt vibrant, 67 years ago, in the work of that Constituent who worked for almost three years on the establishment of the text of our fundamental Charter, that passion that today we risk to mortify even with the desire to emerge the few institutes of direct democracy that exist today in our system. Here comes to mind the speech of the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, who has legitimately supported, from her point of view but in a completely unreasonable way according to who is speaking, that direct democracy and therefore the referendum and the initiative of popular law must be calmed down so as not to empty too much or put in difficulty the system of representative democracy which seems to be the principle to be protected. It is an idea that would also be acceptable, except that that criterion of representative democracy has been emptied for decades now by what the political parties have become, betraying their historical mission, the one imagined by Laconi and the other constituent Fathers. This train has to stop somehow! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u61	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to say straight away that I will not dwell on the amendment, which I signed first, 1,1555, because Senator D'Alì has already explained it (and I am grateful for that) and I would like to make a few comments on that amendment in the explanation of vote. On the other hand, in this illustration, I would like to comment on Amendment No 1.1926. A small general premise: I personally do not share the system given to the Senate and I am inclined for a Senate of a pro-United States model, that is oriented on the American model, a model that works perfectly and meets a series of requirements and which, moreover, as I will observe in the future, also takes away justification for that motivation that we give not to give the Senate some powers, that is that the Senate does not give the government confidence. The U.S. Senate does not give confidence to the President of the United States of America or his Cabinet and is an elective Senate which has its own specific functions, including those on the budget, which is the subject on which I want to focus in this context. I made this premise, which I will explain later, to say that the general system personally does not convince me. However, as it should be, I have access to the plant that my political strength has also presented and I try to make some improvements, while remaining of the general conviction that I have said not to share this type of plant. In particular, in amendment 1.1926 I add to the functions of the Senate the verification of the implementation of the Constitutional Law 20 April 2012, n. 1. As you know, this law is of great importance and has a specific relationship with our relationship with the European Union. This constitutional law introduced the principle of balanced budget into the Italian Constitutional Charter. Why can the Senate fail to assess the implementation of this law as its fundamental task? It cannot fail to evaluate it because otherwise it would create a real institutional vacuum that would be observed in various fora, not least that of the European Union. Article 2 of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 20 April 2012 reads as follows: In Article 97 of the Constitution, the first paragraph reads as follows: "Public administrations, in line with the European Union's legal order, shall ensure balance of budgets and the sustainability of public debt." I would remind myself that public administrations are all the other bodies that are not the State: exactly the ones that deal with the budget in the form that is presented to us today by the first Commission that has drawn up it. It is clear that a clear aporia of a constitutional nature is created, because the sustainability of public debt for the budgets of public administrations is not verified by the House that deals with public administrations. I therefore believe that this is an amendment not only of common sense, but that could avoid us some serious problem with our obligations laid down in the European Treaties that we have signed. In fact, the questions legitimately arise: what does the Senate do, which deals with public administrations? Does it not help to ensure the balance of general government budgets? And does it not help to ensure the sustainability of public debt? The interpretations would obviously be different: there may be one restrictive and one extensive, but I believe that a Constitutional Charter should not and should not incur this error. I will also make a speech later on on other amendments to Article 81 itself, but as far as the law is concerned, the textual fact seems frankly insurmountable, and it is a real problem both within and outside the European Union, in the relationship between the budgets of the State and those of the public administrations. I say more. Article 5 of the same Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, paragraph 4, reads as follows: The Chambers, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the respective Regulations, exercise the function of control over public finances with particular reference to the balance between revenue and expenditure and to the quality and effectiveness of public administration expenditures. First of all there is a textual data: the reference to the Rooms. Otherwise you should change the law and since this is a constitutional law I recall that the same text presented to the Assembly prescribes that the constitutional law can be revised with the Senate in legislative function. But we must not run into these situations. I repeat, therefore, that there is a problem: the Chambers. But the constitutional legislator of Law No. 1 of 2012 said well, because it was consistent with the general system. The Chambers refer to the balance between revenue and expenditure and to the quality and effectiveness of public administration expenditure. I therefore feel that it is inevitable that the constitutional text should include in our examination the verification of the implementation of that constitutional law. If we did not do so, I repeat, we would have very serious problems of coordination of the rule; on this we already have the problem, but certainly we would have problems in politics with the European Union and in the balance between the state and other public administrations: that is a certain fact, I would say that cannot be eliminated. I think, however, that it can be eliminated; as I said, I do not agree to the general system, but if we have to make some rules, at least let us try to make it consistent with the exposure we have towards the European Union. Finally, I would like to point out that, even in concrete terms, if this did not happen tomorrow, we would have problems. The Government (but I believe that this has become almost a common feeling), bases much of its public finance action on spending review. You will allow me the use of an English word, Madam President: otherwise, we will use the Italian expression, the revisiting of expenditure, which, as a southern farmer, may be more appropriate to me. There is no doubt that the revision of expenditure also takes place on the budgets of local authorities. So, how is the state structure configured if, for the first time in the Italian Republic, the Chamber of Autonomies is established which must verify how the expenditure is distributed between the central State and the public administrations and then this does not know and cannot see how that law is implemented and in concrete terms, the spending review (which is one of the forms of implementation) when it directly affects the local authorities)? I would say that a state-shaped plant comes out that we are building that would have a vulnus even from an immediate and concrete point of view. Therefore, I have the feeling that even the action of government at this moment, which focuses on spending review (which I personally share, but, I repeat, is even an idem to hear), could find, in the Chamber that is elected with those characteristics that are presented to us, a clear situation of difficulty. And I wouldn't want to repeat the story of the last constitutional revision. The work of the Constitutional Court, in fact, has increased since then to a great extent for the conflicts of attribution. It is quite clear that a House which has to undergo a spending review and cannot even discuss it or engrave it makes an appeal to the Constitutional Court. I am against jurisdictionalisation, but anyone would have a good reason to appeal to the Constitutional Court for explanations. This has already happened several times. That is why I call for this amendment to be accepted. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators De Petris and Sangalli.]] 11:52 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the amendments 1,1451 and 1,1453, which amend Article 56 of the Constitution. These amendments aim to reduce the number of Members (to 250 in the first amendment and 300 in the second), the elimination of elected Members abroad and, in the case of amendment 1,1453, to reduce the age of the passive electorate in the House to 18 years. I would like to make a brief statement on why we have tabled these amendments and why I should now like to explain their content. Like many others, we have considered it time to revise the Constitution with the aim of simplifying the legislative process and reducing the overall costs of Parliament. To this end we have tabled a draft law, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Campanella, which I have signed. However, once the text of the Government was chosen as the basic text in the Commission, we considered it possible and right to include certain aspects of our draft law in the text under discussion. That is why Amendment 1,1451. It is also important to add that this happened also in view of the sharing of the objectives that the Government itself proposed, and that were indicated in the famous slides presented on 31 March last and available on the website of the Government. I would remind you that the objectives of the constitutional revision were five: the overcoming of the bicameralism of equality, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the operating costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V. It is significant to note that these five objectives, defined in times, let's say, not suspicious, are combined with difficulties (or, perhaps, do not match at all) with the four stakes defined by the President of the Renzi Council which, I remember, are instead the following: no confidence on the part of the future Senate to the Government, no approval of the budget law, no compensation to future senators and no direct election of senators, or only indirect election. This last point, the most controversial, does not pursue any of the five objectives defined by the Government itself and this surprises because it is one of the most controversial points on which the Government absolutely does not want to withdraw. However, it does not match the five objectives which it itself has set itself in order to achieve such a profound constitutional revision. It must also be said that the majority of the second Chambers (now it is necessary to call it the Senate) throughout Europe is established by indirect elections. But these very often combine with electoral laws with proportional system in the first House. We know instead that in Italy we are pressing to move towards an electoral law, called Italicum, in which the majority system prevails. That is why perhaps the revision of the Constitution, in addition to affecting Part II and Title V, should have also involved electoral law. Well, with Amendments Nos 1,1451 and 1,1453 it is proposed to reduce the number of parliamentarians, which is therefore a common objective of the Government and the majority. In fact, in the debate held in the Commission, it was found that the majority limited the number reduction only to senators and not even Members. No reduction in the number of Members. Perhaps it should have been written explicitly for more clarity and to avoid misunderstandings. I would like to understand the ratio of the decision to keep to 630 the number of Members whom, on the other hand, we propose to halve or reduce to 250. This choice gives continuity to a House thus maintaining a point of continuity in this profound revision, and in this sense it is an understandable choice, but partially acceptable because it is a choice that collides with the other objective, namely the reduction of Parliament's operating costs. Of course, a smaller number of Members lead to a reduction in the overall value of allowances, allowances and all other allowances that Members receive. This choice is therefore partially found and I propose, with the amendments mentioned, that Members also be reduced. Another point addressed with these amendments is the elimination of elected Members abroad. Nothing against them personally. However, it is more reasonable to maintain a representation of our fellow countrymen living abroad only in the Senate that in this reform comes to be a House that brings the demands of the many local communities in which Italy is divided. We know that initially it had to be called the Senate of the Autonomies, that it has to collect the instances of the local authorities (be they the municipalities, rather than the Regions). By analogy, therefore, the demands of the communities of Italians who live beyond our borders can be better represented in the future Senate, rather than in the Chamber of Deputies. That is why we believe that the proposal to eliminate elected Members abroad is rational. Amendment 1,1453 also proposes to reduce the age to 18 in order to be elected Members. As you know, this age limit is now set at 25 years, but the reason for it is not clear because at 18 you are of age and you are fully responsible for your actions, both from a legal and a criminal point of view. Why couldn't you at that age become legislators? Furthermore, there is no age limit in the text under discussion for senators and why should it be maintained for Members? That would be an illogical, incomprehensible choice. Otherwise we should recognize the value of the experience that the passing of the years would give the elected, whether they are Members or Senators. It seems to me that the text proposed by the Commission does not propose this concept at all. There is no age limit for future senators and therefore the same must apply to Members; the only limit is the achievement of the highest age. To tell the truth, the collective imagination sees in the senator the wise and forward person in the years that can, thanks to the greater experience, better grasp than others all the aspects that the things of life present to us daily. This perception arises also from the history that precisely in the ancient Roman Senate has the most famous and relevant example. The current text, on the contrary, maintains an age limit for Members who must be over 25 years old, while accepting and promoting the existence of 18-year-old senators. Why do I say "facilitates"? Because it is likely that future regional councils will send the youngest advisors to the Senate, because they will be able to gain experience in view of a future brilliant political career in the real political chamber, that is, the House of Deputies, or perhaps in the European Parliament. It will be a bit of a gym; the experience at the Senate will be useful in view of a future seat in the House, which - I repeat - is the real Political Chamber, but which they will only be able to access when they reach the age of 25 and not before. The 25-year bond for Members is out of place, anachronistic and illogical, in contrast to the rules laid down for senators, and therefore - in my opinion - it must be absolutely removed. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u63	Mr President, I am a simple accountant, and so I am more familiar with the numbers and issues dealt with in the Budget Committee. Therefore, for all this matter linked to constitutional reform I must make use of what I feel and what I can understand by reading. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the intervention made by the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, on the amendment he has tabled, to highlight the shortcomings of this reform. Moreover, that highlighted by Senator Azzollini is an important gap, but it has not been noticed by the Government. As far as the preparation of this reform is concerned, I would like to refer precisely to the words used yesterday, in response, by Minister Boschi. The Minister said that this reform is widely shared: we have seen how it is shared! It's probably shared between you and President Renzi, because I don't know who else shared it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] I am not talking about opposition, because this would be normal in a logic of majority and opposition; I am talking about the fact that this reform is not even shared within the Democratic Party. Another statement that leaves me particularly amazed is that it rests on robust and solid shoulders. I do not know how this debate will end, because it is important. I hope, however, that the Government will listen to the demands that come from us poor senators, who perhaps no longer count, but we will say what we hear on the territory. If President Renzi doesn't want to listen to us senators, who are old and we don't count anymore, listen to the citizens who are a fundamental part of the country. I refer, for example, to the election of the senators: I do not know how many or who Renzi listens to, but really try to listen to the citizens, because everyone says that the representatives of the people must be elected by the citizens. Minister Boschi said yesterday that we have been waiting for 30 years tomorrow to have nostalgia. But perhaps the Minister does not remember that within that true reform of the Constitution there was a cut in the number of parliamentarians, the true Senate of the autonomy, the direct election of senators. It was a very important reform, which unfortunately the left did not want to approve, basing the whole campaign on the referendum on the denigration of that reform. Maybe the Minister doesn't remember because she was young and taken by something else. A passage in his reply in particular leaves me amazed and I quote him because it concerns the reason why I said these things to illustrate amendment 01.3 that is, when he says that the urgency of the reforms, which are the mother of all the battles of the Government, is undeniable and that the Government will keep its promise to change because this urgency stems from the demands of the European Union. This particular point is fundamental, Mr President, because we are now moving towards a situation in which Italy no longer counts, in which Europe counts, so much so that the Minister also says that we have to reform because it is Europe that is asking us to do so. Apart from the fact that we are no longer counting on the budget, we cannot decide how to spend our money because Europe must tell us and we cannot do reforms on work and taxes because we must respect Europe and, Mr President, the amendment we have tabled is important because it says that Italy participates in "equal conditions" (key word) with other states and in compliance with the supreme principles of the system. This equality, Mr President, unfortunately I do not see it. That is why we have tabled the amendment; there is no equality because Italy is discriminated against. We see it every day, with what is happening with immigration: why does Italy have to bear all the burden of these immigrants alone? Aren't we part of Europe? Shouldn't we be a state like everyone else who belongs to Europe? Europe tells us: "Bravi, continue, you must welcome them," but if they go to Austria, they would send them back: if they arrived in Italy they must stay. So much for equality! Last week, in a hotel, I spoke with the Romanian goalkeeper and, apart from the fact that he did not understand why this reform did not foresee the direct election where the citizen can express his opinion, I was amazed what he told me about the issue of security, as well as the fact that a Romanian interested in our system. And on this point the question of Italy's equality with other states arises: in Romania there is no security problem, because in the evening a lady alone can safely turn around the park and the streets and be sure that nothing happens to her. Perhaps there justice is handled differently from Italy. That goalkeeper said that if a criminal receives a penalty, he pays it to the end, and not as happens by us: there the criminals are delinquents and are treated for what they are worth, contrary to what happens in Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Another issue I would like to address before I finish my time: the issue of equality of States in order to promote the European Union. As long as there are different rules in the economy, we will not be the same as the other states. In Italy we have 10,000 rules to respect, unlike other states where they do not exist, where workers are exploited, work in absurd places, certainly not healthy. We must bear this injustice because they are part of the European Union. Let us keep them in the European Union. We always have rules to respect and the other states do not. With this amendment we want real equality in order to make Europe grow and to ensure that there is respect for the people who make it up. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.1897. Article 1 of the Constitutional Bill, which replaces Article 55 of the Constitution, reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies holds the relationship of trust with the Government and exercises the function of political direction, the legislative function and that of controlling the work of the Government. The amendment that I am presenting replaces the words: "and control of the government's actions" with the following: Parliament shall exercise the function of control over the work of the Government. Basically, according to Article 1 of the Constitutional Bill, the government's work should be controlled by the Chamber of Deputies alone, consistent with the reduction of the Senate's role and control powers that your reform proposes. The amendment proposed by us, on the contrary, with a view to rebalancing the forces, aims to leave intact the power of control of the Executive and its work in the hands of the Senate. The control of political action should not only be of the House of Deputies but of the whole of Parliament, as is the case today. You always talk about Europe's demands. Not later than a few months ago, Europe stated that one of the major problems of the Italian Executive and the Italian State in general is that the laws made in this House do not follow the implementing decrees. From what I understand - when I went to school I was still studying civic education - the separation of the three powers serves precisely this, beyond the mutual control: the legislative power made the laws and the executive power made the implementing decrees. Now you want instead to concentrate all the power in the hands of the Government, which already can not be behind the implementing decrees that it must produce. Let's imagine later, when he makes both the laws and the implementing decrees, if he can keep up. This really seems incredible to me. Europe is asking us to do this. He asks us to make the implementing decrees, which remain instead of the electoral ads within the Palazzi, to bring the laws into the real world, because this is what it is about: the laws must reach the real world. As long as they remain inside the Palaces, they serve very little and remain electoral ads, and I do not say so, but Europe. Once Europe asks us for something wise, let us do it, it would be desirable. We had a perfect machine: the three powers (executive, legislative and judicial) had a motivation to be separated. After thirty years of not using this machine you want to modify it saying it doesn't work, when you've always left it in the garage: get this car out and make it work [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; If it doesn't work, let's get it fixed. For thirty years now you have been going on by decrees: right, left, center, whoever goes to the government, instead of being executive, does the legislative. What's the point? It is always the sense of power or perhaps of feeling better than those others. Let us really put Parliament back at the heart of political life, let us abandon this delusion of omnipotence that the government is better than the people elected by the citizens to represent them in the rooms, and let us really see if it works. Amendment 1,1897 goes in that direction, especially because if only the House of Deputies will control the government's power it is obvious that with the electoral law that you would like to pass, the Italicum, it is practically the controller who controls himself. I don't know, let's make a new troika; a one-person dictatorship seems exaggerated to me; let's make a three-man dictatorship and pretend that in three they manage all the powers and control each other; otherwise you're making fun of us. The House of Deputies will not touch it: the reforms will not touch the House of Deputies precisely because, while the reforms will be discussed - and today you will probably make a conference of group leaders to put the guillotine or to "harmonize" the times, the prettiest word in the House the debate will not even be opened; the doors to the Chamber, the voted and the closed issue. This is a very dirty game, especially for citizens who have not been informed by a press that every time talks about reforms such as the abolition of the Senate, which is not true. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have not abolished the Senate; we have said so infinitely: the Senate is not abolishing it but transforming it into something that is of no use, without noticing the damage it causes, as has already happened with the Delrio decree which, as my colleagues have already said in this House, is creating major problems for public bodies because it does not work; there are holes that do not turn things around, and if this reform has been done exactly like the Delrio decree, perhaps it is better that we think about it a bit more and stop rushing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If it is the Constitution that does not work, the question is a little worrying in my view: if you want to rule the country alone, with only one man in command, without the instruction booklet, I would like to know where it ends because sooner or later it crashes, whoever is in charge. Since you did not give me the floor yesterday when I raised my hand, I would like to ask if I can do my own with Amendment 1.0.102 which was withdrawn yesterday. Amendment 1.0.102, which states: The law provides for the incandidability of those who appear to have the ownership or control, even by interposed person, of an undertaking that carries out mainly or exclusively its business under the authorisation or concession system issued by the State, or that appears to be able to dispose in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, or may determine in some way its addresses, including indirect equity, with particular reference to the sectors of finance and communications of national importance. I do so because it is completely consistent with what I said the other day in general debate, when I was talking about information. I repeat this for those who may not have been present in this House at the time: information is completely subject to political power. I wonder why there is such a rush to reform and reform the Constitution, but the two reference laws on information are still in force today: the Gasparri law and the Frattini law. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u67	Mr Bencini (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I too would like to endorse the amendment made by Senator Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to explain some of our amendments, which insist on the composition of what will be the Senate of the Republic, already Senate of the Autonomous States, and in particular on the number of senators who will be forming this legislative Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, we have distorted this reform into its many facets, as we rightly have to do, by pointing out all the positive aspects and especially the negative ones, asking for a comparison and requesting amendments to the text as we first received from the Government and as it was then modified by the Commissioners and rapporteurs in the Commission. We have therefore talked about the question of the electivity of the senators, the competences of the new Legislative Chamber; we have also talked about Title V or another of the aspects on which this reform affects, linked to the Senate, which must actually represent the instances of the local autonomy and the Regions. We have also debated the number of senators who are going to join the new House. Well, interesting considerations have been made: the number of senators is clearly linked to a cost problem; the more senators will be and the more money will be spent on the new House; the less and less money will be spent. This is therefore one of the criteria to be taken into account. The number of senators also affects the important aspect of the weights and balances between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. In particular, it has been pointed out that at this moment there is a disproportion between the number of Members and that of Senators, from which there will be certain risks to democracy, at certain specific moments in the life of the Republic. Let us think, for example, of the election of the President of the Republic, which can be led - let us say this - by the President-in-Office of the Council, if he finds a handful of senators in favour of the majority proposal: finding a dozen senators in a non-elective Senate is obviously easy and we have all discussed and pointed out that this is indeed a risk to democracy. At this moment I would like to put aside the considerations on the number of senators who will be composing the new Assembly, they are purely political in order to enter the substance of this subject from another perspective. I do so because it is completely consistent with what I said the other day in general debate, when I was talking about information. As a citizen and senator, I ask the Government, which drafted this bill and the rapporteurs - what criteria have been adopted in determining on time the number of senators who will be part of the new Senate. What were the arcane algorithms you used to determine this number? This issue has also changed because, in the face of a first hypothesis of 150 senators, 21 of whom were appointed by the President of the Republic, a second formulation has been introduced that reduces this number to 100, including the five appointed by the Head of State. I'd like to know how this number was determined. This is a reply which, precisely because it causes all the democratic problems that I have outlined earlier, you owe to the House and to the citizens all. There is a tacit rule, not written in any Constitution, on which we all agree, according to which the number of senators must be proportionate to the inhabitants of the country that the Assembly represents. None of you will be able to tolerate an excessive increase in senators by 3,000 or 10,000 for a country like Italy: it would be considered excessive by all. Similarly, I believe that all of you will agree that an extremely small number of senators - I think, for example, about ten or twenty - would not be able to perform those same functions of representation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is this unwritten rule. Arduo, however, is the task in determining which is the exact factor of proportionality, or rather optimal. What is the optimum number in the composition of an assembly so that it can be representative? In order to deal with this difficult issue, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary - as well as in other situations that we face every day in this House - to take into account what is happening in other European countries: that Europe of which we are part and to which we must look whenever we have to make important decisions. It is therefore necessary, in order to frame the problem of the number of senators, to verify what happens in other European countries, that is, what is the composition of legislative assemblies in other countries, especially those in which there is a high Chamber, so as to build the framework within which we place ourselves, both with the de facto state, that is with the current Constitution, and with the new Constitution, the one that will arise from the proposals of the Government and the amending proposals that I am illustrating here. We learn that in the United Kingdom, for example, there are 1,477 MPs, divided between 650 in the Lower House and 827 in the Upper House. Italy, as is well known, has 951 parliamentarians, while France 920, a number similar to ours. Germany, on the other hand, has 691, a considerably smaller number; Spain - and this is a country with which we still have to relate - has 614. These numbers alone, however, are not enough to build and outline the framework within which we must relate, so as to achieve what is the solution for the new legislative chamber. These numbers must be linked to the actual population of the States. The United Kingdom, for example, has a population of 62 million inhabitants, similar to Italy, with 60 million inhabitants. France has 65 million inhabitants, Germany 81 million, and Spain 46 million. It is therefore necessary to introduce a new parameter, the number of senators normalized to the population of the country. Since the number of parliamentarians per 100,000 inhabitants is traditionally used, Italy, with the numerical value of 1.6 parliamentarians per 100,000 inhabitants, is well above countries such as Poland, France (1.4), the Netherlands (1.3), Spain (1.3) and Germany whose ratio is even 0.8. Knowing that Germany is a country of great democratic tradition is what we must refer to: any proposal for reform, if it really wants to align with the great European democracies, cannot ignore this numerical figure and therefore our amending proposal, which provides for the lowering of the number of 380 MPs and 100 senators, would allow our country to align perfectly with the German figure. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u69	I would point out that amendment 1.0.101 cannot be signed as it is published in an annex with the word "rejected" in writing. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a very important issue in this constitutional reform is the protection of popular sovereignty. Among the changes proposed in the reform text indicated by the Government, it is reiterated, inter alia, that the Senate of the Republic exercises the role of liaison between the European Union, the State, the constituent bodies of the Republic and participates in the implementation of the legislative acts of the European Union. On the other hand, it seems to us that the Senate of the Republic has a role exclusively limited to carrying out the orders of the European Union, which has now taken over any internal decision of any sovereign State composed it, far beyond the limits of the actual competences authorized by the Treaties. It's a common phrase to hear now: It is Europe that is asking us to do so, and so we must do so. It would be better to say 'It is Europe that requires us', and so we come here to discuss what Europe requires us to do. All these words are intended to make you understand that we are subjects of Europe, under blackmail of the spread or of not granting credits: Europe and the International Monetary Fund are in charge at home. The worst of the worst has happened in Greece and Hungary, where European power has replaced democratically elected governments, imposing its own rules and directives in exchange for economic aid; aid that the country will still have to return with lots of interests, therefore nothing given away and absurd Germany, the one that always raises its voice, earns on the interests that the Greek people are paying with hunger. I do not exaggerate when I speak of hunger: there are no medicines, schools and hospitals closed. Europe, under the name "troika", saved the Greek banks and consequently avoided large losses to the banks that dominate Europe, but is causing the Greek people to die. This matter is very close to my heart, because I really fear that this Government (its Government, President Renzi) is on the right track to make us come to be like Greece. This is not the Europe of the peoples, it is not the Europe that has respect for the sovereignty and democracy of the state, but it is the Europe of the accounts in order, of the rigour and despair of the peoples, far from the problems of families and close to the affairs of banks and powerful. This overpower of the Community institutions has become stronger and stronger through the founding treaties, but whenever it had to clash with the popular vote, whenever it was possible to submit to referendum the ratification of a Community treaty, it came out defeated, the people rejected it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Here, however, we cannot, in Italy, carry out a real popular confrontation on the powers of the European Union, because our Constitution does not, or rather does not, generally prohibit the submission of international treaties to referendums. To be well considered, the new so-called "European Treaty" being defined, which represents an absolute novelty also compared to the previous ones and will create yet another institutional and functional tear, if it will be transposed in an ordinary way in our country, without taking into account its exceptionality and its effects, will in fact be an external body to the system of the Union, not elaborated with the procedures provided for by them. It will be an agreement between the Member States of the Union, but not as members of the Union, but as subjects of international law. The Union's own institutions will have to operate within a regulatory system that is alien to them. In order to avoid further transfers of national sovereignty, through ratifications of international treaties often without guarantees on how and under what conditions such sovereignty will be transferred, it would be necessary to amend it by enriching Article 80 of the Constitutional Charter, inserting an additional paragraph that states that the Chambers authorize, by constitutional law, the ratification of international treaties involving limitations of sovereignty. In this case, the particular procedure for the approval of the constitutional law provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, which, in the absence of qualified majorities required, will activate the referendary procedure, providing for a fundamental and indispensable popular confrontation in the case of delegation of competences and powers to supranational institutions, such as to call into question the sovereignty of our country itself. This, Mr President, in order to give the Italian people the right to express their opinion directly, because lately it seems to us that in this Government - you, in particular, Mr Renzi - has more grieved and gratified by the compliments of Merkel, than by the future of the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u71	Mr President, I support Amendment No 1.1931 and I am going to explain it. The amendment replaces the first period of paragraph 1 of Article 1, introductory wording The fourth paragraph of Article 5, which reads as follows: The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions of the Republic, with the following: The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial communities within the Nation. I'd like to make a few premises. I would point out that, if the 5 Star Movement's proposal to submit the main points of this reform to the citizens in advance by means of an advisory steering referendum, were accepted, we could in the immediacy in this House go on to discuss much more important issues for Italy and for Italians such as the problem of employment and employment. But that's it. I overcome this premise in the knowledge that you will never support this proposal, that is to consult citizens; not after the polls give 76 percent of Italians favorable to an elective Senate, that is exactly the opposite of what the Government pursues. Here, too, in the next few days, we will see a sea of misinformation. Probably even some lies will be told. If we are talking about lies, I cannot fail to mention yesterday's brief speech by Mr Boschi, who in turn mentioned Amintore Fanfani and said that lies in politics are not needed. Yet, gentlemen, this is a reform based on lies. It is the same film that we have already seen with the repeal of the Provinces: in fact not one has been repealed. And yet by repealing the provincial elections, yes, it has been suggested that the Provinces have also been repealed. And that's what you've been campaigning for. But the most serious thing is that it is the President-in-Office himself who feeds these false beliefs. I would like to mention one of his many tweets: "Via i senatori": "Via i senatori": "If it closes" (referring to the measure) "Italy changes towards "Via i senatori": "Via i senatori": "Via i senatori": "Via i senatori": "Via i senatori." Via the senators means the closure of the Senate, that is, its repeal: in reality nothing is repealed, except of course the election of the senators. So, Mr Boschi, I am sorry that you are not here: who is lying? Who told the citizens that there would be savings of EUR 1 billion? Then, probably one of Renzi's collaborators told him: "Mr. President, the Senate has a budget of 500 million: how does it save a billion?" The following day, the headlines appeared in all the newspapers: Via the Senate, savings for refunds and allowances of 500 million euros. In a previous speech, I had the articles in the newspapers, of course of national standing, which were titled in this way. Newspapers whose editor is Democratic Party Card No. 1. But this is also false! Quoting 500 million euros of savings, they made a mistake of about 450 million. I'm sorry if it's too little! They're crazy. Yet we are faced with a deliberate false because it brings popular consensus to talk about saving the costs of politics, but the problem is that you talk only about it. In the Commission, you reject all the amendments that go in this direction, in the direction of policy cost savings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The last lie I want to quote is to claim that this constitutional reform is not an authoritarian turning point in our country: the major constitutionalists support it, except one, and I do not quote them. It is supported by half Parliament with passionate speeches by representatives of all groups. It was not we of the 5 Star Movement who called it a frightening reform, but one of the most authoritative representatives, perhaps the most authoritative, of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So who is really lying, Minister Boschi? Returning to amendment 1,1931, Article 1 of the draft Constitutional Law renews Article 55 of the Constitution. It contains a list of the functions of a deeply revisited Senate, according to the most inconsistent of reforms: it is hypocritically maintained, for example, the denomination of the Senate of the Republic but the senators cease, according to the device of the bill, to share with the deputies the representation of the Nation, ex Article 67 of the Constitution, according to which each member of Parliament represents the Nation and exercises its functions without mandate. This is the only article in the Charter which expressly refers to political representation and which in the current text makes each Member of Parliament the representative of the nation, understood as a living representation of the community of the people; therefore, exclusively the Members, in the case of this bill, will represent the nation, not already the senators as children, evidently, of a minor god. The Assembly of the Senate becomes representation of the territorial institutions and no longer of the nation and of the people. This passage is particularly important because it encompasses the whole sense of reform. The Senate according to the proposers will no longer represent the people and the citizens, in theory it will not have the obligation to represent the interests of the citizens, but it will represent the local institutions. Each Senator will represent the institution that appointed him, therefore the respective Regional Council or rather the political party he belongs to and therefore the political secretariat that appointed him and endorsed his appointment. Indeed, for the nation to be represented, in the meaning of Article 67 of the current Constitution, it is necessary to come from regular popular elections. This is a particularly important point: a second degree electivity within members, however elected by the electoral corps to the local authorities, is clearly preclusive of any possible hypothesis of representation of the nation. In the matter of representation, according to the constitutional bill, the Senate will therefore represent the territorial institutions. This brings out many problems of constitutional legitimacy as well. With our amendment 1.1931 we propose, in paragraph 1, paragraph "Article 55," fourth paragraph, to replace the first sentence with the following: "The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial communities" - therefore no longer the territorial institutions - "in the context of the Nation." So there is a direct reference to the representation of territorial communities, but in the national context. With this amendment we call for the Senate of the Republic to represent territorial communities, but within the framework of the nation, and not only the institutions of origin, or ultimately the parties of origin, as in fact happens in this bill. The first part of the Constitution was fortunately not affected by the reform. One cannot therefore ignore the fundamental principle of Article 1 of the Constitution that the sovereignty of the people requires the construction of the order to be reserved for the sovereign people. In other words, our democracy attributes the creation of the right to the people within its representative institutions and certainly not to its local authorities or their representatives. They also claimed that the core of the constitutional organization... president. Senator Cappelletti, your time is over. Mr Capelletti (M5S). I'm going straight to the conclusion. We propose with our amendment that the Senate of the Republic represents the territorial communities within the Nation and therefore shared public interests, no longer formally institutions the territories belonging to it and, in the final analysis, its own party in the person of the political secretariat that designated and arranged the appointment of Senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u74	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senate House has been working since yesterday morning to examine a measure of extraordinary importance, which must therefore be examined, just as it has already been in the Commission, with all the attention, prudence and balance that this House is capable of. I note, however, that, from yesterday morning until today, we have not yet completed the illustration of the amendments to Article 1 of a measure consisting of 40 articles. The total number of amendments, as we know, is about 8,000, and allow me to show in its physical weight the volume which contains the amendments only in Article 1. Our desks do not allow us to keep, in order to be able to consult them, the volumes of the amendments so far printed. I do not go into detail, because I do not know the data, nor the amount of paper that has been consumed or the cost of the operation. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Same as the DEF, which we approved in half a day. ZANDA (PD). I mean, however, that, like any one of us is able to calculate, even roughly, at this rate this measure could not be completed in its examination even by 2014. The question naturally also has consequences on the progress of the works; on other draft laws that must be examined and on decree-laws that must be converted. Yesterday there was a request from an important parliamentary group (and it had already been made last week by another parliamentary group) for the Senate to open a debate on international policies. These are matters of great importance, on which we all need political confrontation and deepening. In order to understand where we are going, to understand what our intentions are, without making any point of order at this stage, but knowing that at some point the point of the point of order may be necessary, I ask that the Conference of Leaders be convened so that we can talk to each other and determine what path we intend to take together (I hope by common accord) and that we can plan so that the measure is examined with all the necessary accuracy, but knowing that this process of discussion of the amendments can ultimately lead to a relief. We're here because we all have a warrant. Our mandate is to examine the measures, with the activity that ultimately involves a decision. I am interested in listening to the Leaders, in confronting them, so that we can define a programme of our work. In this way we cannot move forward and I thank the presidency of the Senate if it wishes to convene the Conference of Leaders as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u75	The presidency of the Senate has already convened the Conference of the Leaders at 3 p.m., as well as communications which, at least to me, came just now from the Assembly Service. I think the group presidents have also been informed. I say this because, since there are other requests for intervention, it should be borne in mind that the meeting of the Conference of Leaders had already been convened, in truth even before President Zanda's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u78	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, you certainly tell half the truth if you inform the House that President Grasso has taken this decision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I do not tell a half truth, but a truth from the messages sent by the Assembly Service. Apologize to the presidency, Senator Ferrara. FERRARA Mario (GAL). You, Mr President, tell half the truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm telling you the truth, Senator Ferrara. I therefore call you to be correct in your way of expressing yourself. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I am a Leader and I am making a speech. You have the right to give me the floor and take it away from me if I say any inappropriate sentences. This is not an inconvenient sentence, and I urge you not to interrupt me anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Crosio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u79	Senator Ferrara, also the nature of our relations, which is of respect, allows me to reiterate that you cannot say a half truth. I gave some news, and I also told them how it was communicated to me. This is a fact that is not objectionable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u80	End your speech and support your reasons freely. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, she is reporting a half-truth. Let me make the argument and I'll prove it to you, or at least I'll try to do it. If you interrupt me, this cannot happen. After that, I could quote you at least thirty of your speeches in which the same respect that I am having for the Presidency has not maintained it. The President of the Senate, in convening a Conference of Leaders, certainly did not do so of his own free will, but for having already heard the Presidents of the major groups of majority and opposition. That's why it's a half-truth. The fact that you have "sniffed" that there has been this liberality conceals the fact that the presidency of the major group present in the Senate today is doing, or rather ringing, something that gives fulfillment to what in the speeches of some (and now also in my) is judged no longer as the legitimate aspiration of the majority to see approved their designs and proposals, but to what begins to denote itself as, if not a dictatorship of the majority, an arrogance of the majority. [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, Misto-ILC and the Minzolini, Bignami and De Petris senators.]] Indeed, I have already mentioned at the Conference of the Leaders that the only precedent of quotas for the work on amendments to the Constitution took place on 11 March 2004, after the work on the reform, which was not approved by the Italian people who voted against the confirmed referendum, had taken place from 22 January of the same year until 11 March and therefore 14 voting sessions of amendments had already been held. We are at the second voting session of amendments. In that case, among other things, there had been a special contingency, namely the sickness of Minister Bossi. A request was made and it was decided not to quote the timetable for the work, but to set a deadline for the work to be resumed on 25 March. But there is another great and total truth. It would suffice to see the minutes to understand, from the number of statements made by the opposition, that that amendment of the Constitution was made with a substantial agreement. To speak for the other half of the hemicycle were basically two senators: Senator Bassanini and Senator Amato. Senator Finocchiaro was not part of this branch of Parliament. I say this because I made the mistake of wanting to study its moves and behaviour and then I realized that it did not speak because it was not a member of this branch of Parliament. All the others were silent and only because there was a substantial agreement, the reform was made. Today, however, we want to do this reform without a substantial agreement. You want to do it with arrogance and you want to do it by interpreting the attitude of the President of the Council Renzi as a novello De Gaulle. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Minzolini.]] In the history of the changes of the Constitutions there is only one precedent in 1958 when De Gaulle, called after the French crisis in July 1958, had a special commission made up of illustrious constitutionalists, presented itself on September 11 (I read it in Senator Quagliariello's book) of 1958 and after three days of examination in the Chamber the amendment was approved. Renzi doesn't look like De Gaulle to me. France doesn't seem to me to be Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Minzolini.]] The crisis I believe is all Italian, and there is no OAS or others that translate to bring Italy back to more sad institutional situations. The role that is being played in this House today is that of a sad appearance. It is the appearance of those who play on two sides, because I see in the number and quality of the interventions of the majority a subtle will to make the country understand that everything that the majority is obliged to do from what is expected as a father master is not then so much congenial to their formation and their implied will. It is, however, playing on two sides in the sense that, if everything goes wrong, they get rid of Renzi and, if all goes well, they take possession of power. I would like to know, however: but if you, instead of Renzi, were Berlusconi, with the concern of putting everything into Berlusconi's hands, would you ever vote for such a reform? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator D'Anna]] The game is still on two sides because - as today said a journalist de "The Unity" in a broadcast of "La7" - it would be enough for Renzi to come here and announce to agree on the elective Senate to disassemble the entire opposition. Why don't you do it? The intention is to go to early elections, putting everything in hand and changing the composition of the parliamentarians both in the House and in the Senate? You don't understand. Actually, you don't know if there is or does. According to half of the Italian people there is, and it is overly presumptuous. [[Applause from the LAG and M5S groups]] I reminded him to read a book - which he told me he had read, although now I have doubts - that is, the day of the owl. It should be remembered, as Sciascia said, that in Italy, which is still a young country as far as democracy is concerned, perhaps there are too many pimps and that, at the same time, sometimes the captain of the carabinieri thinks he is good, but thinking that he is too good - I say it with the words of Zecchinetta - is also too presumptuous. [[Applause from the GAL, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u81	Senator Ferrara, with reference to my statement, I repeat to you that the Service of the Assembly... FERRARA Mario (GAL). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stay where you are. I was saying that the Assembly Service has just sent a message to the senators who are part of the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups and announced that it will be convened. FERRARA Mario (GAL). It's not like that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't yell. I'll call you back to order. Sit down and stay calm. If it is to seek protagonism like this, it is an old method that many know. FERRARA Mario (GAL). His observation is full of piccineria! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups had been convened before Senator Zanda's intervention. FERRARA Mario (GAL). The problem is the piccineria to which we are leading him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You scream all you want, you scream all you want! FERRARA Mario (GAL). I said you're telling half the truth.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u84	Since they have asked all the Presidents of the parliamentary groups to speak, I would like to point out that the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups will be held at 3 p.m. in this House. Please, Senator Mauro. MAURO Mario (PI). Mr President, having learned that the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups has been convened, but it is not at all unusual, but probably desired, coincident with Senator Zanda's requests, in order to make the work of the Group Leader even more concise and able to lead us to find balanced solutions, I would like to give Senator Zanda certain information on what is being spent on getting everyone to have the documentation. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] It is very simple, Senator Zanda: doing these things costs how much democracy and freedom cost! [[Applause from the PI, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] That's the price! That is what our freedom and democracy are worth! I believe that it would be desirable for the work of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups to deny what we have been listening to since this morning. I am referring to the statements by government representatives who already announce the guillotine, by cutting off Parliament's possibility of being free and guaranteeing a constitutional path of common sense and breaking up the freedom of the President of the Senate itself. [[Applause from the PI, M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups. The Senators of the M5S Group present the full text of the amendments.]] This is the price of freedom and democracy, the cost that Senator Zanda knows today. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u85	Moreover, incorrect figures on the costs of the Senate are also spreading to justify some reforms, so it could be said that democracy is priceless. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u88	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, President Zanda should know this, but I would like to explain to him, even if he is on the phone, how he is an ecologist. The important thing is to make sure everything is recycled, which is not the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps we could also recycle, Mr Zanda, all the dossiers of amendments tabled by so many members of your Group to the Berlusconi reform. President Zanda has chosen to hold this debate here in this House. We were all joined by journalists who told us that the President of the Democratic Party Group had asked President Grasso to convene the Conference of Leaders. From this morning we read in the newspapers statements by representatives of the Government who, instead of President Grasso and this House, and perhaps without reading the Rules, decide that the secret vote is not admissible; so we are witnessing their announcements of quotas and leghold traps. I'd like to say a few things quietly. We have been to the Commission, where we have raised a number of problems. To date, neither I nor many senators who participated in the Commission's work have received answers, especially from the Government. Today we are doing what is right and it is not only right, it is the duty of every senator, that is to explain his own positions and his own amendments. If President Zanda had been more careful, he would have heard a series of speeches in all these days, I quote Senator Azzollini who intervened earlier, who posed very serious problems from a technical point of view, or Senator Petraglia, who raised very serious issues from the point of view of the relationship between what some representatives of the Regions will decide here and those that will instead be the Executives. In essence, these are very complex issues, on which there are also gaps and contradictions in the text of the Government. Senator Zanda, this is not a measure like so many others, which, moreover, at the last meeting of the Leaders, you have consciously decided (I think of the decree-laws) to postpone the discussion on constitutional reform. It is you who have even chosen not to withdraw the Culture Committee's amendments in order to carefully prevent the so-called Culture and Tourism Decree from reaching this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups.]] And it is you who have chosen to postpone to after the examination of the "decree culture" also the discussion of the "decree competitiveness." Then there are two possibilities. The first is that these are measures which have no weight or relevance and perhaps in some cases refer to certain measures contained in the competitiveness directive, which I could say were harmful. In this case, you obviously need to change your measures. The second possibility is that, rather than giving answers to what is happening in the country, to its crisis, to the major social and employment problems - there is no day when jobs are not lost - we are carrying out this debate alone and only, and I do not know whether for a point of the President of the Council, for medals or - as has been said in this House - for other dark designs. As far as quotas are concerned, I do not think we should spend any more words. We are faced with a constitutional revision and not with a measure like the others, with another bill of conversion of the many different decree-laws that you make us discuss daily. Here we are discussing constitutional architecture, issues that concern the democratic system and the future of democracy not only of the Senate, but of our country more generally. I therefore believe that we all have the duty, and not only the right, to have a serious and in-depth debate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Minzolini]] It didn't happen. And to think of coming to contingency or, even worse, letting the newspapers even know that secret votes will not be admitted, is serious. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut, Misto-ILC, Misto-MovX and Senator Minzolini Groups]] And at least spare us the hypocrisy of pretending to ask the House to convene the Conference of Leaders, when yesterday we try to convene it, to decide the quota. At least assume the responsibility that you want to do so absolutely, and not only generically, undemocratic and really hurtful. I do not believe that there is a country in Europe, in Latin America or in any other reality in which we are now debating, where someone has thought of quoting the times of the discussion of a constitutional revision so heavy that it will have very serious effects for the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u91	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have heard a lot of arguments which, in theory, are perfectly acceptable. How can we fail to accept the fact that, for a constitutional revision law, all the necessary time must be provided for? How can we not imagine that, for such an important constitutional revision law, there should not be time to examine all the improvements and all the contributions? How can we not imagine this in a Chamber which, moreover, is at the forefront of this revision, where the senators themselves must feel called in trenches to defend, improve, requalify the work of constitutional revision that concerns this House? I have two examples in front of me. I remember how we did constitutional reform in 2005, and I say it not in a controversial tone. Many significant elements of that reform are found in the reform that we are going to do today. Unfortunately then there was a referendum that blocked its final approval, and certainly not for our stimulus. But I also have another example: the work done in the Commission. Senator De Petris, I have also spent a few days in the Commission and I must say that after the first evening we approved - on the one hand - the agenda for Calderoli and - on the other hand - the basic text of the Government, despite the fact that two documents were absolutely incompatible with each other, we gave meaning to the content that we would have liked to give to the draft constitutional revision. In the meantime, we opened up the possibility, technically speaking, of continuing the debate in the Commission. I think that choice was right because on the one hand we reiterated the concepts and criteria that were to inspire a law of constitutional reform and revision, but on the other hand we did not interrupt this process. The work in the Commission has been important; I am referring to the work of President Calderoli, President Finocchiaro and all those who participated in it. I remember that there was no obstructive attitude. I remember that there was a meeting on the basis of which at 3 p.m. it was decided that the work would end at 5.30 p.m. on the same day. It seems to me that this work was very important and very positive, because to that basic text that we initially voted, precisely in order not to interrupt the reform process, there were many and such changes to come to the text that is currently under discussion in this House, which is totally different from the initial text that presented the Renzi Government on that occasion. We therefore fully claim that we have participated as protagonists in this change. Today we are debating this House. I have done two things - I apologise for my concreteness - and 8,000 amendments, bearing in mind that every opposition group can make a speech of ten minutes, and therefore equal to 30 minutes, it is 240,000 minutes; if I am not mistaken the divisions, we are talking about 4,000 hours and therefore about 200 days. That is what we expect if we do not activate any mechanism that I do not say quotas or active guillotines or anything else, but that allows us in this House to re-produce the same way of concrete improvement as a text that we believe has been done in a Commission where it has worked well, but which can probably have some other possibility of improvement in this House. However, with 8,000 amendments and 200 days of work tending to be obstructive, I have the impression that this work is really very difficult to do. I do not give answers, but I just say that we need to understand well what the text that came out of the Commission is. It is an important constitutional revision project, which is particularly important for this House, for this Palace and for this 2,000-year-old institution. We need to do things right and then we need to overcome only a discussion of an exclusively obstructive character in order to perhaps finally enter into the merit of those eventual improvements of which our Group certainly still feels the need today. President Grasso did well to convene the Conference of Leaders and I think that in that meeting, without any kind of prejudice, but without any kind of conclusion, we can approach ourselves to find the ban of the skein that can lead to the solution of the problems that I considered appropriate on this occasion to evoke. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u94	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I do not really believe that what Senator Zanda said, and just now by Senator Romani, corresponds to reality: the Conference of Leaders will not be a place of confrontation or a place where proposals will be made that could or could not be legitimately shared. It will be the continuation of the mechanism already put in place in the Commission, i.e. the imposition of a basic text, very little time to examine and discuss the amendments, which are among the other delivered, I am not mistaken - my colleagues correct me - on Friday. I believe that what Senator Zanda asks today does at a very precise moment: he read what the President of the Republic said during the Ventaglio ceremony [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami),]] starting with the actual request to apply the leghold trap to this Chamber. In fact, a sort of photocopy of Minister Boschi, unfortunately, President Napolitano today stated on the reform of the Senate: Do not shake spectra of pitfalls and machinations of authoritarianism. And it continues: on the reforms the discussion was free, extremely articulated, there was no improvisation or sudden haste. That is what the President says according to an ANSA launch. I can't presume to own the historical memory of Senator Ferrara, but I've documented myself a bit and I'd like to integrate his words, varying some data quoted by Senator Ferrara. When, at first reading, the Senate of the Republic was granted to the Assembly to examine - at 34 sessions - the measure amending Part II of the Constitution, the Assembly began the examination on 22 January 2004 and ended it on 25 March 2004, after 34 sessions. Senator Zanda, I do not know how voluminous the number of amendments - in material terms, as you have shown today - were examined, in great tranquility and without any leghold trap, by the Berlusconi Government, 2,175 amendments. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Senators Minzolini, Pelino and Giovanardi Groups]] collected in a volume equal perhaps to half of what you have shown and that will certainly cost public money, but that is not a waste comparable to the millions of euros you take of electoral refunds and to which you have never wanted to give up. [[Applause from the M5S groups and the Senators Minzolini, Pelino, and D'Anna]] I would like to point out to this House, also in respect of what Senator Ferrara said, that the senators who reminded Senator Ferrara - and in particular Senator Bassanini - certainly intervened, but in an explanation of vote, such Senator Gavino Angius, who I think the left side of this House can remember very well. By helping me with the reading of the written report, I recall that the minority rapporteur, in the final part of his report, said things that I think can be widely applied to what we are looking at and that each of our colleagues in the government, particularly in the left side of this House, I believe must listen to, in order to reflect and experience them. In fact, Senator Bassanini said in his speech, referring to the Government: We have offered you in the Commission, on all these good alternatives, as the opposition has also done in this debate, all of which are consistent with the experience of the great federal states, we have offered you the willingness to correct some of the provisions of Article 117, such as those relating to shared competence in the fields of energy, communications and professions (...) We have offered you an alternative model based on German experience (...). Faced with unmotivated and unreasonable waste (...) we will fight our battle to the very end" happens, said the Senator of the then DS to the Berlusconi Government "We will not renounce to use any reasonable argument to convince you, lords of the majority." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Listen to this further passage from the intervention of Senator Bassanini, dear Senators of the Democratic Party and of the present majority: We appeal to the many in your ranks who care about the unity of Italy and the principles of democracy and freedom. Finally, he concluded: It does not serve Italy a new Constitution, which would last a few years and which the next legislature should change again. This is once again the same danger. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Minzolini, Pelino, and Liuzzi]] In addition, in the final explanation of vote, Senator Gavino Angius told the Assembly: "Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this law amending 40 articles of the Constitution. A government and a majority impose it on the country; they have a majority in this House, but they are a minority in the country. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] This is probably the end of this majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Angius of the Left Democrats said again: It is a minority that overwhelms a majority. They impose a sort of dictatorship of their parliamentary majority. Senator Angius was probably hallucinating if we were to refer to the considerations made yesterday by Minister Boschi. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups]] Are we hallucinating today? President of the Council and Minister Boschi: Senator Angius was also hallucinating. For him, when he exhorted the majority of then President Berlusconi, that was a law that called into question "shared goods and a common heritage" (look a little, dangerous trigger Senator Angius!). For him, that law called into question the same historical, political and cultural identity as our country.It cracked the sense of belonging to a national community, altering a balanced democratic structure built by all the democratic forces of our country after a struggle of liberation against fascism. "Always according to Senator Angius, that law gave even stronger powers to the head of the government, taking them away from the President of the Republic and affecting the role of Parliament." What more do you want than the words of one of your political parties to understand that there is no possibility of proceeding with the systems that you are imposing on us? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us also go to the Conference of the Leaders, rather - let us provoke you - since these are issues that affect the whole House, let us make it here the Leader Group, in the presence of all the senators! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u97	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, we are wondering why at such an important historical moment, which sees the treatment, not already of a measure - as President Zanda has said, perhaps hastily - but of a constitutional reform, which is quite another thing, once again the Minister is not present in this Chamber, not already the general Minister, but the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. [[Applause from the LNP groups and Senators Bell and Bignami]] Once again, we are not content with those who are currently sitting on the benches of the Government; we want the Minister. Having seen and considered, President Zanda and my fellow Members, that we are here democratically debating a constitutional reform that this Government wants to fill its mouth in front of the Italians, it is right that the highest representatives of this Government are here with us, with their majority, with the senators and with those who want to speak democratically of constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I listened very carefully to President Zanda's speech when he spoke of the weight of the documents. As Mr Mauro rightly said, this is the weight of democracy, President Zanda: this is called democracy. Every letter written in these documents is called democracy, because otherwise we talk about something else. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I am sorry that colleagues in the Democratic Party complain about the speeches: they should rather complain about what they will have to vote on later. [[Applause from the LNP and M5S groups]] I am also sorry that President Zanda says that this constitutional reform will be dealt with not before the end of 2014: we had said so at the Conference of the Leaders, if you remember, President: Senator Centinario had said so and other senators had said so, including the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who, if you remember, had also done the calculation of the necessary time. Mr Boschi told us, however, that he was optimistic; he said that this was the way to go. We also said, Mr Zanda, that we were concerned about the decree-laws: we said so at the Conference of the Leaders, and we said so on Thursday, but Mr Boschi told us that this must be the case. But then agree, dear President Zanda; agree with his Government, so that it is neither too optimistic nor too pessimistic. We are then asked for a Conference of Leaders: but the Conference has already been convened. I have noticed that I am allergic to mobile phones, text messages and phone calls: so how can the President of the Democratic Party not notice that the President of the Senate has convened a Conference of Leaders? That sounds weird. We would also like to have the President of the Senate in this House. Not to disrespect you, President Gasparri, but at a time like this when President Zanda makes such a request, there must have been President Grasso. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u98	However, the Conference of Leaders had already been convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u99	[[Comments from LN-AUT and M5S Groups]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). In addition, President Romans also complains about the times. Well, President Romani, the times are democracy; we are here to speak, to debate and to vote. These are the times of democracy, but if it was written in the Nazarene Pact that democracy had to be removed, then tell us and we will talk about it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignani]] Let us be clear at the Conference of the Leaders what you have agreed with the Nazarene Pact. But I, Mr President, and my fellow Members, am optimistic, because although we are already talking about leghold traps, night-time sessions, political earthquakes, nobody has yet officially talked about them. Therefore, with the hope that something will change, that there will be a different situation, I am optimistic that this will not happen because I still live in the optimism I had yesterday when I asked Mr Boschi in my speech to give us some answers and we are still here waiting for them. We are not obstructing it; we have tabled less than 100 amendments and in a constitutional reform measure less than 100 amendments deserve a response from the Government! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Senator Bignami Groups]] If the answer is the one that appeared yesterday in the newspapers that the Ministers prepare the coup threatening to keep us in the Senate Chamber day and night, in Ferragosto and New Year's Eve and whatever else (it is not a problem for me, we are all we want, this is democracy), if the answer is that given today by President Napolitano who anticipates that in his opinion everything is going well (maybe it is better to invite President Napolitano to attend the debate), if the answer is a summons, a few minutes ago, of the Conference of the Leaders group and the counter-answer of President Zanda who immediately asks for the convocation of the Conference of the Leaders doing nothing, then the doubt arises that he is preparing a coup [[Comments from the PD Group]] .. It doesn't matter how I pronounce it; I'm a poor country boy from the province of Pavese [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella]] As a result, dear professors who are sitting here in the Senate and can't even write a constitutional reform, correct me for the word, "golpe" and in the meantime try to write something decent for our citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I shall conclude by inviting a friend to a colleague who was telling me the other day that he is planning a mission to North Korea this summer. Dear colleague Razzi, don't throw away the money to go to North Korea, North Korea is in front of you! [[Live applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] CASTALDI (M5S). Bravo! Bravo! [[Senator Razzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u102	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, I shall immediately say, with only an apparent contradiction, that I particularly appreciated the speeches made by my fellow Members, Mr Zanda and Mr Ferrara. Mr Zanda, in fact, drew this House to an objective that should be shared, that of allowing our nation to renew its institutions after a long, very long debate (of about thirty years has been said several times in the speeches) according to an essential and modern state. We need to produce this reform immediately these days, on the eve of or at the beginning of the European Semester, because it is our credibility in our relationship with the countries of the Union to which we belong, but also with our own national community, because we really have a problem of credibility that primarily concerns our basic institutional structure, our democratic decision-making process, the efficiency and effectiveness of our institutions. But, at the same time, I would like to remind you that we will not be able to postpone such an ambitious reform to the autumn season, in which we will be engaged in economic and social reforms (I am thinking of the law of stability, one way or another, and the law of delegation to change our labour market). We therefore have an agenda that engages us in continuous work over the next few days to achieve a result. In my not short parliamentary experience, I have known the obstruction for practicing it and for having suffered it and on all occasions I have always found that it could not fail to have a limit in the right of the majority to express itself [[Comments of Senator Blundo]] All this said, I said that there were in the words of Senator Ferrara, first, some considerations that deserve appreciation because obstructionism is usually overcome, especially when it comes to redefining the common rules not only through the parliamentary regulation and the discipline of parliamentary work, but, dear representatives of the Government, also through the political initiative. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] It is clear that, in such a context, we need not only the appeal to the rules, but the appeal to that political initiative that the government must take, in particular, so that the consensus can be wider and may perhaps invest that basic aspect of the new Senate which consists in its electiveity. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Montevecchi.]] So think about the government. We are a loyal component of the majority, but we are aware that we are going to write a page so important that it cannot be resolved only with regulatory aspects. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Centinario, Compagnone, Minzolini and Perrone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u105	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I do not think this is the time to discuss whether we should move towards the debate on what our preferred model is between decision-making democracy and participatory democracy. Of course, none more than those who have arrived in a meaningful and important way, even numerically, in this Parliament, in the wake of the inconsistency of the policy of these twenty years in putting decisive hands on the reform of the institutions, should understand how the balance between the needs of the debate and the needs of the decision is a very important fact in order to move forward. Four months of discussion... You're saying falsehood! There are only 200 amendments. Sunta (SPI). Wait a minute, 'cause maybe there's something else. Four months of debate in the Commission, I was saying, together with a debate like that which took place in the last few days in this House on the general structure of constitutional reform, should suggest a mutually constructive attitude. CASTALDI (M5S). There are 200 amendments! Sunta (SPI). I believe that the request, which has been made, to put back a moment of reflection to the Leaders is not only due to the desire to arrive at quotas or leghold traps, but to the need to understand, in that place, whether, in a transparent way, there is a ground for confrontation between the majority and the oppositions. It also serves to understand whether within the framework of the reform, on important issues such as the forms of direct participation, the audience for the election of the President of the Republic, the articulation of the Republic in local and regional autonomy, it is possible to find solutions that avoid the transformation of this debate into a debate between those who support an authoritarian democracy or are convinced that they want to move towards forms of authoritarianism and those who instead blandish the flag of democracy and rights, dear Senator Mauro. This is the theme. Among us, especially among this majority, with - even if it is not my own - a party that has still recently been legitimized even more strongly to start the reform process, and those who have put themselves very much in the way of this process, who certainly cannot say that they have obtained a mandate to defend their positions, I believe that there should be an opportunity for everyone to find a point of convergence. So let the Conference of the Leaders be this first of all: not the instrument, the opportunity and the place to go to ask, beyond any will even today, immediately, a hasty race, but where to understand in a transparent way if there is a land of confrontation. But let it be clear, if this area of confrontation is not in the headquarters of the Leaders, it is clear that the right and also the duty, towards the public who has legitimized them, to bring to completion the reform process that we have begun, cannot be excluded from the forces of majority. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). But who legitimized you? Zero percent? No one legitimized you to you! You don't exist out of here! You're a majority, but you're not legitimate. Remember that! Sunta (SPI). I therefore believe that this meeting of the Leaders is absolutely useful, and in this spirit we will participate in the Conference and I hope that everyone, beginning with the opposition, will participate in this same spirit. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u108	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, despite some vocalizations that introduce my speech, I believe that a moment of reflection on the part of everyone is necessary. I had some concerns before speaking, because the length, the richness and the depth of the reflections that have characterized the debate in these days should lead us not to a further procrastination but, I believe, to a reflection, of each of us with himself, in assuming the responsibility for a decision, since we are talking about a draft law that gives rise to a constitutional reform. Let me, at this moment, officially carry out a reflection that is very uncomfortable, because, discussing a constitutional reform, I see a continuous and constant mix of personalistic reflections, partisan interpretations, sometimes I could say currents, internal struggles and diatribes that have nothing to do with the delicacy and depth of the discussion that we are facing in these days. Already in our so-called pre-political life, which has characterized so many of us, we had been waiting not only for a reform of the Senate, but for a broad reflection on constitutional reforms and I think the time has finally come. I have been talking about a debate which has been going on for several years and a debate which has lasted for several months in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a very detailed debate in which I had the honour of participating and during which I was able to see that everyone was indefectably involved in what is termed the majority, the minority or the opposition, in a constructive and productive way. Thanks also to the presidency of Senator Finocchiaro and President Calderoli has given himself the opportunity to take a path that I could call virtuous. The text which was approved in the Commission is certainly not the original text. I am convinced that other changes will take place through the work of the House, but everything has a time, everything has a limit. The fundamental dialectic, the arguments on such a delicate subject, however, must have an end. What's an end? That of reaching a conclusion where everyone decides in a strong and conscious way, without further procrastinating the decision itself. I believe that this certainly ennobles the work of this House, but it absolutely does not inhibit freedom of expression. The discussion of these days, as I said, has been very rich, full-bodied in content and also with regard to the so-called time and time limits. No one has had the need to limit themselves and I believe that this wealth must be immediately poured out and reverberated in taking responsibility in the vote and in the analysis of the amendments. I do not want to provoke - believe me on the floor - the irritation of someone, but from a certainly not in-depth reading on my part, but careful enough on the various amendments, it can be noticed that some of them have a very profound reflection and argument in the area of constitutional law, while others for the truth have only one motivation, that of procrastinating and postponing as much as possible: they are amendments that have taught me to be defined as serial or, using a terminology that belongs to computer science or to networks, almost viral, which essentially have the function of postponing as much as possible. Can we still afford it and wait for more months and years? Because the reform and innovation season is now and is not given further procrastination. I believe that this wants to represent a calm and contentistic reflection, which induces us to go beyond the dimension of part and makes us truly responsible members of this Senate and therefore Constituents. [[Applause from Senator Cociancich.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u110	He had already asked to speak with the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, and I remind you that the Parent Group has already spoken with him. Can you tell us the reason for your intervention? IN MAY (PI). Of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you can see, I gave the heads of groups the floor, without wanting to censor anyone. IN MAY (PI). You are absolutely right, Mr President, but since this is not the Conference of Leaders, but the Senate Chamber, I believe that the senators can speak on the issues, since you have told us that there will be a Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u111	[[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u112	If you do it in time economy...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u113	IN MAY (PI). Sure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since I think it is important to listen to the rapporteurs for the debate. Please, Senator Di Maggio, you have the floor. IN MAY (PI). I'll see if I can do this as soon as I can. Mr President, sometimes, to want to be more realistic than the king, things happen that we have witnessed this morning, for example the debate between you and Senator Ferrara. The leader Zanda has given us some news that you have already told us in this House, so obviously the passage has been anticipated, and this is practically a form that has little to do with... I mean, these are caste games, and we're not caste. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u114	Senator Di Maggio, I gave you the floor, even though you were the second senator to intervene for your group. I repeat this once again: the Assembly Service had communicated, before Senator Zanda's intervention, to the people who are members of it that the Conference of the Leaders was convened. This is a fact not an opinion, and it is not a toy of the caste. Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u115	Perfect. However, since we have been in this House and have participated in the debate, I would like to be frankly hallucinated at the moment because perhaps, if that could be the case, I should say that everything that has happened here is not a reality. But the reality is quite different and what we live here is absolutely absurd. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We see the majority that makes the opposition and the government that refuses to present those that should be urgent decrees. There is no more urgency on decrees that are extremely important for the life of our country [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Bignami),]] Like that on competitiveness. As a senator, I intend to intervene for a very simple reason: I realize that, in the end, the dignity of us Members of Parliament is damaged here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This Senate is actually a government hostage. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Campanella.]] A House of Parliament that is hostage to the government. This is the fundamental fact on which we must reason. If that's the case, when are you bringing the group leader together? Last week you gave us the schedule of this Chamber's work until August 8: who intervenes to change? Is the Conference of the Leaders or is it Palazzo Chigi who sets the road map for this Parliament? [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Campanella.]] I would therefore like to give my advice to the Conference of Leaders: do not put under your feet the dignity of this Parliament; do not go all the way to quota, because this could really be the last act of this majority which cannot propose a reform of the Constitution which, as you well know, Mr President, is not an ordinary law. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u118	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, as rapporteurs, we will try to give an order to work that does not have an order. Frankly, I am very concerned about the way we are taking in relation to other reforms. This is what a person who believes (and does not want to say "believed") that he wants to reform. We are taking a road in which I had tried to give some suggestions yesterday, in my brief reply; they seemed perhaps very silly and trivial as suggestions, but I realize now that they were essential. I spoke yesterday to her mother-in-law for her mother-in-law to understand. The daughter-in-law listened to me, because she made a statement saying she was also available for the withdrawal of the amendments, but unfortunately no one called me. We have been waiting for the Government for more than two months for answers to points put by the opposition and the majority; these answers must be given by the Government at this point in order to be able to continue in our work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I say this on the basis of these three tomes, which have an important dimension (although the DEF, which had a similar dimension, we approved it in half a day). I am certainly concerned about the cost, because we have produced 3,000 pages of unrecycled paper (it seems a trivial aspect but an institution should also think about such aspects), but I am perhaps the only one who has looked at the composition of these three tomes. If the first two volumes (of 1,900 pages) are dedicated to two articles, while another 700 pages are dedicated to the other 38 articles, the problem is evidently placed in the first two articles. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I and my colleague, Mr Finocchiaro, for whom I think I can speak, have put our face in the Commission, in front of the opposition and the majority, asking for the withdrawal of certain amendments because we would have dealt with these issues in this House; I do not want to fail in this commitment which we have undertaken with majority and opposition. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Because if the names of the people who have signed those amendments occur, it will be seen that there are those of opposition, those of majority, the so-called dissidents of the majority, but there are also absolutely orthodox signatures that are consistent with the majority. Perhaps, therefore, a reflection on those aspects is absolutely necessary. Has this debate on Article 1 been a long one? Yes. Have any arguments and interventions been - let's say - imaginative? Yes. For me, however, and also for my colleague Finocchiaro, many of these have produced useful results and suggestions that need to be translated into something. Therefore, beyond the question of the group leaders (it is clear that I go there with the helmet and the machine gun, not unarmed), I believe that the rapporteurs need a time space to be able to make proposals especially on Article 55, sometimes used improperly to be able to intervene on Articles 56 and 57. But everything is concentrated in those three articles. If solutions are found for the first three articles, the first two tomes (the larger ones) containing the amendments disappear. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Bignami.]] But we want political answers. As rapporteurs, we have the need - bearing in mind the Conference of Leaders (I hope that President Grasso is listening to us) - to have a temporal space so that everything we have heard can be put in black and white and can be compared with the Government with this proposal. Then we start again and, maybe, we go even a little faster. I have heard someone, I hope more at the journalistic level, who has spoken of guillotine; to that someone and to those who have spoken about it in this House I remember Rule 72, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution provides that for constitutional bills the normal procedure for examining the House should always be adopted. Otherwise, if someone were to use the guillotine, I believe that the first heads that fall are that of the reform and that of the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami, Bell, Minzolini and Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u119	A number of requests have been made for an end-of-session speech, but I do not think that all of them can be carried out now, both because of the timing and the importance of the debate. Two senators asked to intervene on the third anniversary of the massacre of Utoya: Senator Buemi and Senator Astorre. If in compatible times you want to carry out, having reported them in time, we can proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u120	Mr. President, I was there first. I'd like to reflect on the verb you used when addressing Senator Ferrara...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u121	This is not a topic of discussion...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u122	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). It's important. I want to know if you can use these expressions, because then I could also use terms like "pigola", "moo", "moo." PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you want, I'll give you a list of the verbs that have been used in Parliament. We'll get it in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u125	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I call on my fellow Members to pay attention because the subject I intend to deal with in this late speech is extremely tragic. Henrik Rasmussen, (18 years), from Hadsel; Modupe Ellen Awoyemi (15 years old), of Nigerian origin; Johannes Buø (14 years old), from the Svalbard Islands; Tamia Liparteliani (twenty-three years old), Georgian; Carina Borgund (12 years old), from Oslo; Bano Abobakar Rashid (12 years old), of Kurdish origin: who are these illustrious strangers? Is there anyone in this House who has any idea who these strange-named aliens are? Well, these young people, unknown to most, are martyrs of freedom and socialism. In Utoya, since Willy Brandt had short shorts, young socialists from all over Europe gather for summer camp, regardless of sex, race, religion. It was an opportunity to talk about politics, to meet peers of different worlds, to play guitar and (why not?) to give himself the first kiss. Anders Behring Breivik, nationalist and xenophobic, wants to kick all immigrants out of Europe by 2083. He hates multiculturalism and hates the thought of those who want to build bridges between peoples. Utoya is the perfect target. A pure, blonde Norwegian singing around the fire with a treacherous, bullying Muslim? This is unacceptable. It is the road leading to the caliphate and the Eurabia. You have to act, but how? For three years Breivik writes the political manifesto of 1,500 pages: he quotes with full hands anyone who sees Islam as a danger to the West, from Fjordman to Oriana Fallaci. But thought is not enough. Then he entrusts his criminal fantasy to an idea: rent a farm in order to buy fertilizer with ammonium nitrate without raising suspicion; train at the range; program in detail the massacre that will have to change course and illuminate the road for nationalists who want to save the identity of the individual European countries. The first move is a truck loaded with ammonium nitrate, exploded under the offices of the Norwegian Labour Prime Minister Stoltenberg. The dead are eight. It's July 22, 2011, exactly three years ago, just after 3:00. That, in the end, is a diversion. The real goal is the small island of Utoya, where at 17:17 there is a massacre in seventy-seven minutes, unprecedented in Western Europe after the Second World War. Breivik, dressed as a cop, mercilessly kills one to one 69 teenagers, often underage, ending the wounded with a blow to the head. At the trial, the racist killer will say: I apologize to the relatives of the victims of the government building. I do not apologize at all to the families of the young people of Utoya, because they were political militants. It was a political massacre all round. Well, what do the Italians and Europeans remember about that massacre? Has it been told to the public? Spielberg made a movie? Did Vespa do specials on TV? No, just a deafening silence. The media first crossed the false Islamic trail, then, from July 24, 2011 onwards, there was the omission of the adjectives "socialist" and "laburist" from all the front pages of the main Italian newspapers, except the Catholic "Avvenire". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm done, Mr. President. He preferred to talk about a madman who killed campers without any political color. The main Italian parties also turned to the other side and I invite colleagues to reread the Report of the House of the House of 27 July 2011. The newly reconfirmed Legist MEP Borghezio defined Breivik's ideas in an interview in some very good cases. Evidently a massacre of young socialists, who believe in multiculturalism and brotherhood among peoples, is not convenient. It is not convenient for those who move the levers of power or for those who want to ally themselves with Marine Le Pen or even with Jobbik. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] So, we need oblivion. I'm not one of those who turned the other way. I, in this solemn Senate Chamber, which many of you would like to reduce to a B-series assembly, say that the martyrs of Utoya will not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u126	Thank you, Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u127	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I shall conclude, Mr President, but allow me to express my last thoughts to the desperate people who die in the Mediterranean to escape poverty and war. It is a thread that also arrives in Gaza, where the voice of those who want dialogue is increasingly frail. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Buemi, you used twice as much time as you expected for this type of intervention. If you wish, you will be able to deliver the written text of your speech in order to be annexed to today's report. The opportunity is solemn, but - I repeat - it has already been given twice as much time. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). It is a thread that also reaches the heart of Pope Francis, who wanted to go to Lampedusa on his first trip as Pontiff. It is the thread for which Matteotti, Rabin and thousands of socialists and Labourers were killed, who have always hoped for a more just and peaceful world. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Senators Puppato, Campanella and Cuomo. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u129	You have the right to do so. I would ask you, however, to stick to the timetable for speaking on matters not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u130	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, as has already been said, three years ago, on 22 July 2011, the most heinous massacre in Western Europe since the Nazis and the Second World War was consumed. On the island of Utoya, Norway, a decade-long summer destination for European Socialists all over the world, Anders Behring Breivik, a fanatic nationalist, xenophobic and extreme right, killed one by one 69 young Labourers and socialists, most of whom were underage. He killed them mercilessly for a political motive: he killed them because he wanted to punish the ideals and values of those who believe in multiculturalism, in the solidarity of peoples and in the European Union. Breivik wrote a 1,500 - page political manifesto and sent it two hours before the massacre to 8,109 e-mail addresses across Europe. In this manifesto, drawn up between 2009 and 2011, Breivik had set himself the goal of kicking all immigrants out of Europe, especially Muslims, was said, by 2083. But why 2083? Because it is a symbolic date, as it falls 400 years after the siege of Vienna of the Ottomans in 1683. In order to achieve this goal, the killer listed the parties he considered potentially friends: among others, the Le Pen in France, the League and Forza Nuova in Italy, the Freiheitliche Partei in Austria, the PVV in Holland and so on. The Norwegian killer, sentenced to the maximum of the sentence, has been declared sane of Norwegian justice. He himself said at the trial: If you declare me crazy, I will appeal, because this would nullify the political significance of my action. On the other hand, if I were a bearded jihadist, no one would give me the psychiatric evaluation. These events of 2011, shocking and at the same time warning, have been practically concealed from public opinion. Nobody remembers Breivik in Italy and everyone continues to think that he was a madman who killed campers, this because the media erased from the front pages of the newspapers the adjectives "socialista" and "laburista" and it was said. The only exception in the Italian panorama was Luca Mariani's book "Il silenzio sulle innocenti" (The Silence on the Innocent). Well, I believe that the Italian governments of the center-left in this legislature can boast a credit to the world. This is the merit of Operation Mare Nostrum and I do not miss that on June 23 the Norwegian premier Erna Solberg, conservative, in her visit to Rome has personally gone to the command of the Harbour office and the Coast Guard to the EUR to shake hands and see closely the operating room where decisions are made that save the lives of thousands of desperate. I therefore believe that we can claim credit for this world: this merit is Operation Mare Nostrum, which does not turn its back on the poor human beings who risk their lives in order to escape war and poverty. Then there are bigger problems than we do, such as hunger in the Third World, which must be solved globally, there are issues relating to the distribution of refugees within Europe, but one thing is certain: if Italy is a civil country, it cannot let anyone drown, ever. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barozzino. Senator Puglisi repeatedly asks to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u131	The sitting was closed, so the other speeches were postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-286.ana.u132	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 14.06 a.m.
