ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u3	Senator Petrocelli, it is as the new Leader of the 5 Star Movement that I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u4	[[Applause.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1429, 7, 12, 35, 67, 68, 125, 127, 143, 196, 238, 253, 261, 279, 305, 332, 339, 414, 436, 543, 574, 702, 732, 736, 737, 877, 878, 879, 907, 1038, 1057, 1193, 1195, 1264, 1265, 1273, 1274, 1280, 1280, 1281, 1355, 1368, 1392, 1395, 1397, 1406, 1408, 1415, 1416, 1420, 1426, 1427 and 1454. The rapporteurs, Senators Finocchiaro and Calderoli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft reform law for Part Two of the Constitution arrives today at the Senate House in a text which is profoundly and - in my opinion - very well engraved on the Commission's examination. After a very in-depth debate, which has also benefited from the technical and doctrinal ideas of the cognitive investigation that preceded it, a text has been reached that, while remaining fully adherent to the cornerstones of the reform, must be considered to be significantly enriched and specified in its overall system. The Commission has worked, in particular, on three lines of action, each of which aims to strengthen, better specifying them, the fundamental objectives of the reform. The first is the redesign of the nature and functions of the Senate, in the framework of a reform which, while placing the second Chamber outside the Government-Parliament Trust Circuit, places it at the centre of the national and supranational constitutional order, in a position of link between the institutional bodies of the European Union, the State and the territorial authorities and between the State and the Community legislature. As a Chamber expressly voted for the competition, training and implementation of Union law, the Senate is also seeking to become - with an absolutely innovative formula on a continental scale - the special place for the exercise of those new and wider prerogatives of participation in the Community decision which the Treaty of Lisbon recognizes as "each of the national parliaments or in each House of one of these parliaments." It will not escape anyone that this structure can be a powerful factor of European integration for our country. The second front on which the Commission has measured itself is the overcoming of equal bicameralism according to a model of constitutionalism that incorporates, adapting it, also the system of guarantees provided by the Constitution in 1948. The effort, in this case, was to address the overall constitutional structure resulting from the reform, having regard to a careful recalibration of all the provisions and institutions placed to guarantee and balance the institutional system. Finally, the Commission's examination focused on the third qualifying aspect of the reform: the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution and the reorganization of the system of territorial autonomy, in terms of the division of legislative powers and the respective margins of financial autonomy. In this case, the effort has been to combine, even with the commitments that our country has assumed in supranational context, the valorization of territorial autonomy with the needs of unitary government of public finance. The result was, in the end, a text which, while maintaining its original features, has, after its first parliamentary scrutiny in the Commission, been a port point, already very solid and advanced, for the benefit of the speed and effectiveness of the process of constitutional reform that has begun here. I will take into account, of course, in a schematic form, but I also hope on time, the substance of the text. One of the qualifying aspects of the reform is the overcoming of equal bicameralism, through the definition of a new differentiated bicameral system, which sees the Titular Chamber exclusively as the trusting relationship with the Government and the Senate, as the representative body of the territorial institutions. To this end, Article 55 of the Constitution has been amended, introducing an ex novo list of the functions of each of the two chambers, as differentiated in relation to the new bicameral structure, and a statement on the nature of their representation. If the House is maintained the representation of the nation, as it is linked to the political nature of its mandate, the Senate is reserved for the representation of territorial institutions. With regard to functions, not only the legislative function, but also the function of political direction and control over the work of the Government are expressly attributed to the Chamber, according to an innovative formula compared to the current Constitution, which to date mentions only "the political direction" in Article 95, with reference to the functions and prerogatives of the President of the Council of Ministers. Compared to the original proposal for a law, the text approved in the Commission restores the name of "Senato della Repubblica" instead of "Senato delle Autonomie" and amends, supplementing, the functions assigned to it. In addition to the role of liaison between the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic (Regions, Metropolitan Cities and Municipalities), participation in the ascending and descending phases of European Union law and the function of verifying the implementation of laws - already provided for in the original text - the Commission's text also assigns to the Senate the functions of evaluating the activities of public administrations and, in general, of monitoring public policies, of strengthening the prerogatives of guarantee and union over the work of the Government recognized in the Second Chamber. In this key, the Senate is recognized as a further and peculiar prerogative of control, in the form of the competition to the expression of opinions on appointments of government competence. With regard to the composition and election of the Senate, the examination carried out in the Commission led to a significant modification of the original plant, starting from the number of members of the Senate that was further reduced. The total number of senators is therefore fixed in 100, of which 74 are elected by the Regional Councils and the Councils of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano among their members, 21 are elected by the same Regional Councils among the mayors of the Municipalities of the Region to the extent of one for each; and finally five senators (in place of the originally planned 21), can be appointed by the President of the Republic among the citizens who have illustrated the homeland for the highest merits in the social, scientific, artistic and literary fields. The latter last seven years and cannot be renamed again. By a standard approved in the Commission under the final provisions, it has also been specified that they cannot in any case exceed the total number of five, taking into account the senators of law and life and the remaining office of life senators already appointed on the date of entry into force of the constitutional law. The same norm also crystallizes in the Constitution the general system of election of senators by the Regional Councils, providing that the seats are allocated by the proportional method. These criteria are in turn identified, for the purposes of the first application of the new framework, as part of the final provisions of the constitutional bill, in order to make the electoral mechanism immediately operational, without the need for subsequent legislative acts. As regards the identification of the procedures for carrying out the electoral procedure, it is subject to a law approved by both Chambers, which also regulates the procedures for replacing senators in the event of termination of the regional or territorial elective office. Finally, it is expected that the distribution of seats between the Regions will be carried out in proportion to their population, as a result of the last census, since no region can have a number of senators less than two. On an amending proposal from the rapporteurs, the Commission has introduced a provision on the incompatibility of senators accessing offices in the Senate bodies. With a novella in Article 63 of the Constitution, the Senate's Rules of Procedure have been put in place to identify cases in which election or appointment to office in the Senate bodies may be limited due to the exercise of governmental, regional or local functions. The intention is to avoid the accumulation of the representation of monocratic institutional bodies of different nature and extraction in the same subject. At the same time, on a proposal from the rapporteurs, a provision has been introduced in the Commission which puts the guarantee of the rights of parliamentary minorities to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies. It is therefore ensured constitutional coverage of regulatory principles that, in various ways, qualify as "status of oppositions." Another innovation introduced in the Commission concerns the duties of Members of Parliament to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the work of the Commissions. Again, the constitutional constraint is aimed, firstly, at strengthening the requirements of the parliamentary regulations in the light of a stronger and more direct accountability of the individual Member of Parliament in relation to his institutional duties. With reference to the verification of the powers of the members of the Senate, the examination in the Commission led to the restoration of the judicial function of the Senate in the matter of admission certificates and cases of ineligibility and incompatibility, in place of the mere audit provided for by the Government's text. Article 66 is the basis of the present self-report on the verification of powers, i.e. the conferral on the Chambers of their competence to exercise their judicial function definitively. The subtraction of this competence from the Senate would therefore constitute the denial of one of the forms in which the self-dedication of the Chambers is expressed, as organs today fall - as the Constitutional Court recalls - among those directly involved in the sovereign power of the State, and therefore located at the top of the order, in a position of absolute independence and mutual equality. In the same spirit, the Commission has also provided for the reinstatement of Article 68 of the Constitution in the current text, with recognition to the senators of the same immunity regime already provided for Members. In this regard, the Commission's decision had no merit whatsoever in relation to the appropriateness and adequacy of the scope of parliamentary immunity applicable to senators and Members respectively, but focused solely on the systemic coherence of a differentiation, such as that of the Government's text, which would not appear and appears to be adequately justified. Therefore, an additional reflection may be necessary with regard to the contents and perimeter of immunity for the components of each Chamber. As it is entirely consistent with the new configuration and composition of the Senate, the differentiation between the members of the two Chambers, already provided for by the government bill, in the matter of parliamentary allowances remains unchanged: their payment is limited to members of the Chamber of Deputies. As regards the legislative procedure, the Commission's reading has led to some specific but significant changes in relation to the original plant with regard to Articles 70 and 72. Firstly, the law for which the legislative function is exercised collectively by the two chambers has been extended. The laws of revision of the Constitution and other constitutional laws, already provided for in the text of the Government, have been added to the laws of implementation of the constitutional provisions in the matter of popular referendum; the laws authorising the ratification of the treaties relating to the belonging of Italy to the European Union; the laws in the matter of the organization, electoral legislation, governing bodies and fundamental functions of Municipalities and Metropolitan Cities and the laws with provisions of principle on the associative forms of the Municipalities (for the implementation of Article 117, paragraph 2, letter p) of the Constitution; the law on the fundamental principles of the electoral legislation of the Regions (Article 122 of the Constitution); and finally all the laws for which a reservation of approval by both Chambers is provided in the Constitution. In the light of this enlargement, the Commission has therefore also recalibrated the scope of the subjects for which the text of the reform provides for an enhanced approval procedure - in the terms of a final vote by absolute majority - in the event that the House does not comply with any proposed amendments to the Senate. In the text approved by the Commission, therefore, the draft laws on the following subjects are subject to the enhanced procedure: Rome Capital Law; the government of the territory and civil protection; the exercise by the State of the supremacy clause; the delegation of regulatory power to the Regions; agreements between Regions and foreign States; coordination between the State and the Regions in matters of immigration, public order and security, the protection of cultural goods, financial relations with territorial authorities; the exercise of the government's replacement power, the posting of Municipalities from the Regions. With regard to the draft budget law, the provision of the original text, which provides for the examination of the Senate within fifteen days of the approval of the Chamber, has remained unchanged, without the need to activate the call through the prescribed number of senators. In such a case, the House may not comply with the Senate's proposed amendments, re-approving the text by an absolute majority, but only on condition that the Senate has in turn resolved such proposals by an absolute majority. In the course of the examination, the profile of the politically straightforward nature of the draft budget law and its full relevance to the political responsibility of the Government and its majority can be assessed more punctually. With regard to the parliamentary examination procedure, the amendments made by the Commission focused on the so-called priority examination procedure - introduced ex-novo by the reform - according to which the Government may request the Chamber of Deputies to decide that a draft law be placed with priority on the agenda and put to final vote within 60 days of the request. The Commission, in the first place, has foreseen that these draft laws should be designated by the Government as essential for the implementation of the Government's programme. But above all it has introduced a reserve of normal procedure for the draft laws on constitutional and electoral matters, in the matter of legislative delegation and the conversion of decree-laws, as well as for the laws authorising the ratification of international treaties and the approval of budgets and accounts. These laws therefore preclude access to the priority examination procedure. In this respect, I would like to refer to the comments I made earlier on the politically straightforward nature of the draft budget law. The rapporteur's amendment also introduced an amendment to the provisions of Article 71 concerning the popular legislative initiative aimed at revitalising and strengthening a tool for direct democracy which, although provided for in 1948, was not sufficiently exploited. To this end, if on the one hand the number of subscriptions required for the presentation of the bill of popular initiative has risen to 250,000, on the other hand, it has been introduced, a provision which obliges the Parliamentary Regulations to provide for these measures certain times of examination and final vote. With the same aim of strengthening and enhancing the constitutional instruments of direct democracy, the Commission has also introduced in the text a reform of Article 75 of the Constitution, on the subject of a repealing popular referendum. The main innovation relates to the quorum for the validity of the referendum, which has been lowered and made mobile, in the sense that it is linked to the participation in the last elections of the Chamber, i.e. the number of voters during the last election of the Chamber. In particular, according to the new provision, the proposal subject to a referendum is approved if the majority of the voters who participated in the last election of the Chamber of Deputies participated in the vote and if the majority of the votes cast validly are reached. Against the background of the lowering of the quorum, the number of signatures required for the referendum is raised to 800,000, but the deadline is doubled to six months. Finally, in order to prevent such a broad popular mobilization on questions which may prove inadmissible, it was envisaged that the Constitutional Court's eligibility examination should be carried out within three months of the beginning of the collection, when the referendum request is signed by at least 400,000 citizens. Another qualifying innovation introduced during the examination in the Commission is the possibility of submitting the draft law on the election of the Chambers to a preliminary judgment of legitimacy by the Constitutional Court. The aim of the rule is evidently to avoid the eventuality - which occurred with the 2005 electoral reform - of the repeated exercise of the electoral function on the basis of a discipline burdened by profiles of constitutional illegitimacy, otherwise sanctionable only ex post in a incidental way, with what follows in terms of the alleged loss of authority of the elected Chamber with an illegitimate system. To this end, the text proposed by the Commission provides that the laws governing the election of members of the Chamber and of the Senate may be submitted, before their promulgation, to the Court's prior judgment of constitutional legitimacy, on a reasoned appeal lodged by at least one third of the members of a Chamber and that, in the event of a declaration of constitutional illegitimacy, the law cannot be promulgated. The reform also intervenes on Article 77 on the matter of urgent decrees, with the aim of giving importance as a constitutional rule not only to the constraints imposed by Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988, but also to the principles now crystallized of constitutional jurisprudence. To this end, it is expected that decree-laws may not regulate constitutional and electoral matters, legislative delegation, authorization to ratify international treaties, approval of budgets and conclusions, nor may they repeat provisions adopted by unconverted decrees or regulate legal relations arising on the basis of them, restore the effectiveness of rules which the Constitutional Court has declared illegitimate for defects not related to the proceedings. It is also provided that the decrees must bear measures of immediate application and specific content, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. The Commission has introduced two significant amendments in the text. The first concerns the presidential postponement of the conversion laws referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution. It is expected that the President of the Republic, before promulgating the law, may ask the Chambers for a new resolution even limited to specific provisions and that, when the request concerns the law of conversion of a decree, the deadline for conversion to law will be deferred for a further thirty days. In this way, the presidential power of referral can be activated in a targeted and selective way, avoiding it being conditioned by the complexity and heterogeneity of the draft laws approved by Parliament or by the requirements for the conversion of decree-laws within the time limits laid down. The other amendment, introduced by the Commission, concerns the admissibility of the amending proposals when converting the decree-laws. It has been foreseen, in particular, that in the course of the examination of the draft law of conversion of decrees-laws, provisions outside the object or purpose of the decree, therefore not homogeneous, cannot be approved. With regard to the prerogatives of the Chambers, as a whole recalibrated in the text in relation to the new bicameral structure, one of the changes introduced by the Commission concerned the power of parliamentary inquiry, which the original proposal reserved only to the Chamber of Deputies. The Commission has decided to restore the right of inquiry to the Senate, albeit limited to matters of public interest relating to territorial autonomy, thus further strengthening the profile of the supervisory body and the guarantee outlined for the second Chamber. The requirements for guarantee and overall rebalancing of the institutional system have also inspired the changes made by the Commission regarding the election of the President of the Republic and the exercise of its role of dissolution of Parliament. With regard to the election, the quorums provided for in Article 83 for the first eight ballots have been raised, providing that only from the ninth ballot - and no longer from the third - is the absolute majority sufficient. The quorum of two thirds, which today is applicable to the first three ballots, remains in place for the first four ballots, while the majority of the three fifths of the Assembly is prepared for the ballots between the fifth and eighth. With regard to the functions of the President of the Republic, in conjunction with the new structure of the Chambers, the text provides that, in the event of his temporary impediment to fulfilling them, he is the President of the Chamber; while in the event of permanent impediment, death or resignation, the President of the Senate is to call the election of the new President and to convene and preside over the Parliament in a joint sitting. I will now outline the contents of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, on which Senator Calderoli - on whose heroism I do not have to spread given the obvious conditions under which he fulfils his role as rapporteur - will carry out his report (and, I imagine, not only on that part). The composition and functions of the new Senate are closely linked to the new division of legislative power between the State and the Regions, according to a logic that leads to the structural integration of the autonomous bodies in the circuit of Parliament's legislative decision. In fact, the reform of Title V is structured in the bill in a complementary way with that of bicameralism, being directed to make more efficient the relations between the State, the Regions and the local authorities and more functional the criteria of division of legislative and regulatory competences. The fundamental prerequisite on which the reform of Title V starts is the integration of territorial autonomy into legislative policies, made possible by the new composition of the Senate, by the reconfiguration of its role and, in particular, by the new constitutional discipline of the legislative procedure that recognizes the Senate the possibility of affecting the draft laws approved by the Chamber in a strengthened form when they adhere to the areas of greater interest for the territorial authorities. One of the cornerstones of the intervention of reorganization of the territorial levels of government provided by the new reform of Title V is the elimination of the Provinces from the number of bodies of which the Republic is composed. The abolition of the Provinces as constitutionally necessary bodies with their own fundamental functions is thus finally carried out. With reference to the allocation to the Regions of further forms and conditions of autonomy in matters of state competence (now governed by Article 116 of the Constitution), the work of the Commission has profoundly modified the initial approach of the Government which had the complete abolition of that discipline and its replacement by a functioning legislative delegation mechanism as a mere instrument of flexibility of the relationship of competence between the State and the Regions. The Commission, on the other hand, considered it essential to preserve the current forecast of important forms of differentiated regionalism, restoring the third paragraph of Article 116 with the appropriate additions. In particular, the new text of article 116, third paragraph, allows the Regions - excluding those with special autonomy - to be granted further forms and special conditions of autonomy with regard to certain matters of exclusive competence of the State, such as: the organization of justice of peace; general and common provisions on education, education, university education and strategic programming of scientific and technological research; the protection of cultural and landscape goods, general and common provisions on the environment and ecosystem, on cultural activities and on tourism and sports organisation. This allocation, as in the current text, is carried out by the law of the State, at the initiative of the Region concerned, heard the local authorities and in compliance with the principles set out in Article 119, but, according to the Commission, is limited to the regions which have conditions of balance between revenue and expenditure within the framework of their own budget. Finally, it is expected that the law that grants these additional forms of autonomy will be approved by both Chambers, on the basis of a special agreement between the State and the Region concerned. The draft law also provides for a broad revision and rationalization of the legislative powers aimed at removing the uncertainties, overlaps and excesses of conflict that have emerged following the reform of 2001 and which have had significant repercussions both on the relationship between the levels of government that make up the Republic, both from the point of view of the huge constitutional litigation in which they have resulted, and on that of the competitiveness of the country system. Therefore, in the Commission we have tried to overcome - I think the attempt has been rewarded by success - the rigidity and ambiguity of the current structure, characterised by the centrality of the subject matter of concurrent legislation, with a restart that makes the exercise of the legislative power of the State more flexible and more clear and guaranteed the areas within which the regional legislative power can be deployed. The main innovation is the elimination of shared legislative competence and the consequent reorganization of matters of exclusive competence, respectively state and regional. Finally, we believe that the supremacy clause which closes the system has also been improved in the text proposed by the Commission. According to it, state law, on a proposal from the Government which assumes responsibility for it, may intervene in particular cases on matters which are not the exclusive legislative competence of the State and the approved text places as a requirement of its exercise, alongside the protection of the legal or economic unity of the Republic, also the protection of the national interest. Allowing Senator Calderoli to illustrate in particular this part of the reform, I would add that a further innovation has been introduced by the Commission, which has in fact constitutionalized the reference to the so-called standard costs and requirements, already provided for in Law No 42 of 2009, providing that the financing of public functions by regions and local authorities must take place on the basis of cost reference indicators and requirements that promote efficiency conditions. These indicators will therefore constitute, by constitutional constraint, the parameters against which to compare and evaluate the public action of all territorial authorities. Another innovation concerns the exercise of the replacement power referred to in the second paragraph of Article 120 of the Constitution. In order to exercise this power, the obligation to obtain the opinion of the Senate was laid down, which must be rendered within fifteen days; moreover, a similar obligation to obtain the opinion of the Senate prior to the adoption of the decree for the dissolution of the Regional Council and for the removal of the President of the Junta. Finally, the reform provides that, within the framework of the State law laying down the fundamental principles for the election of regional bodies, a limit is to be established on the amounts due to the President of the Regional Council and the other members of the regional bodies, the amount of which may not exceed that of the amounts due to the mayors of the municipal capital of the Region. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of us is unaware of the importance and the modifi cation of this reform, which has undoubtedly been the most significant since the beginning of republican history as far as Parliament is concerned. Far beyond the mere reduction in the number of Members, it draws significantly, and in my opinion, the perfect system of bicameralism. Nor does any of us escape the responsibility we are taking in redefining the constitutional structure so deeply. Many times I have wondered what was the right spirit to deal with this work, which is to fulfil the duty to place reform consistently and fully in the republican constitutional tradition and, at the same time, to introduce positive innovation, useful to give impetus to the action of the parliamentary institution. We started from the need to focus on the effectiveness and promptness of the political decision and on the differentiation of the tasks of the two Chambers in order to adapt them to the needs of a much changed country: because of the membership of the Union, and the consequent importance assumed, for the Italian order, by the Community standardization in its various sources; for the role, also legislative, political and institutional assumed by the Regions; for the weight assumed by the Municipalities. We felt the need to respond to the demand for instruments of direct democracy, which rises so significantly from the country, and also to the positive demand for control and verification of the action of powers, beginning with that of the Government. We knew that we had to maintain the system of guarantees that is proper to our constitutional tradition, even in the face of the competing need to assure Italy of stable and lasting governments. Great comfort came to me personally of the rereading of the Acts of the Constituent. I have found the same troubles, sometimes the same conflicts that have crossed and crossed our discussion, identical suggestions and the awareness of many, who also voted in the affirmative, that the perfect bicameral system was, in the given conditions, a "transaction". I use the term not by chance; I found it in a speech by Mr Perassi, who, quoting Cattaneo, defines the law "a transaction" where this means not betraying the reason of one of the parties, but composing it with the others. At the end of the Commission's work and on the eve of this House's work, I answer as I know the initial question: what is the right spirit for tackling the reform? Now I think I know him because he has lived in the commitment with which all his colleagues have worked (and I stress the word 'all'). It is to experience the constitutional duty to innovate when this is indispensable to give strength and effectiveness to the institutions and, therefore, to the country; that of not considering the new what remains from a work of clipping of the existing, which therefore reduces, diminishes, impoverishes, but, on the contrary, an innovation that specifies new functions and new powers, recognizes new guarantees, succumbs to malfunctions, is attentive to always seeking a new, advanced, equilibrium of the system. In this sense, the new vision of the Senate of the Republic, the model with which we overcome the perfect bicameralism that we propose to the House today, is the result of a work of enrichment, clarification and definition of the basic text. A result that is immediately grasped by reading the Commission's text; that is the son - I mean - of the strength and responsibility of parliamentarism. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues who have worked so actively with Senator Calderoli and with me over the last few months. And I especially thank Dr. Goracci and the Senate Offices. [[Applause]] Without their work and professionalism we would simply not be here this morning. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Mixed and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to make an intervention on my arm, not in the sense of not having a written text, but in the sense of being able to use one arm, having the other blocked. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Therefore, I apologise to you, Mr President, and to my fellow Members for any errors contained in the report and for any difficulties I may find in your reading, but I cannot write, having only one hand available and having had little time to prepare it, since last Saturday they even made me go to the hospital for a cut-out, it was quite complicated, especially for an untechnological one like myself. I was also in doubt whether to make the report or to go back to the broad and comprehensive report by my colleague Mr Finocchiaro, whom I congratulate on the completeness of the report. In the end, however, I felt obliged to do so and report on everything that, like it or not, happened in the Commission, from the beginning to the term of office of the rapporteurs, partly because nobody can say that they did not help reform of the Constitution; only that beyond the hand, I put two vertebrae in it and that I was sorry for more. I felt honored to have been appointed as a majority co-rapporteur, although I belong to the opposition, because this is the fruit of the long time I have spent in my life on reforms. For this appointment, I thank President Finocchiaro and those who shared this choice with you for their trust and courage. And it took a lot of courage to appoint me as a majority rapporteur, because it was a bit like giving a loaded gun to a serial killer and hoping he wouldn't do a massacre. But with pride today I want to remember and reiterate that the first and only overall reform of the entire second part of the Constitution, voted four times by Parliament in 2005, bore my signature as Minister of Reform. The reform was rejected in 2006 by a popular referendum for two reasons: first, because of a political exploitation by the left, which falsely attributed to the reform secessionist aims [[Applause from Senator Malan]] ; secondly, due to a resounding and erroneous tactical choice of the premier and vice-premier of that time, Silvio Berlusconi and Gianfranco Fini, who wanted to have the referendum held after the 2006 general election because they feared that the referendum could have a negative impact on the political elections themselves. This choice had seen myself as an opponent, as Minister, and Professor D'Onofrio, who was then the rapporteur for the reform. Unfortunately, we had seen right both me and Professor D'Onofrio: in fact, the coalition of the center-right lost the political elections of spring 2006 and two months later, consequently, the reform was also rejected in the referendum. I am more than ever convinced that, if we had voted first for the referendum and then for the general elections, today the constitutional reform of 2005 would already be in force and we would have won the general elections of 2006. Today we are talking about a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, an end to bicameralism, a revision of Title V and many other things, but it is good to reiterate strongly that all these issues were contained in the reform of that time, even if that was much better written, both in terms of form and content. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] But let's go back to us. The reform that we are examining today, fortunately ours and the country, is a completely different text from the one initially proposed by the Government, which contained a series of original sins. Firstly, the number of Members was not affected, and 630 Members seem frankly too many. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Zin),]] both in terms of costs and in terms of the balance of the democratic system. Secondly, the Senate, as defined by the Government, had no legislative or control functions, to the point that someone rightly called it a post-work job for governors and mayors. There was general talk of a link between state and territorial autonomy, but it was clear to everyone that it would not connect anything. It was absolutely clear that a Senate with these characteristics had no sense of existence and that it would be better to suppress it altogether. Thirdly, its composition would then have been laughable, if not to mourn: for a large part it was made up of members of law with regional governors and mayors of the capital cities of Region or Autonomous Province. So we are talking about 42 members of the law, to which 21 senators of nomination of the President of the Republic were incomprehensible. I'd like to know who the genius who wrote this nonsense is and I'd like you to explain to us what 21 presidential nomination senators have to do with a Senate of Autonomouss: a real joke. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Campanella and Di Maggio.]] But even more to be laughed comes in reading the distribution of senators between the various Regions: Lombardy, Region of almost ten million inhabitants, would have had six senators, or two less than the eight attributed to Trentino-Alto Adige, which has little more than one million inhabitants. Fourthly, the method of indirect election of the Senate is incomprehensible and without real democratic participation of the citizens. Fifth, not only on the reform of Parliament, things did not work: Title V was also an aberrant thing. We were faced with a return to total centralism, to the point that the Constitution of 1947 seemed far more autonomous and federalist than the one proposed by the Renzi Government. I know I didn't say something good, but the Albertine Statute was much more autonomous than the Government's proposal, only that then there was the king, today the king is not there, or rather it shouldn't be there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bell and Di Maggio Senators]] , but democratically, things risked getting even worse. Sixthly, the third paragraph of Article 116, on so-called federalism at variable speed, had been abolished, so that the region would continue to have the same competences as the more advanced and efficient ones. Seventhly, in Article 117, the competing matter was removed and brought back in full under the exclusive authority of the State; the Regions would have remained the so-called residual matter, or nothing. After having mistakenly and falsely abolished the Provinces, in fact the reform of the Government would have abolished the Regions from the legislative point of view, transforming them into mere administrative bodies. In this respect, one of the two amendments which I did not agree with Mr Finocchiaro is that relating to large-scale agencies. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]] , because using the word "enti" it is evident that the suppression of the Provinces is a pure fiction [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Di Maggio and Zuffada]] ; in fact, in doing so, the Provinces will continue to exist, changing only the name on the facade of the palace: ==References====External links==* Official website In the eighth place, also Article 119, that is, that which speaks of revenue and expenditure of the territorial authorities, as modified by the Government's proposal, would have meant that once again the wasteful agencies would have been rewarded and the virtuous entities would have been penalized. In the ninth place, beyond the individual articles, what was completely lacking in the Government's proposal was a balance of system, weights and counterweights. The combined arrangement of reducing the number of senators, maintaining the current number of MPs, and an electoral law, such as Italicum, which would allow a party to 20% to achieve an absolute majority of seats, thanks to the role of dumb servants of allied parties that were not to reach 4.5%, would have delivered into the hands of a party but rather a relative majority, but a minority in the country, the Presidency of the Council, the Presidency of the House, the Presidency of the Republic, a large part of the members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as the power to appoint the leaders of the guarantee bodies, i.e. a real regime. In view of all this, I and President Finocchiaro, taking into account the truly general, broad and participatory debate, have prepared a unified text to be proposed as a basic text to the Commission, taking into account the Government's proposal, those of individual parliamentarians or political forces and the findings that emerged in the debate. The government, with inopportune stubbornness, demanded that its text be adopted without modification, thus mortifying the work done by the rapporteurs and commissioners. In order to protect the dignity and role of Parliament, I have, as a surprise, tabled a single agenda for my signature, based on twenty points, which committed the Commission to completely rewriting the Government's bill. That agenda, despite the government's opposition, was approved. All that followed was not a good page in parliamentary history. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : Two majority senators of the Commission were replaced by their respective political groups, because they refused to vote on my agenda, with good peace under Article 67 of the Constitution. I am sorry for them and for democracy, but fortunately, nineteen out of twenty items on that agenda have been incorporated into the text that the Commission is proposing today for the House. The only item on the agenda that has not been accepted is that relating to the direct election of the Senate, which has always seen me favorable, because in Article 1 of the Constitution it is said that sovereignty belongs to the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator D'Alì]] and not to regional councillors or mayors. However, if the overall approach of the reform found in the Commission were to stand up, I will not oppose an indirect election, provided, however, that the elective moment is really there, which is not taken for granted, since last Thursday, thanks to the agreements between the Government and Forza Italia, the indirect election had also disappeared and had been replaced by nomination mechanisms, which had nothing to do with democracy. That very day I was still hospitalized in resuscitation and I ran away from the hospital so that I could come to the Senate and stop that unclean act that was consummating on the altar of the Nazarene agreement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] No bilateral agreement, no political convenience, no personal convenience or, worse still, judicial can put democratic systems at stake, so it was worth putting your health at risk to put things right. But what has changed compared to the original text - President Finocchiaro has made a perfect illustration and so I will not go into too much detail - and what still needs to be changed? The Senate has returned to being a real branch of Parliament, even if it no longer expresses confidence; it has summed up important legislative functions, control functions, guarantee functions and represents a real link between the State and territorial autonomy. The Senate, with its 100 senators, of which 95 are elected, becomes a synthesis of the US Senate and the German Senate, even if the decision between direct and indirect election will have to be this Assembly. And - live God! - the 21 senators of presidential nomination have disappeared; but not only: even the five remaining will last in office seven years, they are all-inclusive in terms of number and in the current state - I think no one has noticed - you have also forgotten to give him the salary, so they will no longer receive anything. The quorums for the election of the President of the Republic have been raised, even if it will be necessary to achieve a greater balance between the numbers of the Chamber of Deputies and those of the Senate than those today fixed. The possibility of prior appeal to the Constitutional Court on electoral laws by the two fifths of the members of each Chamber was also provided for: this would have prevented so many mistakes of the past. This is an appeal which, as far as my personal point of view is concerned, I would extend to other cases. The issue of direct democracy was then addressed, even if I think the subject is still perfect. There has been an increase in the number of signatures for proposals for popular initiative legislation, but it has been foreseen that parliamentary regulations should provide for certain deadlines for the conclusion of the debate. The quorum has been lowered for the validity of the repealing referendums of popular initiative, but increasing to 800,000 the number of signatures of the signatories of the referendum proposal, and also providing, at an altitude of 400,000 signatures, the pronunciation of eligibility by the Constitutional Court on the referendum question. It is true that six months have been spent collecting signatures instead of the current three, but I still believe that 800,000 signatures are really excessive and that the number should be reconsidered during the examination of the proposal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] But let us now turn to Title V of Part II of the Constitution. With the re-introduction of the third paragraph of Article 116, the so-called federalism at variable speed has returned to life: that is, what allows the regions, which have already proved to be able to govern well and virtuously, to acquire additional legislative functions on condition, however - as already mentioned - that they are in balance of budget. Article 117, that is, what defines the legislative powers of State and Regions, has been completely rewritten, defining once and for all what are the exclusive competences of the State and those that are of the Regions, establishing once and for all the famous and hoped for by all who do what they do. One thing I still do not like in Article 117: the so-called state supremacy clause that, as planned, allows the State to cancel the legislative power of the Regions in their competences even in regions where there is no need for it. The clause, as set out in the text today, seems to me to recall the famous saying that it was read behind the counter of certain commercial activities: "Because of someone no more credit is given to anyone." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It would be paradoxical, for example, that if one or two regions were not able to guarantee the essential levels of health or social assistance, they would want to intervene on all the regions and not on those two: in the face of federalism! This will have to be settled. Excellent work has been done on Article 119, which is the article on the revenue and expenditure of territorial authorities: for the first time, the concept of cost-reference indicators and requirements that guarantee the best efficiency practices, i.e. the so-called standard costs, has been included in the Constitution. Never again will any government - as did that of the never regret Monti - be able to cancel or suspend the application of fiscal federalism. On this subject I feel like giving advice to my friend Renzi: despite the government continues to deny economic manoeuvres, everyone, but everyone, even the major economic experts, know that, in the face of current public accounts, a maneuver from 20 to 27 billion will be needed. You will tell me that it is not true and the good Renzi, who is certainly very smart, the maneuver will not do it, but however he will have to make the law of stability and the knots then will come to the comb: the missed cuts of the Letta Government, which are estimated at 4-5 billion; the spending reviews of Bondi and Cottarelli, that have been lost in the street; the emerging expenses that, every year, they have to face, and that they have to face all, that are estimated at 5-6 billion; the partial coverage of the 80 euros for 2014; the total coverage of the 80 euros in 2015, already do, making the accounts of the servant, well more than 20 billion. To avoid this manoeuvre, Renzi will have to become the most passionate supporter of standard costs and fiscal federalism, because only this tool will allow him to recover those tens of billions not going to pick them up from the pockets of citizens or businesses, but through a targeted cut of waste and inefficiencies of the country system. However, I do not want to get lost in details that can best be deepened during the examination of the articles and their amendments, now I want to make some reflections on what still needs to be done in relation to my personal opinion. The first is that, in order to re-establish a true and balanced system of weights and counterweights, the number of Members must be re-examined; it must not be seen by anyone as an action against the other branch of Parliament but, objectively, 630 Members are really too many, not only in terms of costs, but above all in terms of balances: a Parliament in common sitting that should include a Senate represented by 100 members against the 630 Members of the House would become a Bulgarian Parliament. One proposal that I would reasonably like to make is to reduce the number of Members to at least 500, not only because that was the number envisaged in my 2005 reform, but because this number represents the relationship between citizens and elected people that applies in France and in Western democracies to us most alike. The second is that, if this House wants to open the debate on Rule 68, that is, on parliamentary immunity, this will have to concern both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic; I would also be in favour of the total abolition of immunity, provided that this is done for both branches of Parliament; alternatively, I continue to be convinced that the body that has to deal with it must be a third party and the maximum expression of guarantees, i.e. the Constitutional Court. The third is that in the field of legislative procedure, that is, the competences of the Senate, it seems frankly absurd and curious that the Senate cannot deal with the great ethical issues that concern science and morals; just as unruly it seems to me that the Senate cannot decide on the coordination of public finance: so, if this House decides to foresee it, I am also willing to discuss the competences of the Senate on Article 81, i.e. on the budgets. Let us try with a little good will to find a healthy and just balance. The fourth is that on Article 117 I believe that some filing is still necessary, but without any disruption, because if someone had the temptation to bring everything back to the state, he already knows that the reform would stop and everything would go to 48 cards. I obviously do not want to threaten anyone but I do not want to be fooled by anyone either: if the pacts are respected the reform takes flight, otherwise the reform crashes. The fifth reflection is that we deliberately, and in agreement with the co-rapporteur, did not want to touch on Article 138 in the Commission, namely the referendums on constitutional matters, precisely in order to be able to discuss them in this House, but we are both convinced that the referendums on constitutional reforms should be able to take place regardless of the majority with which Parliament approved the reform and if this House agrees we will proceed to this. The sixth is that on the direct or indirect election of the Senate I have already expressed myself and the decision will be up to this House, even if, in the electoral law under regime, we must remember the protection of linguistic minorities, which today is absent in the text to our examination. However, I feel that I have great doubts about the transitional rule for the first election of the Senate of the Republic. As it is today configured, it foreshadows a serious injury to Article 51 of the Constitution, which reads: "All citizens of one or the other sex shall have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law." I will try to explain better: a constitutional law cannot attribute ex post, i.e. ex post, the right of active and passive electorate to regional councillors who had been voted by voters to be the pure and simple regional adviser and not the senator or the great senator electorate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Casaletto.]] Therefore, a constitutional law cannot prevent an outgoing citizen or senator from running for office in the Senate, since they did not know that in order to do so they would first have to be elected as regional councillor, which is, among other things, incompatible with a senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buemi]] I know this is a complicated thing to understand, but let us not write with the transitional rule a reform of the second part of the Constitution that does not respect the first part of the Constitution itself, because, paradoxically, we would be writing an unconstitutional reform. The amendment that deals with this matter is one of the two that I did not sign, not sharing it with my colleague, Mr Finocchiaro, but as rapporteur I intend to table an amendment in this regard. Frankly, in the transitory part - but I fear that this may happen under the regime - I once again review the famous blocked lists. For eight years I have been massacred for writing a law with blocked lists; now, once with Italicum, once with the electoral law for the Senate, the blocked lists are raised. So don't say it's my fault for the blocked lists anymore. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-ILC Groups]] Finally, what is missing from this reform and I regret it? Reform of the form of government and justice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] But let's take it one step at a time. I do not want to introduce new arguments that would risk slowing down or stopping this reform. In Bergamo it is said: "Pietost de nient, l'è mei il pietost"; but in addition to flying high and talking about great reforms, we immediately return with our feet on the ground and to fly lower. We quickly approve this reform and try to do it well, but then we come back to thinking about how to solve the real problems, those related to the crisis, how to prevent companies from closing, how to save jobs and create new ones, how to give hope to our young people, how to get families to the end of the month and not let each of us live the nightmare of unsustainable taxes. These are the biggest and most challenging reforms that we will have to face, even if, by approving the reform we are examining, we are laying the foundation for all these problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u12	The minority rapporteur, Senator De Petris, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u13	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u14	Mr President, today's draft constitutional reform reached the debate in this House does not find the consensus of the Senators of the Mixed Left Group, Ecology and Freedom and of a very large number of other Senators, who have tried in the Commission's work to make changes and try to arrive at a project that has its own solidity. The rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, said that she had sought comfort in the work of the Constituent and many of us have tried to reread many important steps of that work in recent days. Of course, for me and for many of us who have worked in the Commission, one issue has always been very clear: the democratic system, as the constituent Fathers gave it to us, is characterized by weights and balances, combinations of representation, pluralism and governance, which must have their internal coherence, in order to prevent the democratic system from coming out completely unbalanced. For this reason, in dealing with the key issue, that is to say the overcoming of bicameralism, many of us have put to the attention of the Commission's work a project, on the contrary, several projects that have been confronted and cross-referenced, which, in my opinion, certainly have a system coherence, precisely from the point of view of balances, absolutely solid. As far as we are concerned, in giving a very negative opinion on this project, which is now coming to the attention of the House, in the Commission, and we will do so again at this beginning of the debate in this House, we wanted to put forward a number of issues which we believe would have been consistent from the point of view of the democratic system. Mr President, fellow senators, there has been a long debate in the Constitution on monocameralism, but it is clear to everyone that that monocameralism, carried out by some and later debated in the country, had in itself the very sense of balance. Although it only envisaged a Chamber, it was actually representative, elected by proportional electoral law and thus capable of guaranteeing the balance of the system itself, of the relationship between Parliament and the Government. It is therefore clear that in approaching the theme of overcoming equal bicameralism it was and is necessary to have in mind a framework for balancing the system. Instead, the product of the government's initiative - I mean frankly - is already a vulnus of constitutional review processes. We believe that the government's initiative and pressure for the approval of the basic text in the Commission represent a real imposition and therefore a vulnus in the process of constitutional revision, which had been conceived and must, in fact, be Parliament's exclusive heritage. The result of the process of overcoming the perfect bicameralism through the reform of the Senate, considered by the speakers the key proposal, if it were approved by the Senate as it is, would be very heavy from the democratic point of view. From this point of view, I immediately come to the heart of the matter and therefore to the imbalances produced by the text approved by the Commission. The issue of bicameralism could be dealt with through the node of the diversification of functions between the two chambers and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Our proposal was very clear - there were a lot of them in this direction - and it was intended to reduce the number of Members to 450 (other proposals included 315 Members) and senators to 150 or even 100, as was the case in the Commission's final proposal. In this way a system was created in which the Senate, directly elected, no longer competed for the relationship of trust with the Government but were attributed functions of high qualification, called by us as guarantee and control, all the more important because, in our vision, the Upper House was detached from the relationship of trust of the citizens. It is clear to everyone that the presupposition of such a bicameralism cannot fail to see always and only the respect (as far as we are concerned, but violated by the proposal that is now under discussion in this House) of Article 1 of the Constitution. Dear Mr President, unfortunately we did not swear on the Constitution when we became senators and Members. But let us remember that Article 1 of the Constitution says that sovereignty is of the people and that the legislative function, exercised by Parliament, is based on the fact that the elected are directly elected by the people. We, on the other hand, are with a Senate that remains a series of legislative functions, but that will no longer have direct legitimacy from the citizens. A Senate composed of 95 elected at regional councils, between regional councillors and mayors (with a second-level election which, as we will then see in the same transitional rule, will in fact no longer be an election but a proper appointment) and a Chamber of Deputies of 630 Members. As the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, has also said, it is clear that there is already a serious problem of balance here. Article 1 is infringed. However, the Senate will contribute to the constitutional revision laws and, even, to the constitutional revision process, those who have not been directly elected by the citizens will participate. Our Constitutional Charter, even the first part of the Constitution, can be revised without those participating in the constitutional revision process having an express legitimacy on the part of the citizens themselves. The imbalance which, when the constitutional revision is carried out, we must always calculate and keep in mind (because we know that democracy is made up of weights and counterweights), stems from the fact that we will have a number of 100 senators compared to 630 Members. This fact will have, on the other tasks that are attributed to this type of Senate, a very obvious imbalance effect. In the election of the President of the Republic the Senate will obviously have a rather small role. Because, Mr President, this draft reform of the Senate and overcoming the perfect bicameralism, we must frame it and read it in the other ongoing reform process, which is that of the electoral law. All this process takes place while a law (the so-called Italicum) has been passed in the House that has a strong majority distortion and that will ensure, for the type of thresholds and barriers, that, for the access to the majority prize, a party, even with only 25%, could have an absolute majority of seats. Thus, in fact, with this combined arrangement of a Senate so reduced and no longer elected by citizens and the strongly majority distortion of Italicum, a single party will be able to elect the President of the Republic alone, the judges of the Constitutional Court and the CSM. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] It will be able, in fact, to determine heavily and totally the election of the guarantee bodies. Everyone sees the fundamental issue that we Senators must bear in mind - and you also know, Mr President, that you are so attentive to these aspects - when we are preparing for such a profound constitutional review process, namely the balance of the democratic system, which, only by this example, falls, because it is a completely unbalanced system. I have learned, modestly, that the history of constitutionalism is both ancient and modern, it is the exercise of the legal technicality of limiting the power of the sovereign, not of his freedom, as we are trying to do in fact with this reform. We are not here, Mr President, for a constitutional revision which contradicts the two cornerstones of democratic constitutionalism, the limitation of power and the legitimacy of power and democracy that comes from the people. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] : these two aspects, as I said, are being called into question with the reform under consideration. The rewriting of Article 55 of the Constitution represents another vulnus, because the Senate, thus composed, will no longer represent the nation, in its unity and that of its general interests, but only and only the whole or recomposition of territorial interests. The composition of 95 members, 74 elected between regional councillors and mayors, five presidential nominations, by its nature and due to the situation in our country will pose a question of homogeneity. In fact, in every regional council there is a different electoral law: we have electoral laws with blocked lists, others where there is preference and others where the President has another list of nominations on his list. The source of legitimacy, therefore, is no longer unique and direct, i.e. it no longer belongs to the people through direct election, therefore this also raises a question of homogeneity, in addition to the violation of the general rules on the passive electorate, the possibility and the right of access of all citizens to public office. In fact, perhaps we are asking questions that do not concern or fall outside the intention or philosophy of those who strongly wanted this kind of approach to Senate reform, because what we want to achieve is a Senate of appointed people, who will be chosen within each regional council. In fact, if the majority party in each regional council chooses the complacent minority at that time we will have the same final result also in the composition of the Senate. I have heard of pluralism, but seeing the mechanism and the transitional rule, I do not understand how it can be implemented with this kind of Senate composition and with this method of election. We will therefore have an uneven legitimacy, as I said, and the non-stability of the organism and, to prove it, I use the following example, relating to what we are facing at the moment: the constitutional revision begins with the new Senate, which participates in the laws of constitutional revision, then arrives at the House and, when it returns, it can be changed in its composition. In fact, one or more regional councils may have been dissolved for many reasons or have reached a natural maturity and therefore be awaiting elections and consequently will have changed the regional councilors acting as senators and we will then have a composition of the Senate in fact variable. As you can see, we also come to the subject of a number of issues which, if we really wanted to implement a serious reform for the modernisation of the system and its efficiency, would have had to lead to tackling it in a different way, which we did not want to undertake and none of us ever had an answer on why. I am referring to the reduction of Members of Parliament and two Houses with very different functions: a Senate of Warranty and Control and a House that gives confidence and carries out a wider legislative function. Instead, stubbornly, you choose the way of the nominations. Thus, if the type of path undertaken on Italicum continues, for which the lists will be a little shorter but will always be blocked lists, we will have handed over the entire system of representation - I repeat - into the hands of very few, who will choose the elected and the appointed, and, with the majority prize, we will de facto hand in the hands of the majority party also the election of the President of the Republic. An amendment by Senator Gotor was adopted in the Commission, which would have liked to mitigate this aspect in some way, so that the President of the Republic elected himself by an absolute majority of votes from the eighth vote onwards. You understand very well, Mr President, that this amendment is a little warm cloth and that the issue is not directly addressed, and it cannot be addressed because there is this great disproportion between the number of Members and that of the senators and this vulnus, resulting from the fact that we, here in the Senate, operate this constitutional revision and are already booked, immediately afterwards, to conclude the process of electoral reform such as Italicum, on which I believe that the Consulta will still have much to say since the issues raised by the Constitutional Court, in my opinion and in the opinion of many constitutionalists, have not been resolved at all. Mr President, I think we still have an opportunity in this House to do a good job, if every senator will take care of his role in the constitutional revision by heavily correcting these distortions, by changing the composition of the Senate and the system of election, by giving the word back to the citizens, by reaffirming a principle that we cannot violate: we cannot reform Part II of the Constitution if the founding principles of Part I are affected and this is being done. The second issue that we should have been wisely addressing is that we have a crisis of representation and of the relationship between citizens and institutions that is profound, very profound. There is a total detachment and we have seen it from the percentages of the citizens who go to vote. Well, I think it should be an imperative for all of us to find ways to strengthen representation and rebuild a relationship between citizens and institutions. It is a matter of politics and parties and we should have taken care of this aspect, but what is done? We intervene on institutions of popular initiative and direct participation, always with the excuse of innovation that has now become a constitutional value of Part I (innovation end in itself) we raise from 50,000 to 250,000 the number of signatures that serve for the bill of popular initiative, without having any kind of guarantee, if not generic, in the times and ways of discussion and approval. It was possible to introduce, on the basis of the debate on the laws of popular initiative, the proposed referendum; it could and can be ensured that, by means of an automatic mechanism, if a law of popular initiative does not reach the work of the Commission and of the House, as the history of these fifty years shows, then after a certain time we arrive at the proposed referendum. On the other hand, I believe that this issue has been dealt with superficially and in fact limiting, once again, the possibility of direct participation of citizens. I now come to the question of the repealing referendum. Certainly there has been an improvement because the quorum established is no longer on the whole audience of those entitled, but on the majority - it will therefore be a variable quorum - in relation to the number of voters in the last parliamentary elections. But in fact, it brings up to 800,000 signatures the necessary number, which actually means a million signatures. This corresponds to the number of votes obtained by Europeans by some political force that has overcome the barrier with little more than one million votes, which for a referendum should mobilize its entire electorate. It also introduces the element of the early eligibility judgment half-collecting signatures (i.e. 400,000) to arrive at the eligibility judgment. We believe that this number is too high and this is once again a strong limitation of citizens' right to direct participation. President, I close on Title V of Part II of the Constitution. Title V and reforms are the example of what the debate on reforms in our country has been and what it means to give life to hasty and thoughtless reforms. The spirit of Article 138 in the Constitution is instead that of weighting, calmness and reflection, exactly the opposite of what is happening now. President, we have already had experiences of hasty constitutional reforms that have caused problems and failures in the country. One of these concerned Title V. Today we are taking action again, but we are causing other problems with a process of centralization on certain subjects which we believe must still be the subject of discussion and agreement with the territories and regions. I am referring to major infrastructure and energy networks. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] It is not by chance that we want to refocus these choices and remove them completely from the evaluation of territorial communities. We believe that action could be taken by avoiding and returning to a series of failures. For example, I find it incredible that when the essential levels of civil and social rights are incorporated into the Constitution, we forget - this is another violation of Article 3 of the Constitution - the principle of substantial equality. In fact, no one thinks that it is necessary to talk about equal levels of performance, according to the principle of equality of civil and social rights throughout the country. Mr President, I hope in this House and would like to remind all the senators that we must work freely, without party or group orders, but according to our conscience. Faced with the fact, as has been said here, that this is propaganda as a major constitutional revision project, I think that this is certainly a profound revision project, but it affects some basic elements of the democratic system, which together with the electoral law will in fact lead to the annulment of pluralism within Parliament and will result in failures which we risk repenting very soon. I therefore make one final appeal, recalling what I said earlier about the history of constitutionalism: we are not here to guarantee the sovereign's freedom. Let us also put the so-called guillotine in the Constitution, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is not enough that all parliamentary activity is subject only and only to decree-laws, because this happens, but instead of intervening to limit them strongly, another instrument is inserted in the Constitution for the Government that is that of the preferential lane, introducing the so-called guillotine in the Constitution. We say that we are not here to make a constitutional revision to guarantee the sovereign's freedom. We, I always say this to the Minister, are a little old, in this we are a little conservative, that is, passionate about popular sovereignty, and we think that in the democratic system to proceed to the revision of the Constitution means first of all to guarantee a system of limitation of the sovereign's power and, first of all, the pluralism of representation, the possibility - certainly - of governability, but with respect for the relationship between Parliament, democratic pluralism and government, and to widen the spaces of direct participation of citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed-ILC Groups]] Mr President, I ask for permission to submit the written report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u15	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Morra to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u16	Colleagues, what we are going to decide in the near future is of importance that I certainly do not have to stress, but for this very reason I feel obliged to remind everyone of some of the thoughts that have been made in the Commission too. I am referring here to the fact that what we use as an image of justice, that is to say the balance, has its own sense of unity, as far as it is in fact consti of two plates which must visually represent the concept of equality, only and only if it is possible to maintain a perfect balance between the two sides. This concept of justice is the one that represents the Constitution in two parts: the first, the one that contemplates the principles, and the second, the one that presents the organizational norms. If we, even imperceptibly and intentionally, go to modify this relationship of forces and this unstable balance, we produce a damage that can be irreversible, so I really invite everyone to pay the utmost attention to these reflections. You of the majority want to touch this balance substantially, but I must remind everyone, including us in the Movement, that this Parliament has little power to intervene, at least morally and then politically. I understand that perhaps the moral level interests few, but I have always been led to believe that morals fund politics, unlike what perhaps others here believe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What I rebuke for the umpteenth time is the lack of morality. An electoral law that the Constitutional Court has defined constitutionally illegitimate, with sentence n. 1 of 2014, should lead us to more caution, because at the most we can carry out maintenance activities, but not revise in depth. This same law is also, in fact, preserved in many electoral laws that still regulate the election of regional councillors. What it represents for the Court vulnus of the Constitution - that is, the enormous majority prize granted to those who win even if with a relatively limited majority and then the impossibility for the citizen to choose why preference in some Regions is not guaranteed and there are blocked lists - is then repeated through the codification of regional electoral laws that these defects have and that will allow not to elect, but to appoint again the future senators of the Senate of territorial institutions. Allow me to mention this, because an indirect election of a second degree with this party regime is simply a nomination. Let us also touch on a third of the articles in our Constitution; let us not say that it is a light, impalpable intervention, of efficiency and of research as effective as possible. Do not say that, Minister, because if we really want to make the legislative process more efficient, we will all know what to do. We all know that. I take your warning, President Grasso: we must allow the Senate to work a little more. In fact, we normally work from Tuesday at lunch to Thursday at lunch; if we worked from Monday to Friday, this would facilitate the productivity of the House that comes to be the subject of profound revision by this provision. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must also regulate the amendment phase. We all know that very often in this House we are confronted with amendments that we do not know the nature of, because in the Commission they have not actually been studied properly because they have been immediately withdrawn and set aside for the House in order to avoid a serious and substantial investigation of them. Above all, we must call on the Commission not to flood Parliament with decree-laws, but this call falls into the void because the government now decrees that it is a pleasure - as they say with anacolute - for several decades. Therefore, with a Tacit style, it can be said that here you want to kill the perfect bicameralism, although it seems to me that you kill a dead man because the perfect bicameralism is precisely of a Parliament that retains the legislative faculty but the governments, for at least a couple of decades, have taken this legislative faculty away from the parliamentarians. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]] If we do not have the qualified majorities that our Constitution imposes - fortunately - we will all have to go to the referendum to further validate this bill. In this referendum - another problem - there is a subject that is completely encompassed and completely heterogeneous. For example, the abolition of the CNEL, although desirable and desired by many because this body, although constitutionally legitimate, has never been made to work, because the Government has rarely asked the CNEL for opinions, is proposed within a package. Tell me clearly then: you are packing a package to voters and citizens. It's like you're offering a decent dessert at the end of a disgusting lunch. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Frankly, if a referendum is to be held, it must be done by separate parties so that citizens can choose what needs to be preserved and what needs to be changed. In substance, the bill No. 1429 offends Cartesian voters also and especially with the establishment of a new Senate. The new composition of the Senate of the Republic is characterized in fact by the indirect and mixed election - this is a euphemism, reminds me of the Macedonian - of its members, freeing them from the primary democratic source, as Senator De Petris previously recalled, from which derives the sovereignty in our system: the election by universal and direct suffrage, which we have conquered with so much effort and that perhaps it will be necessary to remove because in the future we will have to recover productivity (as I hear from colleagues of the PD), making Italian society increasingly similar to a market and not to a democracy. But democracy is this: faculty of listening and dialogue; even if someone, who seems to be a novel Pericles, sometimes forgets it. Now these new senators will no longer be representatives of the nation, but representatives of the territorial institutions. I am here because I am a representative of the nation and of the citizens and, like me, all of you; and I hope that all of us can feel proudly and proudly that we are representatives of the citizens, because it is the citizens who base the institutions and not the other way round. Let's remember that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But if it is not the people, who will choose these new senators? They will be the champions of virtue and morality that we appreciated for their tenacious insistence to provide work to prosecutors throughout Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to show how hopeless the partycracy is. Regional councillors will appoint new senators. I imagine that, after the scandals that have led to so many regional councils, the citizens will be really excited about this idea. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and also the fact that these nominations will also have the same immunity as Members of Parliament. So, nausea is added to nausea; at worst there is never an end! Thanks to an amendment by the rapporteurs, approved in the Commission before the decision was taken on the nature of the election of the members of the new Chamber, the new senators were also enlarged to include the constitutional shields provided for in Article 68. So these members of the future Senate will enjoy the identical immune shield of the senators also in their duties as regional councilor or mayor, being predictably almost impossible for a magistrate to understand if a concussor is violating the law as a senator or mere regional counselor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In the face of the principle of equality: mayors and regional advisers coming to Rome will have immunity, while all the other mayors and regional advisers - poor - will not. The latter, rightly, will feel discriminated against, and they may also feel the need to demand for themselves the implementation of the principle of equality. What explanation will you give for this? All I can think of is the Marquis of the Cricket. Simply: 'Cause I know, and you're not a... beep! In this sad reality that we live today, as the Government has imposed its Diktats on the Commission, this joke by Alberto Sordi makes us outrage. In the film, called by the great Alberto, that joke made us laugh, albeit bitterly. Today, on the other hand, the joke that you make and that makes the most laugh, even and above all you, especially those who want this immunity, is another: The law is the same for all. A joke, not a truth, not a principle for which to engage. One joke: to this you have reduced the Italian Republic. Mr President, I would ask that the text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He asked Senator Campanella to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u17	Mr President, we believe that the election of second instance is a violation of Article 1 of the Constitution, because the people, who have sovereignty, are deprived of the right to exercise it in one of the fundamental elements, namely the election of their representatives. This fact also determines in fact the dequalification of a branch of Parliament, because its legitimacy no longer comes from the direct election of citizens. The transformation of the Senate from elective to non-elective, since this new Senate would maintain forms, albeit weakened, of legislative power, but also the election of important constitutional bodies and participation in the processes of revision of the Constitution, deprives the elector of the power of direct legitimacy of the legislative process. The progressive detachment of citizens from the institutions in this way is substantially increased and intensified, where it would have been more appropriate to strengthen the institutions of direct democracy, also in view of the great demand for participation that comes from the people. Instead, institutions of direct democracy are mortified. The presentation of the laws of popular initiative can be made, if this bill passes, no longer by 50,000 but by 250,000 signatories. Moreover, the initiative to revise the Constitution, in a parliamentary Republic, is exclusively the responsibility of the Chambers and does not concern the political direction of the majority. The Government's bill No. 1429, on the other hand, creates the risk - I would say more than a risk - of procedural distortions resulting from the government's initiative, such as in the case of recourse to the emergency procedure or as well as the imposition of the question of trust on its approval, which would be a real aberration. On the other hand, in this respect it is illuminating a sentence made with reference to the constitutional revision procedure by the President of the Council of Ministers, when he said that it is now important to arm the majority. Moreover, the effect of the proposed reform of bicameralism, combined with the amendment of the electoral law (with the Chamber of Deputies with a hyper-majority vocation) and the strengthening of the prerogatives of the Government in Parliament, is likely to lead not only to distorting effects of the balanced relationship between the powers of the State, but also to an intolerable narrowing of political representation through a system of barrier thresholds that penalises the smaller parties excessively and which, as a result, leads to a very large social and political exclusion, which will make it more difficult to resolve social conflicts, which, especially in recent years, are dramatically becoming unsettling. Furthermore, in the text we are examining, there is a risk of a forced simplification of the political framework, which is also contrary to the principle of popular sovereignty, which is the basis of the constitutional order and which postulates the maximum valorization of political, institutional and social pluralism. Basically, social conflicts are being extra-parliamentaryized. The allocation of a preferential lane to the draft laws indicated by the Government as priorities is part of an overall framework clearly oriented to favour governance at the expense of representation. Now, that governance is one of the needs of this country is beyond doubt. The problem is how much representation and balance of powers can be sacrificed to this need. Among other things, detailed deadlines and procedures for the examination of government measures are specified in the Constitution, which could instead have been governed by parliamentary regulations, as has been established - for example - for proposals for popular initiative laws. The problem is that perhaps you consider the government's bill more important than those deriving from the citizens' initiative. It would be at least appropriate to limit the list of matters removed from the priority procedure in order to introduce elements of guarantee in favour of all political formations, both majority and minority, against possible authoritarian torsions, at this time not present, but still possible, which may not be entirely averted, unfortunately considered our history. The Government, with this constitutional bill, also proposes to amend the provisions contained in Titles I, II, III, V and VI of Part II of the Constitution and in the Final Provisions. It is a constitutional law with a dissimilar content that, if it were to come to the confirmation referendum - as we hope - it would violate popular sovereignty and freedom of vote, since it would force voters to vote on the whole text only one vote, even though the changes to the Constitution are varied and disparate. And this is also contrary to the inspiration of the norm, approved in the Commission, in which it is stated that in the course of the examination of the draft law of conversion into law of the decree-laws, provisions outside the object or purpose of the decree-law cannot be approved. The homogeneity pursued in the discussion of decree-laws and their conversion is not taken into account when citizens have to assess what is a real upheaval of the institutional order. I am beginning to conclude, highlighting an important fact. In doctrine there is unanimity on the following point: the power must be divided between several subjects and organs in such a way that none of them is in a position to overpower others. The plurality of the constitutional bodies means that they are mutually independent and are in a position of balance so as to effectively guarantee the role assigned to each of them. Democracy cannot end up in a mere structure of government, but more generally it concerns the correlation between society and the state. One of the corollaries of democracy is the need, in order to counter an excessive concentration of power, to improve the instruments of the people's participation in political decisions, to extend the judicial remedies for the protection of fundamental rights and to implement a pluralistic structure that favours a wide decentralisation of functions. In their opinion, the Constituents have been able to build a system based on weights and counterweights able to function perfectly, capable of resisting the test of time and profoundly different contexts. The text before us, in conjunction with the text of the electoral reform already approved by the House, determines, as a consequence of the different composition of the two chambers, both the considerable diversity of powers, and the enormous majority prize provided for by the Chamber of Deputies, the only one entitled to vote for the Government, a sort of de facto mono-cameralism dominated by a coalition of parties not legitimized by the majority of voters, among other things, without counterpowers and with an exponential increase of new powers determined by the combined provision previously stated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). I'm gonna finish. I propose not to proceed with the examination of this act because, for everything I have described before, it is going to upset not only the institutional order, but also the spirit underlying our Constitution, which, in the attribution of sovereignty to the people and in the balancing of powers, finds the elements that denote it and do what our State has managed to hold up in these decades since the post-war period. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u18	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u21	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Mixed SEL Group will vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. Of course, in the general debate, I will have time to speak in more detail on the reasons why I feel that this constitutional reform presented by the Government is wrong and counterproductive. In any event, the reasons why we wish to vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling are very serious questions of method and substance. As a method, so to speak, also because we consider it very significant that this process of constitutional revision, which should normally compete in the Chambers, comes from a government initiative. This, in our opinion, represents a real processical twist; it is indeed as if history had taught us little. Over the course of time and of many passages of democracy in this country, some constitutional reforms presented in the eyes of the country with a unanimous choir that made it difficult, for those who opposed it, to propose arguments of dissent and criticism regarding what the unique thought was supporting, we have seen how often, over the years, have demonstrated many strong and clear criticalities. I am thinking, for example, of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which was also launched at the time with great haste and also in that case with a great element of propaganda behind it. I am also thinking of what, more recently, meant the reform of Article 81 of the Republican Constitution, which Parliament, in a virtually unanimous way, approved, without even listening to the wise suggestion that came from outside Parliament, not to do so by a two-thirds majority, thus allowing a constitutional referendum to be held on that subject. Well, Parliament did not want to listen to the kind of reminder that came from significant circles of civil society; it went on all the way, approved the law on balance in the Constitution, amending Article 81 and the results of that bad choice today are before everyone's eyes. We would not want then that, exactly as happened for Title V and Article 81, once again the haste was bad counselor. The haste, as has also been said in the minority report, is the opposite of the spirit of Article 138, also because I think I can say that if there is a real reflection to be put on the ground in a reasoning like this, it is exactly about the state of democracy of our country. I would like to ask myself all about this, including my colleagues in the majority, including those who will be voting in favour of this reform, although, of course, I hope that in the course of these months, already from this debate in the Senate, amendments can be made. It is clear that there is a need for a process of change and that there is a need for a process of profound self-form of politics and institutions. The point, however, is to wonder, given the state of difficulty in democracy in our country, whether what is presented today is actually an antidote to the crisis, a way out of the crisis of democracy and representation, or whether, as we fear, there is a profound risk of worsening even more the spaces of democratic agibility and positive tension that can be in our country. In this regard - I would like to say this very clearly and I also heard it in the report by Senator Finocchiaro - the issue of popular sovereignty cannot be just one of the points we are dealing with today, it cannot be one of the issues we are dealing with: it is the heart of the political question, it is the centre of the problem. Then, even if, as in this case, it happens to express an element of agreement respect, for example, to the need to overcome the bicameralism paritarian in our country, we pose a very serious problem with regard to an aspect that is greatly underestimated: the arranged combination of a Senate elected with a second-level mechanism, moreover by regional councils that will probably proceed to the election, even in that case, with the mechanism of nominations, and Italicum (i.e. an electoral law that provides blocked lists, abnormal barriers, majority prizes, in short, a mechanism unpublished in the history of the country) risks to determine a huge political problem for Italy, which is experiencing a deep crisis of democratic representation and, never as before, a separation and detachment between rulers and governed, and which, instead, should have started a process inverse to what is being undertaken. Today it is a question of recovering that vulnus, so that politics and institutions appear far from the interests of the citizens; it is a question of intervening precisely on those aspects, working to widen the spaces of democracy. This is the great topic of discussion and not from today, but from twenty years to this side; this is the point on which even part of Italian constitutionalism over these years has been confronted and which has made us say for a long time that the reforms made in recent years, which have always looked at the theme of governability rather than the theme of representation, have left a nerve uncovered compared to a complex and delicate terrain such as this. This is the time of the crisis of the forms of politics as we have known them; it is the time of the crisis of the mass parties, it is the time of the crisis of representation, it is the time when the elements of public distrust towards the political class have increased enormously. How, then, does one react to this crisis? How do you get out of this mechanism? I think that the only answer to getting out of this crisis is to work to make spaces of democracy cross-border and participatory, much more than before. That is why, even if I understand the ratio, I do not in any way share the fact, for example, that the number of signatures needed to submit a repealing referendum or a legislative proposal is rising, even if I understand that there will be an innovation in the parliamentary regulations; but until we see that innovation, we think that the political problem remains very serious. Today, the weights and counterweights that the constituent Fathers had imagined as a limit to the power of the Executive are also called into question. And as for this reason we believe it is right to vote on the preliminary questions, we think it is very wrong to imagine that in the new order that will rule our country the decrees indicated by the government must have a priority preferential lane. This arrangement is the product of a misconception. But is it possible that the story of all these years has taught nothing? Is it possible that he did not teach that all too often the elements of representation have been limited and all too often an idea, that of governability, has been brought forward, but it has ultimately proved to be a slogan and propaganda? Well, for all these reasons, we think that this reform does not help to develop what our country would need. I shall have the opportunity to say so even in the general debate later when I try to ask this House to discuss this fundamental issue: we need today to change our democracy in the foundations; we need to overcome, to break that link which over all these years has seen representative democracy consume more and more, until the paradoxical result that Italy sees today and, of course, the other European countries mark an element of dissent so strong with regard to politics and its traditional forms. That is why it would have served nothing else: it would have served to insist on the mechanisms of participatory democracy, which present the idea that democracy can be crossed by social actors. Personally an Italian democracy as we are building it today, which makes it more difficult for social actors to cross it and be agents of change frankly scares me and worries me. For these reasons we shall vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u24	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, many senators who have spoken so far in this long one-month debate have pointed out that it represents a serious rift from the institutional unity of our country; unity denied by the refusal of the majority and the government to seek, at least with reasonableness if not with conviction, a version of the amendment of as many as 55 articles of our Constitution that was shared by the whole Parliament and not wanted by the majority alone. (...) There are very few senators of the majority who in private do not understand, or even openly confess, their deep discomfort to be called to vote, for political discipline, a reform that they do not share. (...) Now, beyond the natural differences between the political groups, it would have been necessary for the majority to seek, first of all in the work of revising the Constitution, the unity of Parliament on certain shared values and on the fundamental rules of public life. I believe that nothing more harms the future of the country than the breaking of the principles on which our democratic coexistence rests. There is much uncertainty, perhaps even fear in Italian society. Citizens need to recover with politics a stronger relationship, consisting of content and not just image, ideals and not just marketing, seriousness and stability and not uncertainty and precariousness. And how do these questions correspond to government and majority? With electoral reform, for example, it removes the right of citizens to have direct parliamentary representation from most of the territory. (...) But let us return to the reform of the Constitution. Unfortunately, for lack of time I cannot extend myself to the very serious tearing-off of a majority that wanted to impose an inconsistent - I emphasize this term - interpretation of Article 138 of the Constitution, visibly aimed at regulating the revision of individual parts of the constitutional dictation, certainly not to reform the entire Charter, distorting its fundamental principles with the contextual modification of 40% of its articles, which concern a large part of the many fundamental organizational norms of constitutional importance, such as the President of the Republic, Parliament, the Constitutional Court, the Government and the Regions. I cannot even dwell on what it would take to amend Article 70 of the Constitution, which we could also call ridiculous if it were not unfortunately very dangerous. Today Article 70 of the Constitution defines the procedure for the formation of laws with a single line which states with great clarity: The legislative function is carried out collectively by the two Chambers. In the new text, which this Senate will soon be called to vote, Article 70 needed as many as 56 lines, necessarily confused, weak, destined to produce many interpretative contrasts. Not bad for a government that at its beginning promised (...) a drastic simplification of the legislation and that instead manages only to complicate simple rules that have worked well for decades. Perhaps in front of this mess every comment is really superfluous. With the new Article 70 we have reached the maximum possible of institutional confusion, of approximate and out-of-place transposition of mechanisms present in other foreign constitutions, of introduction of devices that make any decision of serious technical deficit in the drafting of the text of the norm. If the current text were to become the new Article 70 of our Constitution, we would not only have a gravely wrong Constitution, but also illegible and, in the specific case, in the process of forming laws the practical impossibility of bringing the laws to their definitive approval. This text, which I have read and which I have had to read, does not contain my own words but words, taken from a shorthand report that President Zanda used in relation to the 2005 reform of the then Berlusconi Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Petraglia.]] I didn't have to change a comma, except the reference to the 71 lines in Article 70, which is now 56. But these words are perfectly adapted to the situation we are now in. At the time, we saw, on that side, people tearing their clothes, shouting at the institutional tear. We have seen demonstrations and popular mobilization in the streets for a reform that, compared to what is about to be approved today, was perhaps less worse. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Malan.]] Today, the very people who were then shouting at the scandal and the democratic rift against that Government are the first advocates of a worse reform, which within it has an element that, even in its exposition, communicates its sense of upheaval: the Senate represents the institutions. We forgot about the citizens, and in order to prevent someone from calling them back tomorrow, we write it in the Constitution. The Senate represents the institutions. Not the people, not the citizens, but the institutions. This is the news: citizens, go! You are represented only by the House. The institutions have their own representative body. Therefore, in the Senate we will have representatives of the Regional Councils, and also some mayors (21 mayors, you do not understand how elected). The term "chosen" is then abused. Let's do two things in a very practical way. In a region like Lombardy, where the Democratic Party has 17 regional councillors, when they go to vote for the senators who will have to elect, I assume that the Democratic Party list will receive 17 votes (I don't think it will have the votes of the 5 Star Movement) and will identify perfectly the person who will be elected. Might as well name her, then, to avoid the waste of time and the mockery. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Rather, we ask who wants to be appointed to the Senate. And that applies to all parties. The hyper-majoritarian system is a system that even more increases the party-cracy and the nomination of parties. Not to mention these regional councillors, which are an element of unconstitutionality. These regional councillors have been elected with a very precise mandate to be regional councillors. No voters, when they voted for the election of the Regional Councils, knew that in the future that regional councillor would go to the Senate to decide on the Constitution, the electoral law and the most important matters. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This should already make us think and take a step back. If a House is to exist, it must exist by universal suffrage, it must be elected by the citizens and it cannot be appointed by the parties. This point has to be changed. That's the first point, the one we're gonna fight to the end. The Senate must be elected by the citizens. It doesn't matter the number. This is where we talk about the number, thinking that senators want to keep their armchairs and paychecks. President Renzi spoke about the dissidents of the Democratic Party who are mounting all this protest because they want to keep the money. When we say so, we are doing the anti-politics: but it is Renzi who accuses you of this. Well, let us show that this is not what we want, but that we want to maintain an instrument of guarantee in this country. And the Senate can still represent an instrument of guarantee, but not only, because even the House, in its bicameralism, can do so, as we can see every day, when laws containing majestic errors are passed, that the other House must correct (and that is once for the House, once for the Senate): how many times has it happened to hear the President of the Council say "we will correct it in the other House"? But when will this happen again? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not to mention, finally, the following peculiarity: the Senate may always ask to be able to decide on all the laws of exclusive competence of the Chamber, but in reality, more than deliberate, it will be a "parerificio" (parerificio), well, within ten days the Senate can ask to decide on the law, within 30 days it can give an opinion and within 20 days the Chamber will decide definitively: in the end 60 days, in which the law cannot be promulgated. Are these the efficiency and speed we want to achieve? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In those 60 days, the second Chamber - if it worked in the Commissions with certain rhythms, which we asked from the first day - could very well deliberate, with conviction and with certainty of what it is doing, having the mandate of the citizens. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u25	I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Crimi and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. PETROCELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u26	Mr President, in Italy, the debate on constitutional reforms and the establishment of the Federal Senate is now a constant of every legislature, which has been going on for thirty years. I am therefore surprised that someone is still talking too much of a rush in launching this reform. In 2005, however, thanks to the strong reformist will of the center-right government, the long parliamentary path of the constitutional reform law was closed and a text that already provided for the establishment of the Federal Senate, as a representative chamber of the interests of the territory and local communities was approved. The text, which is absolutely consistent in its reformer system, if it had passed positively to the scrutiny of the confirmation referendum, would have avoided other years of perfect bicameralism and therefore of legislative impasse. Too bad that those same left-wing forces that today loudly proclaim constitutional reform were the first to boycott the 2005 reform, making themselves the protagonists of a rearguard battle that led to the rejection of the text by means of the June 2006 referendum. (At 13.28 a.m.) (Following Mazzoni). That reform reduced the number of parliamentarians and streamlined the process of passing the laws: the model was that of single-camera proceedings, respectively, within the competence of the Chamber and the Federal Senate on the basis of the matters dealt with. It was a courageous reform, which created a balanced system of weights and counterweights, which had the objective of offering the Commission the ability to govern and citizens the sacrosanct opportunity not to see its vote frustrated by post-election agreements. In the reform there was also devolution, with the clause of supremacy in defense of the national interest, which surpassed the legislative tragedy caused by the concurrent legislation provided for by the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution wanted by the center-left. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u27	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator Mazzoni, but I have to ask the House to pay attention, because I think it is important that we start the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u28	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. Those of the left today, even on this point, are therefore only crocodile tears that certainly do not heal the institutional damage caused to the country, as evidenced by the lack of courage the no of the Democratic Party to the direct election of the President of the Republic. That said, there is nowhere to go with the recriminations: the abolition of the perfect bicameralism is an unavoidable turning point to begin a real reform process and the Nazarene agreement represents the basis and the framework of it. It is not the best possible, but the best, as you know, is often worse than the good. What, ultimately, does the Berlusconi-Renzi agreement provide? That the Senate is no longer elective, that it has no cost to taxpayers and that it no longer trusts the government. I immediately say that the original reform project presented by the Government was an indigestible mess, starting from the same regional representation for Val d'Aosta and Lombardy, from the prevailing presence of the mayors, from the twenty-one senators appointed by the Head of State and above all from the non proportionality of the senators expressed by the Regional Councils. Now, thanks to Forza Italia, the text has been improved: the criterion of proportionality has been introduced in the allocation of senatorial seats as we strongly wanted to prevent the Senate from becoming an anti-democratic monopoly of the majority. But it's not enough for someone. You are hanging yourself from the principle of the eligibility of senators, considered as the mother of all battles. I urge you to reflect on this point, because I do not believe that the elected Senate is at the top of the priorities of the Italian people and especially of the voters of the centre-right. The second-level election is not only the cornerstone of the agreement signed by our President, but it is also a balanced proposal, in line with the institutions of the other major European democracies. Just think that of the fifteen countries of Western Europe, seven do not have the Senate and in the other eight it is elective only in Spain. The two main issues surrounding the reform of the Senate, in short, are its composition and the functions assigned to it. Some say that these are two closely interwoven issues. In part it is true, but often those who support this thesis do so to say that if the Senate has significant powers it must also be elected directly and that is not true. A Senate may not be directly elected and have important powers: this is the case in Germany. That is, he can be elected directly and not have real powers: this is the case in Spain. The new Senate will not, however, be a useless clasp of the Chamber, since it will have competence over regional and European legislation, will elect the President of the Republic together with the Chamber, will elect the Supreme Council of the magistrates and the constitutional judges and will have a voice above all on electoral and constitutional laws. A body dealing with regional, supranational and institutional issues, leaving only the Chamber of Deputies the task of carrying out ordinary legislative work. So, no more perfect bicameralism, no compensation, no vote of confidence. What interests Forza Italia are essentially three things: that this reform does not adversely affect public finance; a clearer division between what is the responsibility of the State and what is the responsibility of the Regions, recovering some subjects from the State; that the new balance of powers that is determined through the new Senate does not lead to cases where the majority becomes overly predominant. These are the three points that we have put forward and that the text that came out of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs fully respects. Overcoming equalism is an important objective but the strengthening of the government's role in the legislative process is also important. One of the most serious problems of our model of government has always been the weakness of the Commission in Parliament. It is from this weakness that the abuse of decree-laws was born. Once this constitutional change has been approved, along with the Senate reform, the government will no longer have any alibi, because one of the rules approved by the Commission provides for a preferential path for the draft laws presented by the Commission. Finally, there is the question of immunity, a very delicate issue in a country where part of the judiciary is used to trespass in a political role that is not constitutionally its own and that has caused incalculable damage to the institutional balance, ending up trampling the popular will. Well, despite this, in my opinion it is not justifiable to extend tout court immunity to all those who will sit in the new Senate. It's my personal position. I believe that a different speech is to give them a regime to protect the indisputability of the opinions they express as senators - and therefore strictly confined to the exercise of their parliamentary function - which, however, cannot be extended and also applied to their work as regional advisers or mayors. One last thought, Madam President, is addressed to the dissidents of my party: we have to ask ourselves whether it is the agreement on reforms with Renzi that is bad for us or the image that we have given in recent months, of a party torn apart by internal disputes and the obnoxious attitude that we have had on reforms. We in this Parliament are essential to achieving change, and that certainly does not mean accepting everything that is proposed to us. We have not done so and we have achieved many important changes in relation to the draft reform presented by the Government. But, ladies and gentlemen, having a thousand strategists means having no strategy. The last thing we can afford right now is to appear as conservatives, caste defenders, those who actually want to keep the Senate unchanged. This really would not be forgiven by our constituents. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u29	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u30	Madam President, representatives of the Government, I begin by expressing a deep feeling, not of inadequacy, but of emotion for the role we are playing. To participate in structural reforms, to have an important impact on a Constitution that for many years we have considered the only reference not only political and ideal but also moral is an act that must be done with due seriousness and knowing the responsibilities that are assumed. This I want to say from the reform of the Senate, because a further element of emotion is the feeling, that everyone must feel, of the possibility of incurring errors, that it is always right to keep under control. For this discussion we start right from the Senate, but the discussion, which on the outside has been mediatically imagined and communicated as concerning the reform of the Senate, is not only - I insist much on this element that I consider important - trivially a modification of the role of the Senate, but it is a more structural and overall reform, which affects the bicameralism paritarian, making it no longer so, and therefore requiring a modification of the functions and roles of Chamber and Senate, and profoundly affects the role of the Chamber itself. I want to start from the role of the House, and then focus on that of the Senate, to emphasize, at this stage of my reflection, the fact that, for years, since I have been engaged in parliamentary roles (first in the Chamber of Deputies and, in this legislature, in the Senate), I hear debate and passionately participate in discussions on the need to put an end to equal bicameralism. It seemed obvious, and for us in the PD Group, for us in the PD Group, more generally, two things were taken for granted: that one could not go beyond with this system and that the diversification of functions would necessarily have to pass for a completely different electoral system, because it was not conceivable, we said for years, that with different functions Chamber and Senate had the same type of election and legitimacy. So there was a direct election for the House of Deputies and a second-level election for the Senate of the Republic. All this can be called into question, but it is part of the political heritage that we have cultivated for years. That is why on this point in the electoral system I would be more cautious in taking sides in political controversy, because we are discussing things that we have grown up on and which we have been discussing for years and which seemed to have reached a high definition point. I want to start with the House to say that the House of the future is profoundly different, also as a system, not only and not so much because of the electoral law, which is outside today's debate and on which we will be very careful to maintain the majority approach (which, moreover, with a popular referendum, also the population, and not only the politics, has confirmed) and to make those necessary changes so that we can no longer talk about the House of Representatives, about the House of Deputies. I believe, however, that at this moment we must discuss the reform that we are considering, knowing that the element of the majority system and of Italicum (which is looming and which, I repeat, needs to be changed deeply) has certainly not helped the debate, because it has dragged it onto a terrain that is not its own. The House of the future, in fact, is quite different because it responds to the principles of governability not only by virtue of the electoral system, which we have not yet voted on, but also by structural elements that have passed away from this reform. Colleagues, for years myself, in the roles I have played above all in the Chamber of Deputies, I denounced the phenomenon of excessive recourse to decree-laws (Mr Volpi well knows the discussions in this regard), the fact that it was not permissible for omnibus decrees to arrive and, all the worse, that it was not admissible that the decree-laws, when they were not omnibus, became laws that contained everything and more. This discussion lasted for years in our country, in the institutions and outside of them, up to the request of the Constitutional Court, messages even heavy of the Head of State. Well, let's talk about the positives of this reform: this reform gives an answer and also courageous. In fact, a government such as the current one, which accepted and provided for in its draft law (so it is not only the favourable opinion given to the whole article and every amendment approved in the Commission) to bind itself, in the sense that from now on it will not be a declaration of principle, but it will be such an important and imposing necessity that it affects the constitutionality of the laws, well it is a government that says a clear word. He says that innovations bind him, that he wants to win with innovations and that therefore he tends to reform also the behavior of politics, which is always done on the basis of himself. I would like to say with the same loyalty that I absolutely agree with another element introduced in the measure we are debating today, namely that a government can ask for some draft laws to have a priority: not all, but those on which it pays particular attention for reasons relating to the political project that it carries out. Why has there been excessive recourse to decree-laws in all these years? Perhaps only because there was an inability of the House and the Senate to work quickly? No, also for another reason: because a government may have needs that do not necessarily have the characteristics that are needed to issue a decree-law, but that must have a form of feedback. Well, in our reform, in what we still have to discuss, amend and approve in this House in the Senate and then in the House, there is a possible answer. I would like to remind everyone that with regard to the concept of governability, which today seems to be the opposite of representativeness, we must also note the fact that, after the decision of the Constitutional Court on Porcellum, it is useless to discuss it further, because it is an issue that has to do with the Constitution of our country. The principle of governability is not only a political objective: it is an objective that the institutions give themselves to an existing Constitution, according to our Constitution. So I started from these examples to say that the path we are also supporting as a Group of the Democratic Party finds within it elements of satisfaction that prescind from the diversification of functions between the House and the Senate, because it gives answers to age-old problems, which are not only these, but that they needed an answer. We cannot continue to do questions of principle and to make informal commitments on the behaviour to be carried out. When we move on to another phase in which commitments are made by the Constitution but it is said that, since it is necessary to govern, we also want a priority road, I think we must have courage and be loyal and transparent, because these reforms do not concern the Renzi Government, but the Government of the Italian Republic and the future. I was saying this to shift the attention of all of us to the fact that we are not just discussing the Senate of the Republic. Turning to the Senate, I understand that the greatest effort on this subject will be made here in the Senate of the Republic. I am sorry to have to say this, but I see a lot of inattention to the outside, even among my colleagues in the House, who will certainly be very attentive to the elements that will concern them, but they risk instead being not attentive to the change of the Senate of the Republic. The same debate on the number of Members and the fact that some of us have put forward proposals in this regard (I first tabled an amendment to reduce them to 500, which I withdrew because the Government had given a negative opinion on it), shows that many of us had different ideas, more than those that went through the Commission. There may be inattention, but there must not be, because the future Senate of the Republic is not about the senators who are in office, but the senators of the future is about the future of the Republic. It was then thought to try to build a Senate that had a valid, objective and measurable, because to say that in Italy it was necessary to maintain bicameralism, as present historically, would be too reductive and inconvenient. Some colleagues also proposed the suppression of the Senate; it could be a possible option, but we did not opt for this solution. We felt that doing what seemed to be a possible option in the Constituent's discussion, that is, giving value and representation to territorial authorities, made sense. This above all in a logic in which the Senate of the future, of which it will be positive to be part, will have functions of connection and not only between the Regions and the State, because in this connection will have to be included another element pertaining to the current Constitution. Things change, because we are in a Europe that tends to be a political body and that, even before it becomes a political body, issues measures that need to be implemented and, before that, they need to be codified. What contribution has Italy made to the codification and formulation of European acts? Until now, according to my own direct experience, which I have gathered and lived on my way to Brussels as a representative of the House and then of the Senate, the failing element, which was also pointed out by our Offices in the European Parliament, is the poor ability to engrave European measures. To affect European measures means to have prior knowledge of them, to be able to amend, reform and even propose them. Today's Italy is able to propose them. This linking function is then very ambitious and fills the gaps that we register today when we complain ex post of measures that seem inadequate to us and do not take into account our territorial reality and the characteristic of a country system that is evolving. I believe, therefore, that the challenge we are taking up, aimed at making sense of this Senate, maintaining a bicameralism that is not equal, even by increasing the possibility of our bicameralism to give answers that it has not so far given, is a positive challenge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Lo Moro. LO MORO (PD). Yes, ma'am, you understand that we've been arguing for months. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't set the time allocated to her. LO MORO (PD). In conclusion, to say that the Senate represents the territorial institutions bears consequences. The hypothesis of the electoral system - which is the responsibility of the ordinary, bicameral law, and we are not discussing it - that the Senate is part of regional councillors and mayors means that the most important territorial institutions of our country (the Regions and the Municipalities) will send their representatives to the Senate to represent the territorial authorities. There is consistency in the system, we will have plenty of other opportunities to discuss it, but above all, by addressing my so-called dissidents, who are my colleagues with whom we must discuss, not dissidents, I say that we have done a great job, even hard work, and it is right that it is recognised. The Government has worked with us and I want to acknowledge the Sub-secretaries present, but also Minister Boschi, who has worked with us effectively, giving a favourable opinion to amendments that have also radically modified the text of the Government. This is the House. The real challenge is that the House will also find the strength not to stand up for or against something, but to change what needs to be changed to make the reform more acceptable and voted for all. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u32	Madam President, I think that no reasoning on the reforms we are debating in this House can ignore the analysis, albeit short, of the time we live and put our hands on them. It is a historic era marked by a deep distrust of the institutions and in which the wind of the crisis of the mass parties, of the disaffection towards politics, of the old and the new populisms that have manifested themselves with great force even in the recent electoral round is now blowing on the whole of our continent. In particular, in our country the combined arrangement of the economic crisis, on the one hand, and the crisis of the representativeness of politics, on the other, risks constituting a real explosive mixture, dangerous for the same consolidated forms of representative democracy. In my opinion, this situation presents unprecedented aspects, which have never, if I may say so, seen the Republic in this way. In fact, there have been moments, in the recent and less recent history of our country, marked by a profound economic and social crisis, but at least the representativeness of politics was not so strongly questioned, indeed, it itself could represent even a sort of reference point from which to start, and other moments, instead, in which the crisis of politics did not correspond a so profound social crisis. A crisis - I would like to remind you always and also on this occasion - so lasting that has changed our country in the last ten years perhaps much more and much more deeply than we ourselves have been able to perceive. Well, I believe that this arranged combination, the social crisis on the one hand and the moral crisis on the other, perhaps our country had never known it in such striking dimensions. I make these considerations, because without this premise we do not fully grasp today's debate, and we do not even fully grasp the general risk that we run in our country: the risk that democracy runs. A democracy that, moreover, and I would like never to forget, is a young democracy, which has not yet been consolidated in its basic elements, starting with the failure to implement our Constitution, which remains the undiscovered nerve with which we have been confronting ourselves for many years. Ours is a democracy that is still measured by an element of incompleteness of popular participation in decision-making processes and with a structural deficit of interposition of the intermediate bodies (first of all the political parties in crisis, but also for example the trade union world), as a historical link between citizens and institutions, until the profound questioning of what should instead be the positive tension between representatives and representatives. So we have to ask ourselves this in our debate: why has this happened over the years? Why did the link between citizens and institutions go so far? I believe that it has not benefited even a little 'the trend of reforms that have been there over the past few years (those that have been made and those that have just been announced), because they all generally concern the effectiveness and speed of government action much more than they did in terms of representation. Certainly it has affected, within this difficulty of making democracy fully live in our country, the repeated attempt of formal and substantial reform of the Constitution, and also the real democratic involution that has generated some symptomatic phenomena, with which we also confront ourselves daily in this Parliament: the abuse of the question of trust, the electoral laws for a long time now focused on governance rather than on representation, the excessive use of decrees and maxiemaments. The absolute bond of fidelity, if I may say so, introduced by the last electoral law has really done the rest, putting Parliament, in fact and substantially, in a material impossibility to offset the strength and power of the leaders. In this context, which should see as an antibody to the crisis the use of increasingly marked and profound forms of popular participation, obviously compatible, from my point of view, and certainly not a substitute for the model of constitutional democracy, is the reflection that we are doing in these days. Madam President, I do not like to say that we are faced with neo-authoritarianism, because I think it is wrong to bend words to propaganda. But I think - and this I would like to say quite clearly - that, compared to what our country needs, this reform is inadequate, as well as messy in some fundamental elements, as has also been recognized by many external observers. Therefore, especially for this reason, it is wrong, not only because it is not necessary to widen the spaces of democracy, in order to promote those processes capable of integrating political representation in a democratic sense (e.g. by intervening on a key concept such as citizenship, which is less and less identifiable only with its legal configuration), but also because it makes the spaces of democracy less permeable, less passable, less participatory, in a historical era - as I have tried to say - in which the effort should have been another one in my opinion. And it should have been conducted not simply as a purely institutional initiative, but with a discussion support able to cross the entire country, the living country, not simply the parliamentary classrooms. Madam President, with the draft law we are discussing here, we are faced with the broadest possible reform of the Republican Constitution from the moment it came into force until today (it was also mentioned by those who spoke before me). Nothing comparable to other changes made in recent years to the constitutional text, some for the truth - let me say - really not too happy in the effects, like that of Title V of Part II, which was marked by the same haste and anxiety, even at the time too much propaganda, which we still see today, as if history had not taught anything. And also other recent changes, such as the rewriting of Article 81 on the obligation to balance the budget, result in a fallback on the functioning of the country not irrelevant and, above all, not positive. This is the largest draft constitutional revision - as I said - which has as its instrument a draft law that proceeds for the decisive impulse of the Government, also here with a forcing in relation to normal procedural rules. It is a reform - I come now to the merit - which introduces substantial changes in the relations between the Chambers, not only because it overcomes the perfect bicameralism (on this, however, we are not opposed), but because it profoundly changes the nature of the Senate, predicting - as we know well now - a second-level elective system, on the other hand, which we clearly mark a profound dissent on. To get to the point immediately, I believe that here we nest the aspect of greater criticality, on which it would have been more opportune to spend more attention and much less haste and engage a more careful reflection than we have been allowed to. To deny this possibility means anything but to avoid a waste of time, a defiant negotiation put in place by presumed brakes or supposed saboteurs. Of course, even in this case, propaganda can always be used, and it has often been done during these days, as if those who advance doubts, perplexities and dissensions were an enemy of progress or even an agent of the caste engaged in defending who knows what privilege. Of course, this can be done; it is a very convenient shortcut, if I may say so. But it is of no use to the country, it is of no use: it is simply a propaganda operation. And in any case, Madam President, I can assure you, it certainly does not help to frighten those who for a lifetime have been accustomed to hearing from the unthinking choir of the unique thought of being an impediment or an obstacle to who knows which trials, and then to discover instead that things were very different from how they were often unanimously represented. We have deep reservations about the substance and also about the way in which this reform is being carried out. We believe that the rewriting of a fundamental part of the Constitution, which concerns a representative body, is a huge change, which would have required greater weighting, greater possibility for Parliament to assess the options that can be implemented, because it is a project that profoundly changes the institutional structure and will affect the functioning of representation probably even for the next decades. I say this because I do not think at all that the best way to face the need, which we too feel no longer procrastinable, to renew the institutions is to hastily draw a line on what is there. We too think that the times are ripe for overcoming the perfect bicameralism. But are we really sure that by suppressing direct election, you choose the best system? We don't believe that at all. And we do not believe that especially if one of the reasons is that this reduces the cost of this constitutional body. We know that: it is not the senators' allowances, and with them the Members' allowances - on which, moreover, we are ready to intervene in a very drastic way, and even to a greater extent than the Government asks us - the greater weight for the state's coffers. As the state budget clearly shows, the prevailing cost is property, personnel, services and everything else. However, as a result of the changes that we are discussing these days, we will perhaps reduce the costs to a very small extent, but we will certainly reduce the representativeness and political weight of the Senate by a great deal. This is the opposite of a corporate claim. We would like to see a more serious reflection on the actual role of counterweight and rebalancing of the new Senate than the House of Deputies itself. In this regard we really feel that we share the opinion expressed by many authoritative constitutionalists, according to which a Senate such as the one envisaged will in no way be able to balance the powers of the Chamber, especially if it will be the so-called Italicum, with its anonymous barriers and its blocked lists, to determine the formation of the latter, i.e. if the absolute majority of the Members will be enough to cancel the deliberations taken in the few legislative powers remaining to the new Senate. It seems clear to us that in this way there is a risk that any idea of balancing with the full legislative power of the House of Deputies will be thwarted. It is for this reason that we believe that this reform is not an extension, but a narrowing of the spaces of democracy: on this we want to see a confrontation in this House and, above all, a confrontation between the country. The residual role of the new Senate appears here in full evidence and drives us to say not by paradox that perhaps the idea of providing for the total repeal of this branch of Parliament would have been wiser. Again, as I said earlier, we have great doubts that indirect election can make the new organ more functional, but with a blocked system that greatly increases the discretion of the great voters. I really don't understand how you don't see it. This creates - in our opinion - a twist that restricts the spaces of democracy and gives the composition of a Chamber to a self-referential circuit that, in conjunction with an electoral system such as Italicum, blocks the representation circuit and creates precisely the famous and so vicious Chamber of Appointments. I am not going to say any more about the effects of the quorum formation on the election of the Head of State, because the distortions that are determined there are frankly so obvious that we can avoid even describing them, and from this point of view I do not think it is enough to mitigate the positive sub-amendment adopted over the past few days. Here is the blow that is being given to democratic representation. If this system does not even pose the problem of tempering the most questionable aspects, with the introduction and strengthening of forms of direct democracy and democratic participation, it will become more difficult for citizens to make their voices heard. We have lowered the quorum threshold for the referendum, but the number of signatures to be reached is rising to be able to present it. And the same is true of popular initiative laws: from 50,000 to 250,000. In essence, it seems to us that the whole of institutional reforms constitute a reduction and not a widening of the spaces of agility, and we say so - and I insist on this ground - without the fear of incurring the all too often abhorrent replies that regularly reach those who allow themselves to advance doubts. We say this because we care about the issue of reforms and because we are light years away from any element of self-preservation, more: as I said at the outset, we are fully aware of the crisis that goes through representative democracy. If you will allow me, Madam President, we have already understood this for a few years. Already in 2000, when the first world forum on democracy and participation was organized in Porto Alegre, we were present, but at the time the unique thought probably didn't even know what we were talking about. Let me say this, Madam President, with a certain dismay at the unceasing demand for simplification, speed, procedures treated as annoyance and as a quirk, the objections reduced to annoying background noise. All this is not good, but not because it is not good for us, but because it cannot work so a democracy that can and must be self-formed. We believe that the self-reform of politics and institutions is necessary, very necessary, but another thing is when the elected bodies are asked for the pure and simple ratification of what the government has decided, when the speed, that is, presupposes the reduction of the counterweights in order to make room for the myth of a decision-making democracy, when it wants the decisions to travel on the direct line that connects the leader to the citizens. This approach is dangerous and brings us rights to that particular evolution of Western democracies that many scholars have called with a name that says it a lot: democracy of the public. I think we must be radically opposed to this torsion that can also go through the democracy of our country. Of course, the crisis of representative democracy is the great political problem of our time, on this we must reflect and build appropriate counter-measures. The unpopular measures required by international bodies to deal with the effects of the economic crisis seem to have accelerated the crisis itself, calling into question, rather than the effectiveness of the decisions of the Executives, once again the speed with which they are taken and the ability to bypass the intermediate bodies of society. This too seems to us to be very dangerous, not really a contribution to the quality of democracy. It seems to us that this crisis highlighted by the success of the populist movements that propose the emptying, the overcoming, even the destruction of all forms of organized politics, has, however, become a sort of permanent exception, an opportunity not to widen the participation and the instruments of control of the governed over the rulers, but to dismantle the balances and counterweights necessary for a pluralist democracy. It is thought that the cure is to increase the power conferred on a single legislative body and, from here, on its winning side or even on its leader, to perhaps assure that leader that, once he has won the place of power, the place of command, then he will be the only one able to exercise it. We do not think that this is the way to remedy the crisis of representation: instead we think that in this way we take a shortcut that leads not far away. It may be true that this may not be the case, but it happens, Madam President, that sometimes when we take a road it is the road itself that leads us and not we decide where to go. We do not want this reform to lead our democracy to a path that is not only dangerous, but also without an exit. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bulgarelli and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief introduction, as I am the first in my group to speak. It seems to me correct to clarify initially a very important point, a point that is constantly mystified by the Government and the press. Today we are starting a debate between parliamentarians elected by the sovereign people who will discuss a reform that reaches the heart of our democratic system and which has a profound impact on its institutional architecture. Minister Boschi has not missed the opportunity to point out that the 5 Star Movement in these hours will obstruct to block the country. It's not like that. We are here to discuss, confront and try to persuade this House, discussing with other Members, not to vote for the reform of this Senate as the Minister and the Government have thought and imposed it, first in the Commission and then in the House. That this handful of a few hours missing from the vote on the choice between canceling an elective Senate, a direct expression of the people, in a part-time job percent nominated, that this short time is called "obstructionism" is the sign of the little respect that this Government has for democratic practice and of how Parliament no longer has any role, has no weight anymore, in this "Italy" that changes towards you imagined. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As my colleagues go into examining the rules and revealing the loss of power of the citizen who hides this reform, I will concentrate on the general plan and begin, precisely so as not to waste this precious time available, from indicating immediately the point of arrival to which this reform tends and above all the inappropriate, anti-democratic and authoritarian methods by which the objective of overcoming the perfect bicameralism is being pursued. The aim is to concentrate power in the hands of the Government and, in particular, in the hands of one man. Our action is therefore not - as we hear obsessively repeating - aimed at stopping the country, but at ensuring that any reform of the State, any profound change in our Constitutional Charter is the result of a reflection shared by all, majority and opposition. Our aim is to prevent the people from being deprived of sovereignty, guaranteeing the eligibility of parliamentarians, their direct representation and, above all, guaranteeing a system in which the powers (and this is very important) are in balance. The balance of power is the founding principle of any democratic and parliamentary system and it is that which will fail with this reform, also thanks to the coupled with the electoral law, the Italicum (if it is voted, also that). Renzi aims to have everything and in an authoritarian way acts to pursue an authoritarian objective. In this it is consistent, for charity, organic in methods and objectives. With this reform you will have the opportunity to decide all the President of the Council: your Government and its majority will decide the laws, the President of the Republic, the CSM. We will be very, very far from the distinction between the three autonomous and independent legislative, executive and judicial powers, as our Constitutional Charter would like. We are talking here about vivisecting the Constitution and replacing its organs with an open-heart operation. The result will be a Frankestein Constitution, or better still a Constitution from Dr Moreau Island, without any respect for the legal harmony and the organicity of the principles contained in our Charter. There are no perfect systems, but everyone, I say everyone, has systems for balancing powers. Imagine then how efficient and productive the work of a regional councillor or a mayor can be, who for two or three days stays on the board and for two or three days comes to Rome. It's unbelievable to think that he can work profitably. You think that his stay in the Senate will be linked to the local elections, so here, in this House, the majorities will change, the numbers will change, the balances in the Commission will change. There will be so many measures that will stop and then start again, and sobbing discussions. How is it possible to imagine a Senate made by a hundred nominations who legislate in this way? It is true that you keep repeating that the bicameral system is redundant, but does this seem to be an efficient solution? This Parliament has long been inhibited in its very important legislative role. It is not just a problem today, it is rather tired to remember how many times there has been the abuse of the decree, how many times the government makes the laws instead of Parliament and then puts the trust on it; and so, goodbye, goodbye, possibility of amending and voting, the democratic system of debate is being bypassed. For God's sake, it is not only Renzi who did it: there is a long tradition of decree of urgency, of pulpet decrees with everything inside, of abuse of trust; but this time Renzi wants to go further, fly high really, overcome this imperfect authoritarian system and make it authoritarian and perfect, efficient. The Italians have not even noticed it, because - it has to be acknowledged - an excellent job of misinformation was done by the TG of regime. For example, on the RAI (which, moreover, I remind you, by October Renzi will completely reform, and here too there will be a serious reflection and prevent the public service from becoming Renzi's private service) all the news reassure us on the capacities of the President of the Council and sell the lie that without this reform the country would be blocked. Many citizens, addicted to the bieco language, by these mantras, by this teleshopping that in the last twenty years has really clouded us, by the chatter, exhausted by the crisis, in the end they still believe him. But how? If that was what blocked the country, if it was the lack of this vital reform, why didn't many of your party colleagues vote for the 2006 reform? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why did citizens also vote against the end of the perfect bicameralism, rejecting that reform? He's changed his mind. On the other hand, the media are also used effectively against those who oppose it. For example, it would be fun to hear the adjectives and offensive judgments dispensed right and wrong by the President of the Council, amplified by TV and newspapers, if it were not that the situation is really serious and that the future of the country is at stake. It saddens us to feel constitutionalist emeritus defined by Renzi, through the media, professors and wigs, as well as to give owl to those who pose a doubt. If you ask an uncomfortable question, you end up among those who stand up against and are called a brake, gentlemen, brake. What an ugly Italian: a defeatist or - worse - a rosicone. I repeat: a roacon. But how does our President-in-Office think? Is that how you think? It's creepy. Renzi is very good at pinning the adjective right, at least when expressed in Italian, and then making it repeat by everyone until exhaustion. But this is not political; at least it is not what we have learned and that we should have inherited from the constituent Fathers. Speaking of which, doesn't that language squeal to your ears? Words like wigs, brakes, would you hear them spoken by Piero Calamandrei, Vittorio Foa, Einaudi and Togliatti? I don't think so. How far have we been since then? What is the sidereal distance between Renzi's announcements and slogans today and the words and thoughts of those who struggled, suffered and died imagining a free and republican Italy? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is remembered on that plate above your head, President. These are those who have weighed, weighed and assessed individually every single word of our Constitutional Charter and who, if he were alive now, would see it corrected with the red pen and rewritten in a column on the side, as on the sheet that showed a heart attack of obbrai, such as the elimination of the principle of the eligibility of senators, their representativeness and the balance of powers. What are the ways to replace the senators in the Commission who are not in the rules and move them? We are not talking about dissent on an ordinary law, but about a constitutional law. Is it possible that a few people feel this indignation, that they respond superficially, that the PD has made a convention with 30 lawyers and that no one has said anything against this reform? This is the result of the analysis; these are the statements made by Minister Boschi at "Il Fatto Quotidiano" (Il Fatto Quotidiano). They had nothing against it: he told the journalist. That's all: end of doubts, end of questions, end of discussions, end of all reasoning. There is a Parliament with oppositions, which are not only Berlusconi's, but are sitting in Parliament: the 5 Star Movement, SEL and the North League. There are also internal oppositions to Forza Italia, the New Right Center and the PD. They ask for simple and democratic things, in line with the constitutional spirit. They've been silenced. In a democratic debate on the soul and the basic principles of our system, the rules must be written in a shared way. Specchia and arrogance are not qualities that fit the premier of a Republic. No, they fit and are seen more in dictators. This Parliament, when it wants, knows how to work, both in the Commission and in this House. The problem is not one or two rooms: two rooms that work simultaneously on different bills produce double. You tend to forget that. Not only that: a multiple reading may not be the fastest process, but democracy has its own time, but it also allows citizens, associations, committees and society to participate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You hear the comments, you hear the hearings in the Commission and you correct the bill. This is not a waste of time, especially if the political forces involved, even before lobbying interests, have at heart the fate of the country and work with responsibility, involving citizens in a transparent way. This doesn't mean wasting time. It sounds redundant, but it should be repeated. Many times it has happened in the Commission that this work has borne fruit. The last case, which we remember, occurred in the Chamber and concerned a bill of parliamentary initiative: the bill for international cooperation. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this House we complimented each other: what a good thing and what a sense of responsibility we had. Don't obstruct us. PD asked us. We did not do that: we cooperated, many amendments have passed and everything has gone as planned. After 27 years of failure, there is finally a law on cooperation. So, can Parliament work? Even perfect bicameralism can be efficient. I could give you more examples, but I don't want to distract you. What's the point of abolishing and transforming the Senate? Saving? But everything remains standing: palace and employees. You opposed the amendments for the reduction of allowances. What are we talking about? It would be enough to cut wages by half and, without even reducing the number of Members, it would be spared. And so for refunds! It can be done right away. Yeah, I know, we're repetitive and we always tell you. But you never do! They don't stand up to the arguments that we would be among the only ones to have bicameralism and so it's better to change. But how can in this complex context, uniqueness be a negative criterion of evaluation? The comparison with the constitutional systems of other European countries, as you often argue on television, answering the enthusiastic questions of certain press, is also very superficial. A comparison on the functioning of the Senate between profoundly different systems is improper. Needless to say, we cannot compare the Senate in a parliamentary Republic with that of a monarchist like Spain or Germany, partly because our regions are quite different from the Länder or presidential ones like France. If a comparison is to be made on bicameralism, perfect or not, the institutional, political, cultural, economic and social contexts of the various countries must be taken into account. Here is a superficiality that lets us see - allow me the term - the arrogance that manifests the Government and its majority, at least the part that remains faithful. This Parliament is only able to work with the right spirit and methods when there is no pressing interest in lobbying, power groups or powerful individuals. This shows that the problem is not here, in these classrooms, but in those who occupy them and in the interests they bear. When you want to reason together in the interests of the Italian people, you can find compromises even between majority and opposition. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But the parliamentary confrontation and the decisions taken become vain, when Renzi meets in private with Berlusconi, when we meet in the secretariats and in the subscale of the party offices, when Renzi makes secret agreements, signs pacts in the personalistic interest of the former Knight and of the familistic and oligarchic cordades interwoven for years and consolidated in the light of the broad understandings: secretly, among other things, without streaming. And then you tease us about streaming when no one knows what they said. And, on the one hand, we still hear the President of the Council say that mistakes made, for example, on the bill on the civil responsibilities of magistrates can be corrected in one House or the other. It is good, therefore, that there is this perfect bicameralism, because it has also happened other times that scandalous amendments have been voted on and then corrected. On the other hand, when it is not Renzi who wants to correct something but it is the opposition forces or those who are not aligned with the unique thought of doing, here appear confidences and guillotines we counted 7 to the Senate and 14 to the House since the beginning of the year. This is why Renzi considers it a priority before even voting on measures for work, or paying the debts of the public administration that have not yet been fully paid, or thinking of those who do not have a salary or a home, to bring home this reform in a hurry: because it is essential for him to ensure the end of the democratic opposition and dissent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thus he will be free to exercise power alone and all of you, and all of us, will be in a position not to disturb its full and definitive exercise. In this scenario what will be yours and our place? What will be your power to represent the citizens and the interests of the voters? Since the power in Renzi's hand will be strengthened beyond measure and Berlusconi is only thinking about his safe conduct, are you sure you don't fall off the victor's chariot? Perhaps it will not happen today, perhaps not tomorrow but for how long can it last? If you do not give him a strong and unequivocal signal today, you will be fully at his service. Or do you want to end up like Minister Poletti who, in an article that appeared a few days ago, told that with Renzi, when he catches him distracted in a meeting, is it better to justify himself saying that he was sleeping, rather than saying that he was thinking? This is the end we will do: those who will pay the highest price of this reform will not be the caste, but as always the citizens, who will be deprived of the vote and the possibility of choosing direct representatives. I would like to make one last very important consideration, especially for the Italians and the citizens who listen to us from outside: if Renzi, in the name of efficiency, will expose the democratic debate of this parliamentary system and eliminate any possibility for the opposition to really affect political life, what can it mean? The answer is that, if you do, it's because you never go to the opposition again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Any majority, in fact, knows that, sooner or later, it might be up to you to go to the opposition and will have respect for it, to the extent that you know that there is an alternation in a democratic system. Gentlemen, this alternation is over or on the edge of the end: democracy is really in serious danger and, today more than ever, the interests of the citizens are at risk. If this reform passes, we will have no less chaste, gentlemen, but we will have more, even more caste appointed, even further from the eyes and ears of the voters, as well as from the principles enshrined in our Constitutional Charter: now it is up to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u35	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u36	Madam President, in the examination of this draft constitutional law, I would like to start with a few comments that have been made this morning by the two rapporteurs who have spoken and, in particular, I would like to acknowledge the start of an excellent work which has been done within this Senate - especially in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - in order to remedy an approach to the draft law which created several difficulties and major problems, especially from a legal and constitutional point of view. As I have also said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the draft constitutional law we are debating, in my view, is in a way that is even de-grammaticated from a constitutional point of view. The text, fortunately, has also been corrected - and in part this correction has been started within the Commissions - so much so that, when the two rapporteurs tabled their amendments, so to speak, 'unified', we already saw that the original text had been radically transformed. I would like to remind you quickly of a couple of issues: basically, out of 31 articles of which the text of the constitutional bill was formed - except for the last ones dealing with transitional and final rules and provisions - eight were replaced in full and one was asked for the deletion, while then there were substantial deletions of several paragraphs of other articles. This, therefore, has already given rise to a lack of acceptance by the two rapporteurs and the Commission of a text which, I repeat, was constitutionally grammatical. Following further work carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, therefore, we are faced with a different text than the one initially presented by the Government, which, as we have seen, had already changed it at least a couple of times in some of its initial approaches. Last week, in a room in this Senate, a conference-debate was organized with high-level constitutionalists on constitutional reform, which was titled "Constitutional democracy and balance of powers." The Apories of Constitutional Reform. Now, rather than the original meaning of the concept of aporia, I would like to refer to the concept of aporia in the socratic sense, adapting it to the case: rather than talking about an unworkable passage or a road now without way out, I prefer to stick to the socratic meaning of aporia and then talk about a phase of the socratic maieutics aimed at liberation from false knowledge, liberation from the conviction of having certain truths. Here, in my view, the mistake of origin from which this constitutional bill was based consisted in the claim to possess the absolute and indisputable truth, which could not be touched, and criminalized anyone who allowed himself - especially within the government majority - to express legal, political and constitutional assessments and observations in dissent. That is precisely why, not even sharing this form of aggression, we have tabled as a group of Senators of the Democratic Party, in the Commission (and we will do so in this House by the deadline set for tomorrow) a series of amendments which we consider to be qualifying precisely to overcome these aporias. Having said that, I would immediately like to make it clear, and to avoid any controversy that has already been raised and formulated, that we are absolutely not opposed to this constitutional reform as well as we are not opposed to constitutional reforms, because there are some points - which I would like to remind you - on which we agree. For example, the fundamental issue of overcoming the prefect, or equal, bicameralism that we want, sees us absolutely consenting: we have been talking about it for decades; it is a subject that must certainly be addressed and overcome also from the legal-constitutional perspective that is beginning to come to light in this House. In the same way, we fully agree on another fundamental point, which is that of cutting, as it were, the number of Members and consequently the expenditure. Indeed, I would add that on this point we have also been much more radical, in the sense that, for example, we have advocated from the outset a reduction to 100 in the number of senators - so this is also well indicated in the text of the Government and the Commission - but at the same time the halving of the number of Members, who in our view should go from 630 to 315. On the other hand, there are other interim amendments that propose a reduction in the number of Members (some speak of 500, others 470): we will see, during the debate in this House, what number we are attested to and then how to vote. Another important point that we absolutely share is the fact that the relationship of trust with the Government must be with only one House, in this case with the Chamber of Deputies. So, these certainly important points are shared. I would like to add immediately that there are equally important points which in our view are not acceptable and we propose amendments to them. One of the fundamental points that we do not agree with is the well-known election of the Senate. We are also convinced of this because we, but I believe in virtually everyone in this House, including Senator Calderoli, as he said this morning, have fought that notorious law called Porcellum for years; Well, after so many years of saying that it is no longer acceptable for citizens to be unable to vote for their representatives, now the government is proposing a text for which the Senate would continue not to be voted by the citizens. They would be second-level, even third-level votes, and the senators - as we know very well in political practice would happen - would be appointed by the parties and not by the citizens, which we absolutely do not want. We therefore want an elective Senate according to the instructions we make. Another fundamental point that we believe needs to be reviewed in depth is that of the functions to be given to this Senate. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that on this front too the government has opened up the meshes, the grid it had formulated at the beginning, as the Commission has done, adding to the competences in the field of equal legislation other than the constitutional ones, but there are points that remain outside and are decisive for the evaluation of the state of a democracy. We believe, for example, that when we intervene on matters relating to personal or religious freedom, when we intervene on guarantee bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, the Supreme Council of the judiciary, that is, everything that has to do with guarantees for citizens, we need to approve, evaluate, discuss and vote on by both Chambers. From two Chambers because, as we have seen in recent years, the presence of a Chamber with respect to the other has often determined the correction of laws that go out badly, sometimes, let's say so too, made with the feet, and in some cases laws that have also been considered provocations. Then, the question of so-called parliamentary immunity was included at some point in this approach. Our small group of PD senators believes that only the guarantee provided for in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution should be maintained, i.e. that the opinions and votes expressed during the parliamentary term of office should be unassailable. We believe that the parliamentary immunity referred to in the second and third paragraphs is now completely out of history, a medieval heritage that certainly made sense in 1200, when it was introduced given the presence of feudal regimes, emperors, popes who had temporal power and vassals of various kinds. At that time it was necessary for the representatives of the people to have a guarantee against the abuses and restrictions of freedom of the representatives of the people themselves. Now, after the repeal of the Albertine Statute and the fall of the fascist regime, it no longer makes sense. We will say it better when we present our amendments in detail. In 1948, when our Constitution came into force, this immunity still made sense because we came out of a particular historical era, because the judiciary in 1948 was still heavily and culturally fascist and because in 1948 we had a procedural system that gave no guarantee because any prosecutor could issue an order of capture, writing as motivation: there are sufficient clues as in acts, and capturing anyone. It doesn't work like that anymore. Now we have a different cultural and social formation of the judiciary, we have a completely different process and guarantee systems (the gip, the review court, the Court of Cassation), which are certainly end-of-process guarantee systems that work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u37	Senator Casson, please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u38	CASSON (PD). President, I have 20 minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've got ten minutes. CASSON (PD). I am entitled to 20 minutes from the Rules of Procedure and I appeal to the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Group has made this definition. We'll subtract them from the others. FERRARA Mario (GAL). There's no quota. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said go ahead. CASSON (PD). On immunity, however, we will present and present some amendments. There are some points that I quickly want to remember for obvious reasons. I used to talk about aporia. Now I want to mention some small falsehoods or half-truths that are being told about this matter by attacking those who do not share the approach that the Government gave on the points I mentioned earlier. We are told that this is a request from Europe. Who knows why: at European level I have never heard anyone ask us about Senate reform. In Europe, they don't even know how many rooms we have and what the Senate's competences are. Europe is interested in other reforms, such as economic, labour, finance and budget reforms. [[Applause from Senator Scavone's M5Se Group]] Those are the reforms on which we must intervene and we do not tell these falsehoods about them. Let us not even expect a sort of halo of holiness by quoting the work of our constituent Assembly. It is true that during our constituent Assembly there was talk of bicameralism, of different forms of Senate, but if we go to read the acts we realize that all, both those in favour and those opposed to bicameralism, spoke of representativeness as the key necessary for the construction of strong and lasting institutions because for all in the representative assemblies there was the will of the sovereign people. Through the prospect of the new electoral law called Italicum in a bad way, as well as this constitutional reform we risk reaching a limitation of the institutions of democracy in our country. But I would also like to mention another point: it is said that this reform would help us to overcome the delays, the costs of politics and so on. It would be enough in the opposite sense to think - these are also data that I have already mentioned earlier - about how the reduction in the number of Members would largely cover the presumed costs of this constitutional reform of the Senate, as set out. Another fact that is highlighted by the presenters of the reform is that it refers to the other European states, so it is said that this system would almost not align itself with those examples; it is the opposite. If we consider the German model first, for example, we must take account of the fact that in the Bundesrat the representatives of the executives of the Länder who vote en bloc for the Land of which they belong. It is not even true that this new system would be similar to the French one. It should be remembered that France has recently taken exactly the opposite path, imposing an incompatibility between the role of national representative and that of territorial representative. It should not be forgotten, among other things, that precisely the French example has been deleterious: almost online or in any case similar to what happens in Italy, that choice has caused failures in the transparent and clean management of politics at the local level and that is precisely why that model must be overcome. Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that unfortunately, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, what was the position of a small group of Senators of the Democratic Party, there has been a heavy disinformation and censorship, which we absolutely do not accept, because we are fully aware and convinced of our guaranteed role in the Constitutional Charter, in particular, but not only, by Article 67 of the Constitution. None of us, in fact, is animated by who knows what anti-government will, much less by destructive will towards the government's plan. We are aware of the importance of this historic moment, of this reform, which we want to propose and carry forward with profound correctives - as we have proposed and as we propose in our amendments - because the Republican Constitution is destined to last for decades: it will certainly last longer than me, more than this Senate and this majority and will certainly last longer than this Government. This is the perspective in which we must move and it is from this perspective of institutional awareness, which is also social, political and ethical, that we will move, because we are convinced that we need to find an institutional balance in order to safeguard and guarantee the pillars of our democracy, not in the immediate and for the next three or four years, but in the decades to come. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, PI, Misto-ILC and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Ferrara]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking Mr Casson for what he has just said, because we understood that he did not ask for ten minutes, but that he had only been given ten minutes. We are not talking about the conversion of a decree-law, but about constitutional reforms. This leads me to go back with my memory to when the work began in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Senate. We immediately witnessed something about the antipodes of democracy: the compression of the right of opinion of the senators, who were replaced and, to follow, the grimness of out-of-place words that were reserved for them in the press. We are well aware of the level of will compression and that what we are doing here escapes the conscience of the citizens. This is the other distortion we're experiencing. Years ago, simply to modify a paragraph of the Constitution, we would have read in the newspapers entire "lenzuolate" of academics, rather than of opinionists, ready to give their suggestions or their instructions on how to modify the Constitution for the good of the people. In these weeks we have seen on the front page the football match and all the most futile events put before the constitutional reforms. Even Sunday, as each of you may have been able to verify, I happened to find in the fifth, sixth, seventh page and in some newspapers not even those, a trace of the constitutional reform in progress. It is not about the reform of the election of the Senate, but about a whole title of the Constitution. This is another point that has been misrepresented, and people are made to believe that the day after the approval of this reform of the Senate the economy will start again, and there will be no more problems of work or spread, word we have forgotten. In the past months and years we have seen entire governments fall under the blows of the spread; now everything has magically disappeared. Sometimes, however, some ministers appear in the press saying that we must make reforms quickly because Europe is asking us to do so. But what is this Europe that asks us for reforms or even obliges us to revise our constitutional bodies? Back in the day, without going after that nineteenth-century plaque, a state that had been guilty of interfering in the constitutional organization of another state, would have predetermined conditions of war at least. Here, on the other hand, we hear ministers saying that we must redo our constitutional bodies because Europe is asking us to do so. However, no one has yet explained to me under what circumstances and by whom. So here is the other mystification: to make people believe that these constitutional reforms correspond to the well-being of our democracy. I fear that over time we will see what mistake the Government is making with the lack of direct election rather than with choices that deprive citizens of the ability to intervene effectively and truly inclusively in the process of forming laws. I am thinking of the 800,000 signatures required by the new constitutional proposal for the repealing referendum. Citizens are much more mature to participate in the democratic process than the government wants us to believe, and we find it quite unlikely to believe that there is a clear will to lie than these statements because only a few months ago we were told that the most important thing was the participation of citizens with preferences. It was said by those who are sitting on the benches of the President of the Council of Ministers today: all forgotten, all neglected. Today, citizens are no longer even able to participate in the democratic process and let the regional councillors choose who will be senator. Of course, even the newspapers in the past years have given us much in tearing down the credibility of the institution. We remember all the various Rizzo and Stella who have hammered the institutions, until they lose credibility to public opinion in an undifferentiated way, mixing what was going and that really needs to be changed and removed from what instead of democratic and value exists, leading people to confuse the value of democracy with the cost of politics. This is another of the great mystifications that are bringing this reform to the landing place in the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio.]] The late attempts of Piero Ostellino, who a few days ago on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) defined the replacement of the old Senate as confirmation that the President of the Council as a reformer is an incompetent or a cheater or Eugenio Scalfari who, on the "Republic" of a few Sundays ago headlined: How good is the premier! But who's going to fix the mistakes he's making? Late are the hypocrites, who after demolishing the credibility of the institutions, seem to be able to testify that they had said so. Who knows that posterity may not have to ask them to account for what they have written in the newspapers for years with respect to the institutions and our democratic abilities. In view of this, today this reform is coming to the House, which is of particular interest to us: we do not focus particularly strongly on the issues related to the electoral form of the Senate, although they may be totally acceptable and even sustainable on our part. Our heart beats for Title V of Part II of the Constitution and for everything regarding the federal settlement of the country. Years ago we completed a reform, which gave a first federalist breakthrough. We are well aware that the same majority forces, which sit on government benches today, have drowned it down. Then allow us to be genuinely concerned, because in the face of an activity done in the Commission, which has led the rapporteurs to modify the text and the Commission itself to propose a considerably different one from the one proposed by the Government, which gives the Regions a position, even if not totally fundamental, for their specific matters of competence, there is, however, a Government that does not give us confidence in the implementation of the federalist part of this reform. Then our concern rises, if it is true that on the agenda which was approved in the Commission and which cost - let us say so - the "skin" to Senators Casson, Mauro and Chiti, it was hoped that the exercise of the legislative function in the matter of exclusive state competence would be conferred on one or more regions: this is differentiated federalism. This text has been approved by the Commission: this is the agenda indicted, and on this same agenda there was talk of direct election. Once again, I ask you: how much do we have to make fun of ourselves, approving every time motions and agendas that are then rag paper? (Senator Candiani tears a sheet of paper.) How much do we have to make fun of ourselves, Minister? When we approve motions and agendas we do so believing in ourselves, because we know that democracy is not a useless burden, but something that our people need to be able to say that they live in a democratic country. This is what worries us about the reforms, that is, the Government that will have to implement them and the ability not to lie to the citizens: unfortunately, however, the lie appears increasingly widespread in the government's activity, until it makes us believe that these reforms will result in the very health of the country's economy. It is certain that the reforms are necessary and we are not opposed to the fact that they are being discussed in this House, as demonstrated by the fact that we did not present any preliminary questions at the beginning of the debate because we want to compare the content of the reform and certainly the amending phase will be crucial for us to understand what this reform really is, if it is simply a selfie agostan, that the President of the Council of Ministers wants to do under the umbrella with the approved legal text, or if it really has a scope that we hope and that it can give the country a federalist impetus. It will all depend on the work that will be done in this House, on the agendas and on the amendments tabled. So much so if not everything has been hidden from the citizens and I still wonder today if it was not right some time ago Ennio Flaiano, when he said that stupidity has reached such levels as to become almost a blinding sun, that you can no longer look without being dazzled, that around it sucks everything and sows terror. This is the climate that the Government has spread in the Assembly about constitutional reforms, almost to intimidate the ability of individual senators to profess their own contrary opinion: what is said by the sun cannot be contradicted. This is what is farther away from the democratic value of constitutional reform. Today we tell the citizens that we will be watching over the amendments in the next few days, because we have not distracted ourselves with regard to Articles 116, 117 and 119 of the Constitution and in realizing the dangerous neo-centralist drift that inspired the Government in its proposal, partly corrected by the work of the Commission. We also know that, as Pareto said, debauchery often does not encounter a very effective resistance on the part of the stripped; and that the action of debauchery itself ends up being arrested only by the dissolution of wealth and what follows, of course, can only be the ruin of the country. History teaches us that more than once the dispossession ended with killing the hen from the golden eggs. Be careful not to fall into the deception of a democratic debacle of the country, because this is the start, we start by believing that it is enough to eliminate one Chamber and concentrate everything in the other, of which the number of components is not even retouched, so that, as we will see then when examining the amendments, it will have to be at least defended in its own constitutional sustainability, both in terms of weights and counterweights, and in terms of rationality, if one of the stated aims is to reduce the costs. At this moment there is equality between the two rooms: 630 cost much more than 315 plus 5. But another thing that is not said by the Government is that nothing will change, because there are still 800 implementing decrees to be issued, Minister Boschi, still from the Monti Government. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] All the roboating titles with which the decree-laws are today titled have no effect, because the bureaucratic structure of the State, which must then implement them, does not implement them; this is the part that remains hidden and that is not touched by these constitutional reforms. You are leaving the country in the hands of a bureaucracy that is certainly condescending or that, even worse, you cannot govern. (Minister Boschi is engaged in a conversation.) Mr Boschi, since you are the only representative of the Government, pay at least attention to these words, since the House is incredibly full today to support the speeches of the speakers with great applause. Let's say for those who listen to us, we will be present perhaps in 100, the same number of future senators. You get used to this climate, but don't think the North League will turn your attention down, because if you appreciate our attention to the reform path, you will also appreciate that we are not in any way willing to haggle the freedom of our people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u40	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u41	Madam President, last week Prime Minister Renzi, at the end of the Council of Ministers, said that he would like to discuss the substance of the reforms, because when he hears about authoritarian management, a smile is printed on his face, so much is the absurdity of this accusation. Now, considering that he always smiles because of the natural inclination of his face, if not for maxillary conformation, I would really invite President Renzi to come to the Senate to discuss reforms, rather than in via del Nazareno, because, frankly, I do not think he understood the gravity of his evil project. The accusation of authoritarian management that is addressed to him is not unfounded, indeed I would say it is very well founded, given the repercussions that the reform will have on the country system and its democratic system. When it comes to constitutional reforms, the impression is that the focus is on political alliances and not, as it should, on the content of the reforms themselves. Indeed, on the merits of reforms, for example on issues such as the elective Senate, parliamentary immunity, referendum, election of the Head of State, participatory democracy, many senators of the majority have expressed, who explicitly, who behind them, their disappointment. Many agree with the 5 Star Movement, which claims that these reforms are an attack on the Constitution and democracy. Others, who more or less, for some conjuncture - or perhaps it would be appropriate to say "postura" - are condescending to Prime Minister Renzi. As we read about the Daily Fact a few days ago, the package of constitutional reforms was born under a confused constellation. I dare say that package was thought of by twisted minds, and then translated by too unaware pens of the damage that would result. Of course it is that, without numbers in Parliament, no reform is possible, let alone constitutional reform. For weeks now we have seen that the majority are trying to establish contacts with the individual opposition forces and even with the individual Members in a scattered order, in order to verify the margins of negotiation with each one, in order to obtain the promise of a few more votes. Perhaps the majority have counted to see what will happen. Who knows? The truth is that this race to launch the reform is destined to conclude a goal that does not want to bring a real benefit to the citizens, but just wants to allow this government to put the flag on the abolition of the Senate, or rather on the transformation of the Senate into the Chamber of Autonomies, and on the electoral law, as if these two arguments were really the priority for the rebirth of our country. It seems to me that Renzi wants to have this reform approved at all costs, not because it is right and necessary, but only in order to be able to say: "You see, I am capable of reforming the country." The President-in-Office of the Council, however, had a bad fall, he did the mathematics without an innkeeper. He forgot that within the Senate, which wants to abolish, there are us, simple citizens who still believe in democracy and who will not allow this reform to pass. Of course, if this reform were to pass, we hope to go straight to the elections to be able to overthrow the table. Have you ever had the idea that one day in those government benches there might be those who are in opposition today? Have you wondered what the guillotine would mean to you? But perhaps not: there is so much consideration that you have of yourself that you have not even put this hypothesis for a moment. After all, you too have been infected by the disease that is born of arrogance and presumptuousness that is difficult to eradicate. On the other hand, we expected an extra ambition from those who have the responsibility of government today: to be able to reform well. We expected no one to put his hand on the perfect bicameralism, also because arriving at a Senate of 100 appointed as well as changing the electoral law is not the reform that the country needs, first of all because it will not allow the great savings that Renzi propaganda since he arrived to the government (I remember, without being elected by someone), but especially because it is not the reform that will solve the crisis of the state. I would like to remind you that the state crisis is a crisis of social growth, and not the opposite, but you may not have realized that you have aggravated it. In the institutional debate interwoven around these blessed reforms (which perhaps it would be better to define clashes between parties) the question that I think is missing is the following: not what Senate you want, but what Senate the country serves. In fact, the single reform must be thought not individually, but within an overall institutional project. It was enough to reason in mechanical terms, that is, you had to understand that, in order to choose a gear, you have to know first which engine you want to get and with what performance. And instead, you first thought about making a road stretch at 130 kilometers an hour, and then you realized that you had a bike. In short, the fear is that the game of bullets has prevailed over the project of innovation to be realized, forgetting that old methods hardly bring new results. To complicate the situation is not the summer heat, which certainly increases the mental confusion, but the fact that you take advantage of this heat so that citizens do not get a precise message, that the bill carried out by Matteo Renzi is too ugly to be true [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio]] This bill, focused on the existence of a single Chamber dominated by the government coalition, angers us of the opposition because, for example, we do not accept that the Senate of the Republic becomes a Senate no longer elected by the citizens, but composed of mayors and regional councillors who would work - pass me the term - part-time. What goes unruly is that Minister Boschi's bill, which came to the 1st Commission to say 'conform' or 'non-compliant', violates a basic principle of the rule of law, the one for which the laws make it the direct representatives of the people and not of the persons elected to other positions that the senators do when there are particular laws to be passed. I remember that Article 57 specifies what will be the characteristics of this Senate not directly elected: apart from the five presidential senators, the other ninety-five will be divided among the Regions, in proportion to the respective population, so that each one has at least two senators, of which one will have to be a mayor. But there is more. Perhaps the public is missing another affront from Renzi and his majority, namely the one consisting in raising signatures from 50,000 to 250,000 for proposals for popular initiative law and the increase to 800,000 signatures for the referendum. For the latter, the intervention of the Constitutional Court was envisaged in mid-collection, which should endorse the goodness of the referendum proposal in a short time. In any case, experts have forgotten the practical problems due to the timing that would arise, since by law the requests for referendums must be filed in each year only from 1 January to 30 September. Of course, we find it unfair, as well as constitutionally illegitimate, to propose to raise the minimum threshold of signatures necessary for the proposed law of popular initiative. In fact, limiting the popular legislative initiative means, again in this case, violating Article 1 of the Constitution, which proclaims that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. And it is precisely this principle that directs the concept we have on referendums as well as on popular initiative laws, even on participatory democracy. These three are the concepts that my parliamentary group, since its inception, has defended, has tried to guarantee also within these institutions, as it will continue to do during the debate on reforms in this House. It must be clear to everyone that democracy, as it has been thought, cannot be dismantled or raped by anyone, not even by those who claim the right to face great institutional battles or by those who are offended when they are told that they are managed in an authoritarian way. If our constituent Fathers have indicated particular instruments of direct democracy, which allow voters to be direct protagonists of the law, there must have been a reason, right? Or should we assume that a referendum, by which the electoral body is required to consent or disagree with a particular decision, or a bill of popular initiative should become a dead letter within the normative document most envied by the civil societies of the world? Speaking of democracy, I would like to make a note of what we call participatory. Participatory democracy is emerging when there are particularly strong orientations and mechanisms for participation. It cannot be conceived as a substitute for representative democracy, nor must the opposite be the case, but above all it cannot compete with other aspects of constitutional democracy, understood as the most important protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, in the pluralism of powers and in the superiority of the Constitution. After all, the 5 Star Movement is the fruit of the idea we have of participatory democracy. Certainly we do not believe that you can accept the project of participatory democracy that the 5 Star Movement proposes, but at least let the Constitution still protect certain prerogatives to citizens. To those, at least, who decided not to leave the country. Let the Italians make decisions for the good of the cities in which they live, for the future of their children, for the community in its entirety. Participatory democracy is the only way to give concrete answers to the needs of the community. Democratic coexistence is structured in the close dialogue between the moment of participation and that of decision-making responsibility. Surely it is not structured in a soft dictatorship that puts the opposition at the corner. We cannot call democracy the one that gives power to only two people, least of all to the President of the Council and the President of the Republic. It is from the dialogue between majority and opposition that the life and survival of every democracy depends. Participation and responsibility are not on different sides of the same river: participation is the responsibility of those who have the mandate and the duty to make decisions; and responsibility is the responsibility of those who participate far beyond the individual electoral moment. In Western democracies, however, the scissors tend to spread and place on separate planes what makes sense only in constant exchange. And so, those who participate do not decide, and those who decide do not participate. Democracy in the absence of participation is that confined to a political technique, as a balance of powers, as an instrument of consensus, as a method among others to decide who must decide. These days I wondered: but the voters, the activists, the representatives of the PD, who were rightly coming to the streets against the constitutional changes of the Berlusconi government and who mobilized in 2006 for the referendum (later won) to counter them, didn't the doubt arise that there is something wrong, deeply wrong, very dangerous and very little democratic in Renzi's "meno-democracy"? Something was missing in democratic participation, but what? In order to participate with others we must remember two essential things: that the human person is all the more self the more able he is to collaborate, and therefore is not assimilable to an individual already accomplished in himself before his relationship with others; and, above all, that one cannot participate without granting credit, without believing, in the existence of others. Giving credit to the existence of others translates from all points of view - social, economic, political, intellectual - into the practices and logics of participation and cooperation. In 1958, the Spanish philosopher, Maria Zambrano, in her book "Person and Democracy" wrote that democracy is the society in which it is not only allowed, but it is even required to be a person; she wrote again: "We will reach the democratic order only with the participation of all as people, which corresponds to human reality." Until the existence of the others is taken into account, instead of a participatory democracy there will be only accounts and numbers, perpetual scales of individual units stacked together and moved from here to there, strategies and maneuvers, calculations and intrigues. So I ask myself: with this reform, which in fact would like to hinder democratic processes, which would complicate existing practices, where do you think you are going? Prime Minister Renzi said that the process of structural reforms that has been initiated is producing stages at a fair pace. He said he was not afraid of the vote in the Chamber. He even sent a message that tastes like a psychological threat rather than a moral one, which I bring back for better knowledge: If there is someone in the Senate who wants to brake (...) it's because he may not even remember the recent past. At this point, President Renzi, I wonder: wasn't the accusation of authoritarian management of constitutional reforms that someone dared to address to them so unfounded? Do you want us to remind you of that less recent past? Unfortunately, for reasons of time, I cannot recall all the names of our constituent Fathers, to whom all our gratitude goes as citizens of the Italian Republic and that we of the 5 Star Movement will always thank. However, I would invite all those who wish to vote on today's bill to go to a Senate building, Palazzo Giustiniani, where the Italian Constitution was signed, for which women, men and children have lost their lives, in front of which we all can only bow our heads. Constitutional reforms should start not from the electoral slogans, because with slogans institutional balances are drifting; rather, they must allow the democratic institutions to strengthen in order to face the difficult challenges of our times, driven by an economic, political, social and moral crisis of extraordinary dimensions. It is a question of grasping the present and future potential of a Constitution that is and remains a living and vital norm. And, precisely on the most beautiful Constitution in the world, someone wrote that "for the full development of the human person, to whom our Constitution was to tend, it was necessary not only to affirm individual rights, not only to affirm social rights, but also to affirm the existence of the rights of the intermediate communities that go from the family to the international community." To those social and individual rights this Government must not put its hands on; rather, take a step back and apologize for having hindered parliamentary work for months with a confused reform, but above all anti-democratic. If you don't want to do it for you, at least do it for the future of your grandchildren. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u42	I inform the House that the deadline for tabling amendments is postponed until 8 p.m. tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u43	Madam President, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteurs because I believe they have done a great deal of work by trying to change a proposal which certainly had great flaws. Not that I do not have the proposal that came out of the Commission, but I want to renew both to President Finocchiaro and to Senator Calderoli not only the personal esteem, known, but also the esteem for what they bear: a political and institutional culture that I believe has been useful to the internal debate of the Commission and also to make significant changes. I do not know, Mr Boschi, what you think of the debate here today: on the other hand, it is only the amendment of the Constitution! Something you normally do every day [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and that we are preparing to do in the indifference of many, an indifference that should also have political reasons. You see Minister, when, feeling honored, I approached my parliamentary passage in the last parliamentary term, I thought it was first and foremost an opportunity for me to learn. I have to admit that I learned a lot from my colleagues, from the structures of the House, at the time, as I am learning today from the structures of the Senate and from many colleagues I have heard today intervene in this so important debate; a debate that everyone, with his sensibilities, is trying to bring along the line of a high reasoning. Minister, please listen to me because this is a passage that I think is important; I do not know if you will consider it as important, but I say to you, dear Minister, that if your Excellency does not come Renzi I will reform, regardless of the content, not vote. I do not vote for it - and I do not know what my group colleagues will do - because we have grown tired of the contempt with which President Renzi is dealing here. There's no game today, there's no World Cup. A few weeks ago he left us to watch the game, but I think that this House, these Aules, who saw talk about the Constitution (as she recalled just now and some other colleagues), the major figures of Italian politics in a difficult post-war period, could at least see the presence of the President of the Council, from the moment when we are not doing simple maintenance but we are touching our Constitution significantly. Since President Renzi made his flag, remember that the headlights are better lit because going to lighthouses turned off often you find the mines, the stripes nailed, and sometimes you find them also and especially where you do not expect it, that is near the fields friends, those who often do not welcome you if you consider them in such a wrong way as the Premier is doing. And I'm not saying this alone, since I happen to read quotes in an interesting interview of the President of the Democratic Party Group in which he remembers with refined intelligence that the President of the Council, before approaching our Chamber, should be well informed about what the feelings are regarding some passages in this reform. And with a certainly careful and equally intelligent way to moderate and modulate the future of reform in this House, he himself is proposing himself as a media form within the policy we are facing, for example in the area of electoral law. I believe that some passages, which I undoubtedly imagine have been examined after a speech by President Renzi, particularly on the strange combination between the renewal of the Constitution of the country and electoral laws, should have taken care of them directly by the President of the Council. I do not know if there is complete awareness of what is being done, but probably humility is now past, a baroque element that, we use to say, no longer serves. However, Minister Boschi, his indifference while speaking a representative of the parliamentary opposition, which however contributed through the best subject we could make available to talk about reforms in collaboration with President Finocchiaro, shows that your arrogance risks finding other than the mines and stripes nailed! In fact, you see, popular representation is not a joke, and outside people are beginning to be aware that we are not making a marginal pass. Let me say, apologizing to the friends of the Five Star Movement, that I can assure them that the populists are not theirs. It could be a moment of disappointment, but the most beaten populism unfortunately comes at this time from Palazzo Chigi where, remembering the continuous attacks carried out for five years by the press against the caste, every morning we look for the best surveys to understand where we can operate with respect to the sensibility and the sentimental cords of the Italians. And so they break up promises of all kinds. I also have concerns, because I have heard colleagues today talking about very important issues, such as the election system of the Senate and how some architectures will be. However, I stop with two reasonings. I do not like what has been done in the referendum, and I think that, when people are called, not in the square, but in participation, the referendary form cannot be limited in this way. On the contrary, I would be in favour of including the positive referendums, and not just the repeal referendums. I do not like another slap in the face of popular democracy, which consists in establishing that a popular law must collect 250,000 signatures in order to be presented. I insist: maybe someone didn't realize they were at Palazzo Chigi and not at Palazzo Venezia. But there may also be no overall perception of this fact. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I would still like to say to the rapporteurs, in friendship and without controversy, that I have seen here a case which, in my opinion, concerns the Rules of Procedure. I am talking about the mechanism, which I synthesize as a guillotine, which certainly does not concern the Constitution, because in the Constitution, with a combined arrangement of a certain type, it becomes dangerous. If it is true, as it is true, that certain legislative capacities will have them in the Chamber of Deputies, if the House of Deputies was talking about a highly majority system with the majority prize and if the Government, without risking political confidence, will have the 60-day deadline to have its law passed anyway, the prices of the politics market and the parliamentarians will be able to bring them down. We can also avoid bringing opposition to this House, because the combined text shows that the decree is no longer needed. In 60 days a law is made, the majority prize guarantees to have the numbers and, as is said in Rome, "s'ariccamo" (we see each other again). I am puzzled by such facts. I'd like to ask uncomfortable questions. And that is why Renzi does not come to the Chamber, apart from the fact that he cannot answer even his senators, which he keeps in check, it is obvious: "Sirs, let's go home." Minister, can you tell President Renzi that if he wants, we can vote tomorrow too? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Di Maggio.]] I don't know what you told your senators to scare them or blackmail them, but we can vote tomorrow, we have no worries. Sure, then there's the good part. There are the standard costs and other points that recall the famous cabin of Lorenzago, where something was done and where PD did everything to avoid passing those measures (which also included the reduction of parliamentarians)! But wasn't it more convenient not to fall in love with the American system of the 100 senators? But have you in the government seen how the parliaments of the states belonging to the United States are composed? How wide are their powers? The 100 senators are evidently within an architecture that has several counterweights, so much so that the Vice President of the United States holds the post of President of the Senate. Some situations cannot be reproduced. I conclude - because I do not want to bore the Minister - by referring to a political fact. I would like to ask my colleagues in the Democratic Party (why doesn't the government answer so much): what is the exchange you made? What is it, the certainty of survival or the certainty that, as you will do this thing, you will be able to elect a President of the Republic, because Napolitano has already given you the consent to do some bad things? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Or, after disassembling the Provinces, territories and representations, do you plan to reorganise everything with third-level representations at national level? Let me tell you something: knowing many of you, it seems strange to me that people who have such a profound political culture, who come from the former Communist Party or from popular history, are now bowing to the whims of a spoiled child. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-ILC Groups and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u44	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with two points. The first is that those who, like me, do not want the Senate to become a strange animal, neither elective nor non-elective, with contour functions that mask its substantial elimination, are not on this position to safeguard their own compensation, and I say this in particular to the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and M5S Groups and the Senators Buemi, Di Maggio and Lo Giudice.]] That was frankly not worthy of his role or of our country. The second consideration is that those who do not want the reform done in this way do not mean that they do not want reforms at all: many of us have proposed correctives to the functioning of the Republic's machine and have done so with respect due to the establishment and well-being of those who will come after us. Therefore, if - as I hope - this reform project does not come to fruition, I will not feel it on me as a responsibility but as a merit, because we can want reforms and we want real reforms, not one like this one, which, in our opinion - but we are not the only ones, because there are many professors and citizens who think like us - upsets and disfigures the institutional structure of our country. Our Republic comes from many attempts at reform, one of which was mentioned a moment ago by a colleague of the League: everyone had the stated aim of making democratic institutions more efficient, but many had to meet lower political objectives, namely to provide reasons and elements for a dialogue in the light of the sun between distant political forces on paper, or to generate distraction from more pressing problems or, still, bland political forces to induce them to give support to a political project of government, thus mixing government policy and institutional politics. Now, this issue of reform brings together many of the reasons I have mentioned: I do not remember, however, overall plans of reforms - if not what my colleagues in the League spoke about just now - at least openly adopted by substantial parts of Parliament, with such an important alterative role in the institutional balance of our country. In the past, the constitutional revision was approached by most Members - or at least so it appeared to me from the outside, when I read it in the newspapers as a citizen - with a sort of respect and with that healthy fear of error that suggests prudence and leads to mutual listening in the parliamentary debate. On the other hand, let's talk about the most sacred rules for a state, those that arise in the great moments of solution in the historical continuum, like a great war, even civil, that led first to defeat and then to the liberation of Italy and that found in the process constituent synthesis, the defeat of violence and amnesty, if not forgiveness, for that part that had transformed our country into a hell without freedom. Now, in this XVII Legislature, full of important novelties, not least the drastic renewal of parliamentary representations, with the numerically significant entry of a new political force, it seems that the system, taking advantage of the initial uncertainty deriving from the inexperience of that force, instead closed itself curly, putting together its most conservative instances to protect itself. This trend, mentioned in a customary way, although with some improper behavioural innovation in the attitude of the institutions in the story that led and then accompanied the Letta Government (I think of the constitution of the Committee of Wise Men by the Presidency of the Republic or the presentation by the Government of a constitutional bill also preceded by the institution of the Ministry of Constitutional Reforms, another novelty), is manifesting itself in a completely new way with the Renzi Government. I am referring, for example, to the display of informal contacts, such as the Nazarene Pact, between President-Secretary Renzi and Dr Berlusconi, a pact often mentioned not only in the media but also in the Commission which, with a provocation, Mr De Petris asked for to be deposited in the proceedings because of its institutional importance. As I am referring to the replacement in the Commission of my colleague Mario Mauro and my colleague Mineo, whom I believe to be in accordance with the wishes of the Government and its head in particular. I am also referring to the attitude of constant psychological pressure to induce colleagues in the majority to vote for the reform even when they, on several occasions and with plenty of arguments in support, have stated that they find in it such criticalities as to consider it "unvotable." I am still referring to the almost predatory speed with which this debate has been carried out by the Government, speed and unwillingness to open confrontation that neither the experience nor the self-denial of the two rapporteurs has been able to influence significantly. All this for the methodical. It is certainly not better for the content of the reform. It nourishes itself in a concentration of power never seen in Italy after the war, Italy that, although with so many contradictions, in the first 20-25 years of its history has been able to rise from the war and become one of the most developed nations in the world. What gave rise to the problem of governability, from Italy of the sick parties to that of the ad personam parties, was the demise of the quality of political staff and this was born from the transformation of political representatives first into class and then into caste. And this transformation, let us be clear, has arisen from the demise of the democratic quality of the functioning of political parties. Today, the government exposes to the people what it believes are the obstacles to the exit from the political crisis: bicameralism, smaller parties, regional autonomy. And so, with the reduction to the minimum terms of these elements, it promises speed of decision. The feeling is that to treat fever you choose to lower your immune defenses. But how, from all over Italy is raised the demand for greater participation in political life and the Government chooses to reduce the spaces of participation? To have the Senate elected by the regional councils? To turn it into a hybrid between the State Conference - Regions and a post-work for regional politicians and mayors? To make access to the repealing referendum more complicated? To increase the number of signatures to submit a bill of popular initiative from 50,000 to 250,000? We also say that with the amendments to the regulations we will be able to regulate the actual debate in Parliament. Colleagues, we all know very well that this Parliament could have been made effective and efficient with the amendments to the regulations that cannot be done because all the reforms can be done except those that are effective and that make this Parliament effective. The most grotesque thing is that all this is promoted by a man who had become a popular champion of the fight against caste, who has arrived in the place he occupies starting from the primaries and asking for the support of all citizens. Now that you've arrived in the government, lock the doors behind you. Let me make a joke: it looks like the re-edition of the Orwell farm of animals. We at Italia Work in Corso presented a bill, a contribution to overcoming the perfect bicameralism, to try to make more efficient the system of legislative production and the control system of the Government. That's not what you wanted. The government does not seek this with this reform, nor do they tolerate proposals different from the solution reached at the Nazarene with Dr Berlusconi. Senator Finocchiaro, President of the Commission, said this earlier: the draft law of the Government has been corrected, but the constitutive presuppositions have remained those, nor on those it has been possible or wanted to negotiate. The Senate was not to be elective; the Senate was not to be relevant in the new institutional architecture. If this House were to dismiss the bill without any changes that would make it look as if it were upset that they are reporting that balance of powers that is absolutely essential for us, we, together with every conscious citizen, inside and outside this Parliament, will do everything we can to ensure that this plan does not take place. Let it be clear: the reasons for the failure of this reform season will be due to the arrogance and unwillingness of this government's dialogue. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u46	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u47	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Renzi (president who is not present), press and television stations accuse the 5 Star Movement of blocking the country through the practice of obstructionism and then I say clearly: I am proud to belong to a movement of citizens who instead want to save the country. We want the institutions to function, the Constitution to be applied as much as possible, of course, even improved, as has been explained previously, and rewritten but not of sound plant by a Parliament of elected with an unconstitutional electoral law and, even more serious, through a secret agreement between a former mayor and a delinquent. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution, is solemnly affirmed in Article 1 of our Constitution. Our constituent Fathers, with this and with other provisions contained in our Constitutional Charter, wanted to reaffirm a basic and fundamental concept of every healthy democracy, further recalling this belief in Article 50 of the Fundamental Charter, allowing all citizens to be able to petition the Chambers in order to ask for legislative measures or to present common needs. Constitutional democracy does not end with the vote; it is something much more complex and requires the constant exercise of popular sovereignty. The constituent Fathers had understood this, guaranteeing the constant access of citizens to the political life of the country by means of important instruments of direct democracy, such as referendums and proposals of popular initiative law. Over the last twenty years, on many occasions, referendums have been invalidated by the failure to reach a quorum and many proposals for popular initiative law, such as the one we filed in 2007 and called "Clean Parliament," have remained in the institutional drawers without ever being discussed. Ensuring equal parliamentary dignity to the laws of popular initiative is one of the cornerstones of bill No 702, at my first signature, with the title 'Norman zero initiative and more democracy', which you have fully examined during the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Taking inspiration from this bill, which, among other things, fully recovers a bill of popular initiative, I have tabled an amendment with the aim of binding Parliament to respond to and provide a response to requests from civil society, to those requests that take only to start from the needs, needs and difficulties with which Italians are in close daily contact and all too often disowned by those who are in these and other Palaces. Mr Renzi, appointed and not chosen by the citizens, with the text delivered to the House you have decided to do the opposite: to limit even more the areas of popular participation, increasing from 50,000 to 250,000 the number of signatures to be collected in order to be able to deposit a proposal of popular law. Sant'Agostino said that: "Humanum fuit errare, diabolicum est per animositatem in error manere," that is to say that falling into error was man's own fault, but it is devilish to insist in error by pride. It must be said that in these five months of government we have noticed that one thing you are not lacking: pride. It is with pride that you have also raised the number of signatures necessary for the submission of referendum questions by citizens from 500 000 to 800 000, with a preventive opinion on eligibility given by the Constitutional Court after the first 400,000 signatures and with a unclear rule for which questions must have an autonomous regulatory value. Mr Renzi, appointed and not chosen by the citizens, a reform of the second part of the Constitution based on monocameralism and the strengthening of the powers of the Executive, therefore reflected by the President of the Council, cannot fail to define itself authoritarian, just as the new majorities required for the election of the President of the Republic and the constitutional judges cannot fail to arouse concern. For the President of the Republic we had 1,008 great voters and the absolute majority to be reached was 505 votes; the new Parliament in common sitting would count 725 and the absolute majority would be 363 votes; with Italicum the coalition of majority would already have 354 seats in the Chamber and, with the addition of 10 senators out of 95, elect the President of the Republic alone. As with the constitutional judges: to the five nominations, the government can add five more with the help of very few senators, probably only four or five will be enough. Do we have any idea, colleagues who are absent, what it means to have 10 judges - so expressed - out of 15? The two main institutions of guarantee and control of the country, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, are delivered to Palazzo Chigi. Mr Renzi, appointed and unchosen, what we are discussing here is a reform that is ultimately aimed at saving and greater governability and, together with Italicum, wants to achieve many other objectives: to make politics an even more closed space, as all the colleagues who preceded me have explained well. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] , by further reducing the already limited margins of control of political activity by citizens and by saving those who have been convicted. What else can a House elected without preference and a Senate serve that more than having a legitimacy, so-called second degree, is clearly useless? Other doubts about the text make you think, such as the amendment you would like to make to Article 70 of our Charter. In the new paragraph 3 of the article it is expected to insert that every bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies is immediately transmitted to the Senate of the Autonomous States which, within ten days, at the request of a third of its members, can arrange to examine it. The reflection on the word 'dispose', I have already put it in my speech in the Commission and it seems to suggest that a simple request by the minority is not enough to be able to examine a measure, but instead an ad hoc resolution by the House is needed so that this can happen. This is a lexical question that should have been resolved - and it does not appear to have been done in this text - because it could have a significant impact on the scope of the Senate's action; the power of minorities to have the Senate pronounced on the bill produced by the majority of the other House, in case the request is sufficient, could theoretically be very large, in the case of deliberation, instead, it could be virtually null. The 5 Star Movement has tried from the beginning to improve this text, presenting 220 amendments to the Constitutional Affairs Committee, including amendments and sub-amendments, as many as 14 coming from the bill "Norman zero Initiative and More Democracy," which incorporates a bill of popular initiative, but you have all rejected them. My proposals, which I have also tabled here in this House, aim to extend the referenda rights with the introduction of the confirmation referendum, which would allow citizens, if they consider it necessary, to express their views on the effective entry into force of the laws adopted by Parliament, as well as on the proposed referendum, which would allow Italians to express themselves on proposals for the law of a promoting committee and to oblige the legislator to implement the proposal within a period of time. You have accused us of obstructionism, but the reform that you are proposing today is actually a long-standing plan: it follows in everything and throughout the project of the Masonic Loggia Propaganda 2 that, first Prodi and then Berlusconi, tried in vain to bring to completion. It is an ancient design that aims to weaken, until total insignificance, every intervention space for citizens and to eliminate popular sovereignty, a design put on the field by those who led Italy to the eurozone for the sole benefit of Germany [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] and through an ordinary law without the regular referendum, moreover provided for by the Cossiga bill, which you have ignored! A design that closes the circle of twenty years of bad politics: four lustres that have produced only the sale and privatization of our excellences, the mass transfer of our young people abroad, the doubling of poverty, pollution and environmental damage tripled, as even reported by the Episcopal Conference. This unjust, vicious and murderous maneuver you want to complete it in absolute tranquility by throwing out definitively the citizens, already bent by depression. You want to reset the perfect bicameralism, provided by a Constitution born from the blood of millions of Italians and confirmed in 2006 by citizens as a valuable public good; a bicameralism whose only flaws are to be traced back to your games of power and to your inability. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For years you have exchanged roles between Parliament and Government, and we have been voting here for a year and a half for the government's proposed concrete minestrone. I ask you, who are here as the first legislature, like us in the 5 Star Movement: can you deny what you do not even know, what you have not even experienced? Yet you are well aware of the costs of politics: Quirinale, General Managers, Board of Directors of Participated Entities and Companies, millionaire trusts to outsourced companies for unnecessary services [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] in addition to all the corruption in the TAV, in the MOSE, in the Expo, in all the contracts that have prevented the realization of the great public works for the citizens and - alas - even in the post-seismal reconstructions, without the necessary control of the respect of the laws. It's not a cost cut. Rivers of money that come out of the state coffers every day where the savings that this reform generates is a drop in an ocean. The Senate, transformed into the Chamber of Regions, will continue to have important constitutional powers, such as that of electing the President of the Republic and members of the CSM, but will no longer be elected by citizens: it will be composed of friends of friends and regional politicians investigated and condemned as those of Abruzzo [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which will also enjoy, once appointed, the immunity that you want to guarantee. You are false and hypocrites, because you exploit the economic crisis for your dirty palace games. Do citizens elect someone to perform acts on the territory of a city or a region, on the basis of a local programme, and do we have to find it again to make constitutional laws, on international treaties, to designate the members of the MSC and to elect the Head of State? But do you realize that shame is what you call reform? This is not a constitutional reform, but a pro-institutional reform! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] There is pride also in feeling empowered to break democracy in our country with 40% of the votes, when 47% of the Italian electorate preferred to stay at home. You are ridiculous and arrogant, and you do not even notice that there is only 23 percent of a whole population on your side, while the remaining 77 percent is deeply outraged and disgusted by all, and will soon make his voice heard. I have made my life available, I have given up my family to be on these benches, like many of my colleagues, to proudly defend our past and our history, and I am inside this building... [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u48	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u49	Senator Blundo, I would like to refer you to the Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which should lead you to use a slightly more own language. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] BLUNDO (M5S). It's consonant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Complete your surgery, Senator Blondo. SANTANGELO (M5S). [[He stands up.]] Let her talk. We're four cats in this House. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have a seat, Senator Santangelo. BLUNDO (M5S). Can I finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish your speech. BLUNDO (M5S). I said that I made my life available to defend our past and our history with pride and I am in this building to make the exact opposite of what you are proposing, in respect of the citizens who signed the proposal " quorum zero" and in the name of the constituent Fathers. I am here and, like all honest citizens, I want the transformation of the State from our own to our own home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You have the strength of the lie, which becomes a bully when it is unveiled, as happened with the leghold trap introduced to the House to protect the banks. Mr President, appointed and not chosen by the citizens, you have made it seem that you are open to contributions and improvements, but you have remained in your positions. The reform that you will vote on, taking full responsibility before the country and mortgageing even more the future of our children and your grandchildren, is your reform, that does not want forms of direct and participatory democracy, does not want forms of control of citizens over politics, does not want the only care that really serves this dying country: return it to its legitimate owners, the citizens! You have struck the citizens in every possible and imaginable way, without restraint and without respect in your political choices, taking away the dignity of human beings as well. This is the last shot in the heart. There is only one word: "Shame" if you still know its meaning. We want a State at the service of the public good, of the common good equally distributed; a State acting according to the principles of effectiveness, efficiency and pragmatism. We have nothing to claim or hide, we do not care about the vile money and we do not even have cravings of power and armchairs, like the numerous assigned by Renzi in just 100 days. He even passed Monti and Letta in the number. Well, if you succeed in implementing this constitutional abomination and abolishing the Senate, I will return with dignity and pride to teach your children, as I did until last year; where will you go? And above all, what matters most, what will happen to this wonderful country of ours, which had nothing to envy to other countries and was envied by everyone? For all these reasons, I am and will be with immense pride against this abomination! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u51	Madam President, let the previous speaker finish the applause. Indeed, some of the ideas and passages of your speech are acceptable, especially when you call all of us to the importance of the votes we are about to take in the next few days and to the delicacy of the subject we are dealing with. Talking about constitutional reforms, in fact, means touching one of the backbones of the country and touching on concepts often very important with regard to democracy and therefore the daily life of our citizens. I began to deal with reforms in Parliament during the parliamentary term from 1996 to 2001. The first intervention I made in 1996 in the House spoke of reforms and recalled the need to go in the direction of implementing a federalist reform in our country, recalling also the importance of certain concepts such as those of Rousseau on small patriae, concepts of 1700, but that gave that freedom of autonomy and self-management to the many realities and communities that are present in Europe and that today rightly do not recognize themselves within the European Union, a monster that was built only on the basis of substantially economic values. I say this because talking about Europe and talking about reforms that concern our Constitution basically means talking about the same thing, it means talking about the application of the principle of subsidiarity, it means talking about so many values that are shared by the many peoples who live within the countries of the European Union and who should find their recognition in their respective Constitutional Charters. I was saying that we tried in the legislature from 1996 to 2001: you will all remember the experience of D'Alema's bicameral, which is aborted without even arriving in the Chamber, and then end that legislature with the approval of a messy and confused change, that of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, approved with only four rejection votes by a majority that was to chase the League. That majority, faced with the expectations, needs and desire for freedom and self-government of the North and the communities of Padana, who wanted to be able to freely dispose not only of the tax revenues, but also of the decision-making capacity to affect the daily problems of their citizens, with the then President of the Council Amato, made a constitutional change that ultimately did not turn out to be a correct change and that caused so much damage, so much so that from 2001 to 2006, first with Minister Bossi and then with Minister Calderoli, began a further path of constitutional changes that led to the definitive approval (with the two readings of Chamber and Senate) of a text that, however, was rejected by the citizens with the referendum confirmation. However, that text was rejected not so much because of its content, but because it was sold badly on a political side that had the interest in discrediting the opponent. The content of that proposal, which then the citizens did not accept (the citizens of the North understood it, while the citizens of the South understood a different message, which went against them, and that was not true), already spoke of the end of the perfect bicameralism, already spoke of the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, fixed the problem of competing competences and went in the direction of involving the territories and regions within the election of certain fundamental institutions, such as the Constitutional Court. That reform - alas - was not approved by the citizens, but if it had passed that referendum, since 2008, with the elections after the entry into force of that constitutional reform, we would have had a Parliament with a single Chamber that gave confidence to the Government: a Parliament that probably would have had a Berlusconi Government from 2008 to 2013 and a Bersani Government (not a Renzi Government) because whoever won the House anyway won everything, from 2013 on an indefinite date. That reform - I repeat - has been rejected, because there was a short-sighted policy that is right to remember at this time too. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we are facing another possibility: we are in 2014 and we are starting a path that takes up again the constitutional reform, thanks also to the contribution of President Finocchiaro and rapporteur Calderoli, who has certainly treasured and knows how important it is to re-produce certain issues, because precisely the citizens want in particular that constitutional reforms foresee this kind of change. We are - I repeat - facing a very difficult path, different from the longer one of 2001-2006, and certainly different - at least I hope - from the messy one of the end of the thirteenth legislature that should lead us to touch on the same issues and should convince all of us of the need to put an end to the perfect bicameralism. We have remained the last Western democracy in which there is perfect bicameralism. There are countries in the rest of the world where bicameralism exists, but not perfect bicameralism. There are countries where even, within federal or federal states, there are parliaments that have almost equal powers in the Central Parliament, but there is no country that, like ours, provides for a system that is now obsolete and outdated and that no longer meets the needs of functionality of the country and the need to give timely answers to the problems of citizens. But a monocameral system cannot be a dictatorship. It cannot override the right to apply a proper democratic formula and, therefore, it will be useful to counterbalance this choice with an electoral law that will certainly have to take into account the new delicate institutional structure that will be created. Of course the problems we are talking about are important, but let me remind you that, alongside institutional reform, there are important problems that all citizens live on a daily basis, such as work, employment, taxes and illegal immigration: on these I see that the Government continues not to give answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Perhaps he can give answers in terms of constitutional reforms because he has some good advisors close to him who indicate the way and the solutions that must be pursued. I believe that all these reforms that we should evaluate and vote on in the next few days should be carefully analysed. I am not in favour of an excessive haste in the analysis of important measures such as this, but above all I believe that the Government, or rather the majority that wants to reform the Constitution, will have to win vote after vote in this House the confidence of the majority of this House in order to be able to say that that reform is a necessary reform of the Constitution. He will have to make it paragraph after paragraph, word by word, because there are still many open issues, starting with the number of signatures for the repealing referendums, to which we have referred several times, the number of Members and many issues that also concern the Constitutional Court and its composition, or the competences of the Regions, which cannot weigh in the background. I have heard several times, even a moment ago, that our Constitution is the most beautiful in the world. I frankly know some of them that are just as beautiful, but our Constitution has a peculiarity: the first part of the Italian Constitution enunciates the fundamental principles and the reference values that are inescapable and certainly sacred, but they have only one defect, that is, they are poorly implemented and are disassembled, so much so that the Senate, together with the Chamber, has approved laws that often forgot its content. My hope is that in the amendment of the second part of the Constitution, or rather in the part relating to the reform of the constitutional bodies, first of all in Parliament and with particular regard to the instrument of the referendum, a different system will be used, which leads everyone to say that what matters is not so much the image, it is not so much the choice with effect that must be made and therefore the word (which can be tweeted to please the citizens giving the idea that everything is changing and then actually not changing anything), but that we must find solutions that allow us to give practical, pragmatic and concrete answers in terms of operating methods and in terms of the effectiveness of our work and therefore of effectiveness towards the citizens. An old 18th - century Irish philosopher said quite simply that useful institutions are those that do not complicate the lives of citizens. Let us at least do this within these reforms: let us make the necessary reforms and do them seriously. If they are made in a serious way, the League will be there; but to do them in a serious way means to respect the needs of all the components that are present in our country at territorial and political level. If we do this, if we can think seriously, without rushing too much, taking the right time but certainly looking at word for word what can be the practical consequences of the application of the constitutional norms that we will go to change (so what will happen in this country with the new norms), then we will surely be directed on a method of profitable work, otherwise we will have to return to raise the flag linked to identity, to the fact that there are peoples willing to remain within certain territorial boundaries only if they are respected in their individual identities. We believe that going in the direction of giving strength to this country with new instruments, with the possibility of seeing everyone respected is the road that must be pursued. However, we do not think, unless there is this mutual respect, this solution, that we can remain silent and accept in silence in the name of the necessary reforms to make any solution that this Government proposes to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u52	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u53	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what is before this House today is a draft law on reforms not only constitutional but institutional; it is a broader vision of changing the structure of Parliament, the process of formation of laws and a policy of containment and revision of public expenditure. In the game of reforms, the action of the Government and the Democratic Party in recent months has wanted to play as a protagonist, with the aim of an institutional change, a real renewal in tradition, which looks not only at Europe, but above all at the heart of the country. This is not the place to call on the many study committees that have intervened to reason on constitutional reforms (from the Commission Bozzi of 1983 to the Committee Speroni of 1994, to the working group, first, and to the Committee on Reforms, then, last wanted by President Napolitano), it is enough to emphasize that all the study committees so far established have reached, albeit with different solutions, the shared need to overcome the perfect bicameralism. In 1982 President Giovanni Spadolini, drawing up his decalogue for institutional reforms, identified the problem of complete and incisive constitutional reforms capable of neutralizing the causes of dysfunctions that too often have paralysed the efforts of governments. This quote only serves to rip the veil that so many spread to confuse the crisis of representation with the functioning of the State; on the one hand, the mechanisms are not up to modernity and, on the other, the models of representation no longer know how to collectively interpret personal needs. Today, thirty years later, the weight of this problem has been raised by the Renzi Government, which has undertaken to promote a constitutional bill that overcomes the perfect bicameralism, in order to speed up the iter legislation and to contain the costs of public spending with the abolition of organs and bodies now exceeded, such as CNEL. The biggest challenge of the new Senate will then be to integrate the autonomy, which reproduces in the Upper House the division of various levels of territorial authorities, as in Article 114 of the Constitution. If the House of Deputies is to represent our form of government, the Senate of the Autonomous States will have to reflect the form of state. A necessary pluralism of voices, which was already sought in the Constitutional Assembly in the writing of Article 57, in the definition of that Senate on a regional basis. A Senate of the Autonomies, therefore, able to dialogue downwards with the territorial authorities, but also upwards with the European institutions, where we are protagonists today with the Italian Presidency of the European Semester and since the past European elections on 25 May. We are, therefore, at the stage in which the approach to the first stage of constitutional reforms is outlined and the thought necessarily runs to the words spoken by President Giorgio Napolitano in his speech to the Chambers on the occasion of his installation, more than a year ago. The re-election of the President of the Republic finds no precedent in history, but it was necessary to overcome the difficult state of impasse, certainly created by the electoral result but also by an attitude defined as irresponsible and closing by factions who did not intend to create the premises for the formation of a government. Hard words, his clear, clear words and a reference to the responsibility of all of us parliamentarians and to those words must always be reported the experiences of successive government for the exceptionality of the commitments to be faced. In short, in those words is the reason why the Government presented a constitutional bill against 53 draft laws filed in the Senate, because - and we must state this clearly - these reforms have to do with the lives of citizens and businesses. If there are people in this House who think that reforms are, of course, to be done, but citizens are interested in real things, then they reflect on the role of politics. Politics must give concrete and punctual answers, but in a blocked country such as Italy today, politics must find the strength to identify and correct those elements that make the times of solutions disproportionate to the times of problems. The proof that Italy is a blocked country is, for example, that the drive to reform so many ancient worlds that the Renzi Government is attacking, collects both approval and resistance, but fails to generate movements of self-form. Everyone is waiting to see if politics (and Renzi today is putting us face to face for everyone, whether you want it or not) will live up to the challenges that concern itself. The great push that Renzi Government has given to the reform process remains an objective element, a merit and a proof of the conviction and courage that is going down to restore authority to politics. I therefore believe that the moment of reform before us can be a good time - it has been said - for renewal in tradition, a real revolution in the sign of constitutional maintenance rather than a rewriting of the Charter. Ultimately, a modernisation of our democracy. Precise, targeted actions to ensure speed, effectiveness and efficiency of parliamentary action. Reforms must serve to improve the institutional structure, first and foremost to overcome the degenerative practices of recent years, from omnibus decrees-laws, to the continuous position of the question of trust by the Government (often on texts that have been merged with maximed amendments), to the abuse of decree-laws even when the requirements of necessity and urgency do not exist. Let me now propose some political assessments in view of the extent of the passage that is about to take place in this House. If we have listened several times to calls to separate the contingency of the political context from the content of the reform, it is useless to hide as much as this contingency weighs on the assessments and attitudes that have been measured in recent weeks. Despite this, the meeting point in the confrontation between government, political forces and Parliament - and here I would like to thank the rapporteurs, President Finocchiaro and President Calderoli for their work in the Commission - is to be welcomed for its value, both in terms of content and in terms of synthesis. Keeping Parliament at the centre, without touching the parts related to the Government, is a qualifying point of the reform that does not substantially change the balance between powers and guarantees, highlighting primarily the desire to give greater efficiency to the state. It is disproportionate and instrumental to evoke authoritarian drifts, when a House is sufficient to express confidence in the Government, to legislate and to vote on the state budget. But a Chamber is not enough to make the institutional and territorial structure of the Italian State responsible for a process of harmonization of all national and regional laws that must generate, in combination, opportunities and safeguards. In other words, today it is not a question of discussing the role of the reformed Senate in relation to today's Senate within which we hold this decisive discussion, but of discussing how, starting from a substantial mono-cameralism, a useful presence of a Chamber of Self-government is structured, whose presence seems obvious because it is adapted to the configuration of the State outlined by the current Constitution. This is what we are doing today, knowing that immediately afterwards we will also have the responsibility to deal with the rules by which the House is elected, since we do not act in conditions of legislative vacuum, that is without an electoral law in force, but equally conscious of the fact that the electoral law must bring out from the ballot box, that is to legitimize, a political majority in the House able to express a government. Moreover, this happens regularly, for Regions and Municipalities without there being any or any assessments today concerned about the democratic depth of these levels. Proof of this is the passion and participation that go through all parties and groups that face municipal and regional elections. On the contrary, the stability achieved by local institutions such as Regions and Municipalities will be counted precisely in the reformed Senate which will draw great incisiveness from this second-degree nature. A final consideration must be made, then: too many attempts have been in vain, too many work of Study Committees remained in the dusty shelves of Italian constitutional science, too many reforms missed, too many reforms approved but never implemented, just think only of Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001 which has provided - still to be missed - for the participation of representatives of the Regions, autonomous provinces and local authorities in the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs. The hope, then, is that this reform will finally achieve that multi-level constitutionalism, which operates on a new framework of Title V of Part II, a redefinition of the legislative procedure also because of the European legislation that Parliament transposes every year; and that on the day of this week (or next week) in which we will approve it, can be considered the date of a first goal, the date of a new beginning and no more than the umpteenth missed opportunity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u54	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u55	Madam President, what is being discussed today is not only wrong on the substance but also, and above all, in the method used so far, characterised by lack of clarity and haste. Such a reform had to be designed and implemented taking into account the institutional arrangements as a whole. Even in advanced democracies it happened that the direction of the executive and the legislative do not always coincide. Since these two powers sometimes, or often, in our country do not coincide, Mr. Renzi has decided to take out one, to his taste and pleasure, so that no one can ever hinder him again. It was not enough for Renzi to enslave the Houses by means of decrees and trust, harnessing their legislative function. Now, with only one branch of Parliament, it would get a large margin of blackmail. We already see it today, where ministers are his personal team and the majority claim to make reforms built on unconstitutional rules. Even today, our Parliament, through the blackmail of the question of trust, is enslaved to the government's executive. Imagine what the next Members of Parliament will become with only one House! Parliament's task is also to limit the holder of sovereignty and to provide guarantees for the protection of citizens' freedoms. But what guarantees and freedoms we are talking about, with a non-elective Senate and with the regime proposed by King Renzi, last among the premier not elected by the citizens but only by his circle under blackmail. A concentration of powers at the head of a single party and its leader is unthinkable in a liberal democracy. This is what the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano himself said in his speech for the sixtieth anniversary of the Constitution, when he distanced himself from semi presidentialism to French. But today he seems to have changed his mind in front of the nice Florentine President. The traditional model of the Italian Government should be the opposite of what it is today. The ease with which the maximum amendments are presented, in spite of the deadlines, is an Italian anomaly. What is democratic, when there is no possibility of intervening on a text presented by the Government, since, with the question of trust, no amendments, sub-amendments or additional articles can be tabled and separate voting is prohibited on this subject? For what reason should we participate today and give our consent to abduct, restricting it even more, the minimum of democratic space that still remains? Citizens have the right to take part in decisions on the processes that affect them, while for some time this political class has only been making opaque and private decisions. A parliament, in order to be democratic, should take into account the interests and values prevailing in society, not make decisions on the basis of those who show muscle and strength in order to achieve what it wants, that is, govern and legislate without interference; of those who first take it out on the offices of the Senate, because they say that his decree of the 80 euros is not covered, then with the senators who do not agree with his plan of reform: for him they are all attached to armchairs and money, this is the way the Premier acts. You are violating the Constitution and taking away any possibility of direct participation of citizens. You have raised to 800,000 the number of signatures to be collected in the event of a referendum: in short, you want a dictatorship, yet you have often accused us of having a leader who could be compared to Mussolini. I appeal to you - but not to your conscience, because it is difficult to find a trace of it in this House - so that, at least out of a sense of dignity, today you will rebel against your leader and leader: do it for the Italians, to protect the rule of law and democracy! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Russo's comments.]] Where does it end, if it still exists in this world, with the pride of Parliament, of yours and of our being parliamentarians of the Republic and of the Republic? What did he promise you? The five years of the legislature or the amendment of the law relating to the pension of parliamentarians in the event of the early dissolution of the Senate? Tell us! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Russo's comments.]] What is the point of a Senate with mere consultative powers, of direction and little more, which does not solve the question of costs, so flagdierato by the Premier? If what will come out of this reform is an inefficient constitutional body, the Premier's thesis is that of saving: but wasn't it better to reduce the economic compensation and the number of parliamentarians and leave the bicameralism? We all remember the miraculous figure of one billion euros that President Renzi initially did not stop waving at his every TV appearance: then, however, after a few days he stopped giving the numbers and his efficient communicative staff moved all the motivation of the reform on the recovery of Parliament's efficiency. [[Senator Russo's comments.]] Have you wondered why this change of communication route? Is it because the Council President's advisers finally got their hands on a bullet and realized that the savings from this reform are little more than small savings, compared to the savings that he has pointed out? So let us do some accounts: figures in hand and based on data from the 2012 accounts, the last one approved by all of you in this House, the savings that will be obtained from the abolition of senators' allowances amounts to EUR 43 million. In fact, the expenses of the buildings, services, staff, vitality, pensions, i.e. the widely prevailing voices of the cost of this body, would remain standing. To these should be added the cost of travel and stay in Rome of the new senators. Or perhaps King Renzi is so naive as to think that mayors and governors should come at their own expense with sandwiches and sleeping bags and come to Rome on foot? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Or worse: he thinks that naive are the citizens and wants to download the costs of the transfer of the new senators to the agencies of origin, replicating the game of the three cards to you so dear, that we have already seen many times done in this majority. As if the citizens didn't realize that to pay those costs would ultimately always be the State and therefore ourselves! And was it worth amputating our Constitution in this way, concentrating more power in the hands of the Government and depriving citizens of the possibility of choosing their representatives directly, in order to obtain, in the end, a savings of 43 million euros? By removing the end-of-term allowance, the supplementary health care of senators and bringing the gross allowance to 5,000 euros to all parliamentarians would have a savings of about 60 million euros. Without considering that if every parliamentarians returned the non-expensive part of the lump sums and not taxed - let's say it still loud! - Who knows what other savings we'd have! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Besides, do we want to talk about the vitals? This is what we would like to ask today of this same left, which in 2001 had the unfortunate courage to overturn Title V of Part II of the Constitution in an attempt to give the State a federalist imprint, instead giving the Regions more autonomy and competences and party power. From this wretched autonomy, especially financial, that has allowed to waste freely the money of the citizens, used for expenses in weddings, villas, travels and various vacations, it was then had to resort to raise the taxes to citizens impoverishing them and lifting the bread from their mouths to shut the holes of the budgets of the Regions. This is what the left has done by reforming Title V: raising a herd of regional Councillors who have plundered the electoral funds, made available to them by the Regional Councils. What's Renzi doing today? He even wants to give them a double assignment! Phenomenal, a genius, man! Moreover, there is a gigantic question in this case of reform, which concerns the right to change the Constitution or, better said, the right to change it on the part of this Parliament. The question, which might appear as rhetorical or even provocative, is actually not for two reasons, that the Constitutional Court's judgment No 1 of 2014 brought together in a single envelope: firstly, the fragile legitimacy of the current elected parliamentarians through the majority prize; secondly, the method of choosing the current parliamentarians, namely that they (and we equally) were appointed by political parties through blocked lists and not chosen by citizens through preferences. Both these points have been sanctioned by the Consulta that, precisely, with the judgment n. 1 of 2014 has sanctioned the manifestation in-co-sti-tu-zio-na-li-tà - I spell it out to you, at least you understand it! - of the electoral law known to all as Porcellum. Common sense would suggest going to elections first with a constitutional electoral law and not with Italicum, born from yet another secret agreement between Renzi and Berlusconi. Then, with a new Parliament, finally legitimized, we could put our hands on constitutional reforms. Another example of constitutional reform that has been adopted quickly and without a real parliamentary debate is the inclusion in the Constitution of the rule on budgetary balance, which we so much regret today and do not want anymore. That's nice. Let's do it and then we'll undo it. Another issue that arises from the question of the substance of the content of the constitutional reform is the subject of the initiative to amend the Constitution. As everyone knows, this input is traditionally the responsibility of Parliament in our system, and this is because of the obvious and obvious reason to prevent a momentary political majority, hopefully, from intervening on the rules that affect all the players in the system. The fact that not only the initiative has been taken by the government, but that the margin of discussion has been greatly reduced with a text that has been largely armored by extra-parliamentary agreements and secrets signed at the Nazarene with a prejudice, the fact that the President of the Council has repeatedly threatened the spectre of early elections to overcome the internal reluctances also to his party and that he has even come to expel members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, rejecting to express ideas other than his own, says a lot about the imbalance of the powers already existing in favour of the Executive and the harm of Parliament. In the reform that the government wants to approve there is still a clear imbalance in favour of further strengthening the government. If there is a power today that must be limited, it is that of the Government. As President Grasso recently reminded us, Parliament was and is the place of representation, the place where the country finds its synthesis, the place - to use the words of Giacomo Matteotti, of which this year is the 90th anniversary of the murder - where the Italian plebs must cease to be plebs and become conscious, mature and referee people of their own destiny. This must be the Parliament for all the citizens of the Republic, not a bunch of insulting Premier cards by those appointed and in its full power. It is necessary, on behalf of the sovereign people, for Parliament to regain the dignity that must be conferred upon it and for all of you parties, no one excluded, to have lost it by dragging it into the mud of your actions over the last thirty years. Now, with your reform, President Renzi is planning to bury him permanently. We're not in. The citizens don't fit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u56	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u57	Madam President, I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, and Mr Calderoli for their attention and dedication in these days of work on a debate which apparently has as its object the amendment of the Constitution. Thanks also go to the undersecretaries Pizzetti and Scalfarotto, who also showed with their similar attention from the Government. I said that the change of the Constitution is only the apparent object of our meeting here today because there is not so much at stake the constitutional change that allows the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. I say this without raising my voice, because one thing is no longer true if you shout louder. And I say that without using hyperboli, because it is not the violence of images that can betray or better translate the meaning of things. However, the meaning of my speech is to make it clear to the Italians that the object of our reunion is not the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, but the beginning in our country of an authoritarian democracy of Putinian style [[Applause from the M5S Group]] which finds its foundation, not in what is written in this constitutional bill, but in the joint application of what will be the result of our constitutional revision with the so-called Italicum, i.e. with an electoral law designed in such a way that the institutions become the ground of application of the principle of who, being in the majority, wants to make institutions in his image and likeness. In fact, at the time of the rediscovered democracy, in 1948, the Constitution of the Italian Republic was made to defend those principles that had been felt - I would say - nostalgia in the time of abuse and violence. Today, unfair rules are being made to defend not new principles, but new princes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , their strategy, their interests, the abstract idea of a simplification of democracy that is opposed to the simplicity of a true democracy, that is, made with adequate balance of powers and objective dependence on the will of the people. In short, Renzi's Senate is a courtesan harp that, instead of overcoming bicameralism, will make the whole Parliament insignificant and confusing. Just now that there could be a balance between representation and governability through overcoming the perfect bicameralism, giving a guarantee function to a elected Senate in a proportional way that does not give confidence and has no ordinary legislative power, right now it is moving towards a system that essentially cancels the functioning of constitutional guarantees that are based on qualified majorities. The combination of Italicum and the current reform project leads to: essentially rendering inoperative the guarantees laid down in the Constitution. The most serious problem is the reflection of the reform on the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. When the constituent in 1948 drew that architecture assumed the proportional system and introduced a series of rules that somehow had to force it to find an agreement between the political forces for the election of the offices of control and guarantee as the Head of State and the Consulta. Now the 58 regional councillors participating in the election of the President are abolished, the Senate is reduced to 95 people, plus those of presidential nomination who are no longer alive but increase by 5.5% the total of the Assembly; however, with Italicum, which assigns to the majority 354 MPs, it is enough to have 9 senators to elect the President of the Republic and the constitutional judges of parliamentary appointment. The Head of State then appoints the other 5 constitutional judges, and in this way the majority is awarded 10 seats of the Council. In fact, is this a result or not equivalent to a regime? I would now like to make a second comment. Renzi says we're going towards a German model: it's not like that. Firstly, Italy is not a federal Republic but a regional State; secondly, the President of the Republic in Germany has smaller powers, and the Registrar has more powers, but is subject to considerable scrutiny and the Constitutional Court works differently. The German Parliament, that is, is elected with a rigidly proportional system and the only limit is the 5% barrier threshold. Above all, however, the reform of the Senate meets once again with Italicum, which is designed in such a way that, out of absurdity, eight percent of the votes are hypothetically enough to win 54 percent of the seats. I remember that the so-called Acerbo law, which cemented the fascist regime, provided for the majority prize to be taken if the most voted list had at least 25%. That is the third point. We people are for a Senate elected by the citizens and this reform instead provides a bad example of political nomenclature folded on itself and almost afraid of the will of the citizens. In the Commission's text, these appointed senators will be able to legislate on constitutional laws, and I find it unacceptable that second-appointed parliamentarians should be able to decide on such fundamental issues. It is also obvious that in the presence of a hyper-majoritarian law, such as Italicum, the Senate must retain certain prerogatives in relation to the major issues, rights, guarantees, religious freedom and civil rights; they are matters that are taken from the Senate as it comes out of the Commission and this cannot agree with me. Let us also say that tomorrow, in our country, with a hyper-majoritarian law, a majority will win the elections, for example, an extremely secularist who decides to introduce forms of euthanasia for children with serious pathologies or for the elderly. In the face of these risks, we need a Senate of guarantees that will provide a further moment of assurance and reflection. I would like to make one more point: it has been said that Europe is waiting for this reform. False. Europe is waiting for the reform of the labour market, of a tax system that is among the most unjust, of justice, which is now outside the standards of the acquis communautaire, but not constitutional reform. I would remind you that the European institutions never had a trade union about the fact that the Member States were even monarchies or republics. The important thing is that they are democracies, efficient and respectful of the will of the people; what we will no longer be when we become an institutional system in which citizens are forbidden the free expression of the vote. I conclude by saying that if senators owe loyalty to someone or something, this is the nation and certainly not a secretary, a leader or a party discipline. [[Applause from the PI, FI-PdL XVI and M5S Groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u58	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u59	Madam President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this morning President Finocchiaro took a detailed look at the most important aspects of the reform in our examination. After you, however, Mr Calderoli has drawn up a historical picture or, if you like, a chronicle of how it came from the original text of the Government at the last hours, to the text that is in the attention of this House. Even by giving too much colour, perhaps narcissistic autobiography to his friend Calderoli, I have the impression that he has brought to the attention of this House problems and aspects of our legislative appointment evoked in some way also by other colleagues. I do not know how and how much those who sit among the benches of the government have the sense of the institutional honour of their own condition or, on the other hand, have the vanity to sit on different ranks from those of colleagues; in any case, Senator Calderoli's statements would have deserved that a representative of the government should speak, as he can do in this House and in all the free parliaments, at any time. The picture of the initial design of the Government drawn by my colleague Calderoli, beyond some excessive color, is a picture of a real presumption of totalitarianism, much more ingenious and much worse than that of my colleague Mario Mauro's last speech. Mr Calderoli asked that an explanation be given to him as to why a text of law which wants to establish, instead of the Senate of the Republic, the Chamber of Independents provides that, out of 100 members, 21 are appointed by the Head of State, and why the drunkenness of territorial democracy would lead to so many mayors in that text. The government's silence has dismayed me so far. In this case it boasts on its merits, but also objectively the Senator Finocchiaro and all those in the Commission who were able to work with him until the expulsion, the red card for three players who had entered with a tight leg (they had voted in favour of Senator Calderoli's agenda against that initial text), to have kept some points for the continuation of our work: the number of Members and the composition of the Senate. I'm sorry if it's too little, compared to the merit of the bill we're dealing with. When it comes to constitutional reforms, Calderoli is a rapporteur (majority rapporteur or minority rapporteur are all inappropriate expressions when dealing with constitutional texts). The rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, has repeatedly attributed to our efforts to constitutional reform the objective of integrating into Europe and integrating with Europe. But each of us wonders what makes us far from Europe: the constitutional order of 1948 or that regional order introduced in 1970? In 1970, colleagues of the League, I remember an exversive and clumsy phenomenon: his name was Padania. Bossi and Calderoli have nothing to do with it. They were the president of the Emilia-Romagna Region, Fanti, the president of the Lombardy Region, Bassetti (demo-Christian), and Professor Miglio who wanted Italy in Europe, in Brussels, to aggregate the front of the Regions. And Padania was called those seats of European politics. Today, beyond the rhetoric of manner, but not always of circumstance, what makes us far from Europe? Mr Mauro spoke of the difficulty of doing job reform, of course, but there is also the difficulty of having a regional system like ours. In the field of work, representatives of the Government, you who in these days are facing the Youth Guarantee project, in which we talk about employment, what is the wall of insensitivity that the Minister of Labour said every day that he had to overcome? The regional institute is a rotten institution and so it was. We had understood this, in the guerrilla between Catanzaro and Reggio Calabria, between Pescara and L'Aquila. It's the regional institute. There is no doubt that it clearly provided for the prerogatives of professional training. An absolute failure: non-existent teachers, courses that were not held. And there is no North and South region that has reunited at the Department of Professional Training. They all want the university councilman, a subject for which one can have either the prerogative of competing power or that which, with skillful artifice, the regionalist (more than myself) Calderoli has been able to carve out in this text to reopen legislative spaces, not necessarily shared by me, to regional autonomy. Then, apart from the fateful health issue, the regional order, as entered into our constitutional mechanism, was a failure, a catastrophe, a crooked wood. Perhaps this could be corrected Tremontianaly, if federalism had really been so. But this is a country that was born to national unity not with federalism, but with the State, the liberal state, which was the first example of a national state, and in which the originality was the State on the periphery: the provider of studies of a school that wanted state or the provider of public works. Then comes the Bassanini law, in the mid '90s, and all these things abolish them. The much blamed race to the provincial institution by what has been determined for a century? From the fact that you wanted State, not that you wanted Region. And now we are going to armor; we had already done so very badly in 2000, in that reform of Title V of Part II whose constitutional motivation was the political retaliation against Calderoli and Bossi for having allied with the center-right, after having livened up for a legislature and a half as the left rib or as midfielders. We are going to redo our constitutional mechanism on the wrong side. And so it is clear that guarantees are lacking, if I may mention my colleague and friend Mario Mauro. On the contrary, in Mauro I would allow myself to make an amendment, when he says that the 1948 Constitution, providing for those guarantee institutions that were the methods of election of the Head of State and of the Constitutional Court, implied proportionality. No, Mauro: much more. Giolitti's agenda had been voted on in the Constitution, indicating the proportional system as indispensable, with the opposition of very high consciences; I think of Einaudi and many others. That agenda is the reservation of guarantees that are really guarantees. In this legislative event, we have left dangerously empty the area of guarantees. I hope that the work we are going to do in discussing article by article will allow us to adjust many of these distortions, in the sense suggested by my colleague, Mr Mauro. But I keep saying that all this presidentialism of territorial democracy takes us far, disintegrates us from the European institutions. We are losing parliamentaryism and we are not taking any decision-making. Allow me one last reference. It is a book, which I found again in my library, by Giuliano Amato (it is in the mid-1970s); it is titled "A Republic to be reformed", a little book of "Il Mulino", with the white cover. Beloved wonders whether the necessary constitutional reform will start from the higher branches (the form of government, the judiciary) or start from the lower branches (the order of the Regions, which were then just born). Beloved can't give an answer. The answer that we can give, after so many failures of constitutional reforms of this almost half a century of constitutional and political history, is that the low branches prevailed, but they did so in their baseness. When I went to read again Giuliano Amato - we are in the years 1976-1977, the times of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 616 - the question whether the Regions must be a body of management or of legislation and planning is open and all claim that the Regions must be everything except management. Instead, in one of the very high branches of the constitutional order, a Bourbon, Padana and anti-national conception of regionalism has been affirmed - and we give it a bounce. From this point of view, I hope, as far as possible, that the Senate will correct some distortions. Otherwise, we will find ourselves abolishing the Senate and supporting the walls of 21 regional assemblies, and then whoever believes goes to explain to Italian citizens why Benevento cannot be Province while Molise can be Region. I am referring to the wall of the 300,000 inhabitants. So, it's something bullying, something done to govern and not to represent. There is no doubt that, as important as governance is, representativeness is a priority requirement when putting hand to the Constitution. Otherwise, you want to command and, when you want to command, there is only one resource, constitutionalism. Constitutionalism is not the guarantee of a sober majority against a drunk minority, but it is exactly the opposite: it is the guarantee for the minority of the sober people that they can always appeal, rather than the minority of the drunken people against the majority of the sober people. The wretchedness with which we have been looking at guarantee institutions in all these years, leaving even a future constitutional reform the issue of issues, namely the question of the prosecution, the one that opened up the disaster of bribes, shows that we have a lot to work with in the coming days. We hope to do this well, and I would like to stress in some way the appointments made in this House by Senator Calderoli on the number of Members of Parliament with reference to the House of Deputies. Frankly, that of the 630 Members and the 100 senators, regardless of the debate whether these 100 are senators or not, is something that the ruler likes, but it does not serve to govern. [[Applause from the EFI-PdL XVII and Senators Buemi, Mauro Mario and De Pietro Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u60	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, despite us, we are called upon to change the nature of our constitutional order. President Renzi recently said that he would like it to be an epochal reform, or at least that it was recognized that this is an epochal reform. We have no difficulty in doing that. What we are called upon to vote on today is undoubtedly an epochal reform. (17.04) (Follow BUCCARELLA). It is epochal because it is being implemented by a government that, as supported by the parties of the great understanding, has never been elected by the people, although the President wishes to emphasize on every occasion that, in the last European elections, he has taken 40.8%. If this data can justify a recognition as a political interlocutor in limited fields, it cannot, however, justify a legitimization in the national context, to the point of bringing the country towards this personalistic and totalitarian drift, voted to the annihilation of oppositions for the benefit of a hasty and harmful decision-making for the balances of our system. It is epochal because it is the result of a mysterious agreement concluded in the secret rooms of a party seat, with a prejudice that those reforms will not even be able to vote for them because they are forbidden. We know what the criminal has promised: white paper and unconditional support for the reforms that this Government intends to carry out. However, we do not know the counterpart, the synallagma of this contract, which is not difficult to imagine, given the delicate legal and procedural situation of Berlusconi. Is it epochal because it will be voted by an elected Parliament - appointed? - with an electoral law that the Constitutional Court, as has been mentioned several times, has established to be unconstitutional; therefore, by a majority not expressed by the people, but the result of legit mathematical escapism that allowed a coalition, which immediately crumbled, to have a disproportionate number of parliamentarians, who today, with determined arrogance, intend to change the rules of our democracy. It is epochal, finally, also for the carature of the characters who are carrying out this reform: in place of the various Calamandrei, Togliatti, La Pira, Moro and Mortati, today we find - absit iniuria verbis - Minister Boschi. I leave to everyone the appropriate considerations, keeping mine for me. The message, however, which I would like to convey here, which wants to be an invitation to the reflections of all, is that such an epochal reform probably had to be better thought out; indeed, it certainly had to be better thought out, with more time available and an effective confrontation with all the forces present in Parliament, without this ferocious desire to bring home the result to pin a medal, to the detriment of the country's skin and the institutions, which only in practice, sometimes, did not work as they should have done in theory. Yes, the problem is not in the Constitution. Many problems that this reform intends to resolve formally could be overcome by amending the House and Senate Regulations, with measures to streamline the dead times, intervening minimally on the Constitution, with a forecast of a decrease in the number of parliamentarians and a half of their allowances. But we realize that a reform of this kind, although more reasonable and less invasive - in a word, more democratic - would not have lent itself to the definition of epochal and, then, would not have had that high rate of spectacularity, resumable in slide, which our President-in-Office of the Council so much likes. The frenzy that seems to have possessed this Government is not compatible with reforms of this importance. The haste is never a wise counselor and seems to have forgotten that the last historical character, who liked the masses so much for its decisive decision-making, has led the country to live the twenty darkest years of its history (and I am not referring to Berlusconi). The danger of a totalitarian drift with this reform becomes concrete; the whole system of weights and counterweights elaborated by the constituent Fathers jumps, is swept away as if history had taught us nothing in its cyclically resorting. This reform is sweeping away those antibodies that, in 1947, injected themselves into a body tested by war and regime. I therefore invite everyone, ladies and gentlemen, to read what is the volume of the preparatory acts of the draft Constitution. I did, and I realized that many things that today take for granted and want to cancel with a sponge stroke are actually painful conquests, the result of the tragic experience then just passed. It's not just about today. Almost seventy years ago we were talking about the French system, the German system and the US system; we were talking about what was the best way to avoid the mixture of the various powers of the State and what were the appropriate and better counter-measures to keep the whole system in a stable balance. The use of one term in place of another was perplexed. Entire days were spent searching for the words that could best express that particular concept, avoiding that then that phrase could be the subject of wrong interpretations or bad faith. In that Constituent, ladies and gentlemen, there were people of moral, political and intellectual stature who deserve greater respect. They deserve their work to be read at least if not appreciated; they deserve that this Parliament, in a whisper of dignity and humility, which in this period seems largely lost, confess its inadequacy (if one does not want to recognize its own illegitimacy) in putting hand with such violence to the meditated work of those people who wrote our Constitution on the rubble and blood of a country that wanted to be reborn and resurrected as a phoenix. I conclude with one last reflection: our Constitution is neither old nor outdated. The frenzy of changing just to make can not lead to any positive results. I appeal not to the forces of this Parliament, but to individuals, to regain the dignity of their own office which they are called to carry out here and feel almost as overwhelmingly the responsibility for the vote that they will express on this reform. Finally, speaking still of twenty years old, I like to remember what in a recent meeting organized by Justice and Freedom was remembered, for those who followed him: some sentences of those who became the protagonist of the twenty years of the twentieth century, of the century just passed, but also of those who became the protagonist of the twenty years at the turn of the present century. I want to recall the words with which Silvio Berlusconi in 2007, on the occasion of the presentation of the umpteenth book by Bruno Vespa, opera omnia, stated: Among all the prime ministers mentioned in this volume, there is only one man of power: Benito Mussolini. All the other powers didn't have any. I believe that if we do not change the architecture of the Republic, we will never have a premier able to decide, to give modernity and development to the Country. And like Berlusconi a few years ago, even Matteo Renzi seems to pursue the same model, that of a single man in command, able to decide loose from the constraints, the conditionings and obstacles that have afflicted the political leaders during the history of the Republic. But before even the Republic, let's go see what it said the same leads on the day of the approval of the law scam. Mussolini said: Only one thing must be rigidly affirmed: that the mass of citizens means that the elected assembly is the most capable of constituting a government, capable of resolving in the fastest, firmest and most univocal way all the many issues that arise in everyday life; not awkward by preventive compromises, not prevented by insurmountable prohibitions: representation is destined to a completely secondary role. So, we have known the fascist twenty years, we have crossed, surviving in some way, the Berlusconian twenty years, but this same absence of brakes and counterweights to the power of the Executive seems to inspire the institutional reforms of Matteo Renzi. And what is at stake is not only constitutional democracy, but perhaps democracy as a whole: a reflection for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cocianchich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u63	Mr President, I have listened with great interest to many of the previous speeches and I must say that I would have been very impressed if Italy were a small island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, where all the industrial or cultural relations were managed within a small community. Unfortunately, or luckily, that is not the case. Italy is a great industrial, manufacturing country, a country that has an important financial dimension and is an important actor in international trade. Today we are experiencing a profound economic crisis resulting from a fact that has a global dimension: today investments are made in countries where the conditions of the world of work are more advantageous, where there is greater efficiency of the bureaucratic and administrative machinery and where justice is more efficient. Italy, among the countries of Western democracy, remained the last, the least efficient, the most neglected from the point of view of foreign investments and, therefore, the one in which the labour crisis feels more heavy. Everyone today fills their mouths by claiming that they want to think about what is really important, that is to give back work to our young people and to those who have lost it, but we forget that Italy today is neglected by the great international investors and therefore we remain marginal in the commercial and industrial traffic of the Western world. This is because our institutions are now rusty, unable to respond to the challenges posed. Therefore, reforming our institutions is not the idea of a young dictator, as in some way Renzi is painted by those who preceded me, but it is the awareness that today such reform is a necessary game to give back momentum to our economy, without which any hope to give back strength to the world of work, to give back wealth to our fellow citizens turns out to be a mere chimera. In the draft law presented this morning, there is one element which has been highlighted little but which I would like to stress: the European dimension of reform. Article 55, as amended by the Commission's work, highlights the aspect I would like to comment on: today the Senate will also be recognised as a link between the European institutions and our national and local institutions. This is a fundamental issue, because Europe, which I regard as the only possible response to the great economic crisis that gripes us, is today our container, our fundamental horizon, also from the institutional point of view. Everyone today is talking about a perfect bicameralism that you want to modify. Few people realize, it seems to me, that in reality we are not in a bicameralism today, but we are living in a much more articulated system than sometimes, a little to laugh, I have defined imperfect tricameralism, because there are also the European institutions. In fact, the situation is even more complex because at European level we have not only Parliament, but also the Council and the European Commission. There is an internal dynamic between the European institutions which must be taken into account. These institutions were not present when our constituent Fathers drew up the Constitution that we want to amend today, because neither did the European Community exist at the time. Today we are talking about the European Union with 28 members and a highly articulated legislative system. At present there is a lack of democracy at European level, because decisions are taken not primarily with the Community system, therefore with the involvement of representatives of the different Member States within the European Parliament, but with an intergovernmental system. The famous fiscal compact, for example, is the implementation of an intergovernmental system of enhanced cooperation. It is on this system that we must succeed today if we really want the principle of democracy, representativeness and participation of our citizens to have a voice. We risk pointing to the moon but only looking at the finger, if we think it is just a problem of relationship between the Senate and the House and between the Senate and the Government. Today the important games, the fundamental decisions for our future are taken more in Brussels than in Rome. 70% of the legislation in force in Italy originates in the Community, indeed in Europe and does not always have a parliamentary origin. It is therefore important that the Italian parliamentary institutions make their voice heard in the debate taking place in Brussels, at European level, between the various governments. A Senate dealing with European issues, which serves as a link between the European Union and the regions, will play this fundamental role, which seems to me much less secondary than a deliberate debate on whether or not to have an allowance, to have an elected Senate with a system of first or second degree. These, in my opinion, are details of the great challenges we face. Today we must ensure that the voice of Italian citizens, the voice of Italian companies, the voice of Italian interests can echo strongly before the European institutions. Today the Italian Parliament, after the Treaty of Lisbon, has a say and must make it heard. Unfortunately, the cumbersome nature of our procedures, the eternal delay in our speeches means that the voice of the Italian Parliament is considered to be somewhat marginal and irrelevant. The opinions given are not considered: anyone who has gone to Brussels to take a tour can see how inadequate the considerations of the Italian Parliament are judged, for the reason that they are always late, they are always capitious, they do not focus the problems. On the other hand, we must equip ourselves with a Parliament capable of dealing with the problems, capable of having impact plans and schemes on the basis of which we can understand the economic and social impact of certain financial measures, and of being able to react and bring our voices, both in ascending and descending stages, in a corresponding way. It seems to me that this is the great democratic challenge that we are facing, because today we must find the strength of a voice that is very dim at this moment. I am therefore grateful to the rapporteurs who have accepted the suggestion (which I too gave) to open a window on the European issue. I believe that the statement of principle, now contained in Article 55, will enable us to work, I hope, already in a further amending phase of the text of the Constitutional Bill, but also in the process of implementing ordinary rules, on a reform of Law No 234 of 2012, in order to provide concrete tools to have a stronger influence at European level. I repeat that this is the real scenario on which we measure ourselves. In conclusion, I believe that what is offered to us is a truly extraordinary historical opportunity. I have no sense of inferiority compared to the great constituent Fathers who preceded us and I believe that none of us should have it, not because we are who knows what great lawyers (I personally consider myself as a dwarf on the shoulders of giants), but because this is our time; if our constituent Fathers had felt in awe before Justinian, we would probably still be in the legislation of Roman law. I repeat that today is our time: we must seize it and do our best to try to give voice to our interests and also a little voice of hope and idealism in a Europe that is currently too focused on economic aspects. Italy has this voice, this idea and this heritage, but it does not have the capacity to express them in an effective political action. I would therefore like to stress the linking dimension between the European Union and the regions, which are directly interlocutive (including on the basis of the European Treaties) of the European Union, have a role and a way of making the voices of local institutions and citizens heard at a territorial level. I believe that Parliament will sum up - I hope also choral - all this, which will give strength and prestige to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u64	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the reform is to provide a solution to the problems and malfunctions of our institutional system. The reform therefore aims to overcome the perfect bicameralism, to limit the relationship of trust in the House and to make the second Chamber the representative body of the autonomy. A goal, that of the regionalization of the Senate, which has been discussed for at least twenty years. In most cases, the criticism of principle of the plant (which we have also heard today) reproduces the old rational anomalies, and they also propose new ones, and are mostly the result of an antihistorical complex of the tyrant. It is hardly appropriate to point out, in fact, that the Assembly wanted a weak system of government, so that no political side could win to the end and no one could be cut off entirely from the Government. A slow and repetitive Parliament would have been a useful brake, specifically aimed at exhausting any majority out of the ballot box. The presence of two chambers invested with the same political powers and legislative powers is the most blatant contradiction that has no equal in other parliamentary democracies. A wreck of when - as Scoppola recalled - each of the sides feared on April 18 of the other. It is not by chance that every time the issue of constitutional reforms is put on the agenda so as to give the Italian governments the same institutional force that governments have in all other European democracies we are back to talking about an authoritarian turning point or we are pulling out the P2. Since the beginning of the crisis of the representation of traditional political forms (the Bozzi Commission, in fact, was established in 1983), institutional reforms have been discussed in Italy, more or less since the end of the 1970s, i.e. since the beginning of the crisis (the Bozzi Commission, in fact, was established in 1983), the fundamental question is always the same: can Italy become a "normal" parliamentary democracy, or not? That is to say: can it become a democracy in which those who win the elections can implement their programme within a framework of guarantees provided above all by the Constitutional Court and in which the valorization of autonomy takes place without conflict between center and periphery? The political crux of the reform of bicameralism lies here. As always the discrimination, the watershed is among those who want to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the economic crisis or the need to adapt our institutional system (little important) to trigger a process of alignment of Italy to the best European standards and who thinks that this project is unrealizable because - not even to mention it - Italy is different and because in Italy these things cannot be done. In other countries, those who win the elections in the first chamber rule, and the guarantees that they do not go beyond the limits set by the Constitution are given by the body of constitutional justice and not by a Senate designed to do, in a completely abnormal way, to counter the government. In other countries the second Chambers that do not give confidence and where the Government cannot put trust have an equal power only on constitutional laws and little else because they must not prevent governability. In other countries, the issue of the development of rights guaranteed by the Constitution also prevails everywhere the first Chamber (of course, under the constraints of the Courts), because almost all the key legislation launched by the parliaments in fact affects the rights and is included in the platforms with which you apply for the government of the country. First of all, then, we must ask ourselves what is the reason for being a second House today, also because if we do not find a compelling reason the Senate would be better to abolish it altogether. Moreover, the hypothesis of a pure and simple abolition of the Senate cannot be seen what contraindications it would have, especially if the aim were only to save money. In my opinion, it does not make any political and institutional sense to assume that the second chamber should have its justification in a political role of counterweight to the first, whether explicit (maintaining a double trust relationship) or implicit (widening the area of bicameral equality laws in an unreasonable way and so on). In this way, it would not represent the autonomy but would be a worse duplication of the House, because the only sure guarantee would be to undermine the governability, leading to a great coalition in fact with the main parliamentary groups of the Senate even those who had lost the Chamber. It does not escape anyone that a Senate without the trust relationship, but also free from the question of trust where the government cannot put trust, could, could, could have, paralyse the government and the majority in a completely abnormal way compared to the European parliamentary democracies. Moreover, what should be the guarantee, especially if we consider that this is a requirement that the Constitutional Court already entrusts to the Constitutional Court, as well as to the President of the Republic, to an increasing extent in recent years? Constitutional rights must be protected by the Court, if ever by prior recourse to it by parliamentary minorities. But if the Constitution is not violated we are faced with choices for which the parliamentary majority must take responsibility, as is the case in all European countries. As I see it, the fundamental reason for a second Chamber is to be the place of connection with the territories by completing and correcting the design begun with the reform of Title V. Outside of this scheme, no second Chamber is justified. On the contrary, the urgency of the reform is justified precisely by the need to create institutions in which the Regions and local authorities are called to "collaborate" the definition of public policies, so as to avoid that the laws of the State try to impose unilateral choices on subjects who will then be called to apply them and who will fatally express their dissent by feeding the litigation before the Constitutional Court. There are those who claim that a reform that is copied by the German or American model, born in other cultures and in different historical circumstances, is badly adapted to our situation. And it is true that after years of lack of promises today federalism, i.e. the demand for autonomy and institutional reforms, does not enjoy great popularity and seems to become a problem. But it wouldn't be bad to keep in mind that, to put it with Ilvo Diamanti, that of new rules and new institutions is a road imposed by emergencies and fractures that we have chosen precisely to heal the contrast between society and state, the contrast between society and politics, a contrast that is not resolved because now of marches on the Po no more and the newspapers have stopped talking about Veneto as if it were the Ulster. If nothing else, because one of the components of federalist thinking has always been the search for spaces of autonomy and freedom for citizens, precisely through forms of containment and articulated distribution of public power. There is no precise index to distinguish a federal system from a regional system: both try to combine a measure of unity with a measure of diversity. The distinction looks essentially to the past, to the way in which the system, the state, has been formed and the regional systems are the result of a process of decentralizing the functions of a centralized state, so Italy but so also Spain, France and even the United Kingdom, because wherever the demands were more or less the same. And in the face of the great changes that have occurred in the last seventy years in the organization and in the same function of the State, more or less the same have been the problems that the systems of relation center-periphery have had to face and more or less the same have also been the answers that have been tried to elaborate. The fact remains, however we see it, that our Republic is no longer that of before, it has already changed and today it is unfinished, in half. However consider it, the reform of Title V, which even Augusto Barbera had defined as "sgangherata", wanted by the center-left at the end of the legislature under the second government of Giuliano Amato and confirmed by the popular vote in the referendum of 7 October 2001, has brought to the Part of the Constitution that regulates relations between State, Regions and local authorities, profound changes, and it is from here that we must start. That Title V has operating defects is a shared opinion. The first critical point is precisely the excessive faith placed in the division of subjects. The legal order and its laws do not lend themselves to being included in specific subjects and in any case the pre-determination of the subject cannot be exhaustive: always new and ever new subjects will emerge will be the interweavings between one and the other matter. The border line is uncertain by definition, but mobility in itself is not bad, since all modern federal systems or regional systems are leaning for a flexible division of skills and a subtle game of interference. This mobility becomes, and has become in our case, a very difficult problem to solve when the instruments of coordination are lacking, particularly when there is a lack of a branch of Parliament that can take on a role of mediation and absorption of conflicts between state and self-government. The lack of the parliamentary place of mediation is the second and main critical point of the reform, not to mention that, in the absence of an institutional compensation room for interests, uncertainty has generated many conflicts that are donated to the Constitutional Court, which has been forced to settle issues that have a high rate of interpretative opinability and therefore a high rate of politicity, which does not favour the composition of interests, but has encouraged the emergence of the conflict and the judicialization of relations between central interests and interests of the territory. In short, this transformation and then metamorphosis of politics into legal litigation has imposed on the Court - just to understand us, as its President has emphasized - a role of supplement not required and not welcome. So, since the current bicameralism is unsustainable, the question is very simple: do you want to adjust and revise the reform of Title V, as is necessary and urgent, or do you think that that reform should be reset in order to return to the previous status quo? That is the choice we must make. It seems to me that to go back is an unrealistic objective, as well as unsatisfying. It would suffice to ask: if much of the administrative implementation of the laws weighs on the regions and on the local government, how can one govern against or even without the system of autonomy? Not only that, but the action of the regions and municipalities depends largely on the provision of social services, the implementation of state laws and policies, public spending. Putting the centre of coordination between the legislation of the State and its implementation in the territories within the constitutional institutions is today an indispensable necessity for the proper functioning of the constitutional system. But if we really have changed our mind, if we really think that there is no way to make the Regions work, if we think that these have become, as I have read, the repository of corruption, the place of collusion between private interests and political caste, if we think that the reform is a gift to the evil of the local caste, then the Senate would be better to abolish it completely and recentralize. On the other hand, if we want to give an effective role to a second Chamber, which no longer has the vote of confidence, the best solution is the one which assigns the new Senate a very limited but incisive role in the legislative process, on the basis of a real need to complete the reform of Title V of Part II. Also because Title V, even if it is written, rewritten and again rewritten, works only if it has as terminal a Chamber in which the regional legislators are responsible. So if we want to maintain the Title V plant, we need to make a regional chamber. How? Of course, you can do it in many ways, as always. But let's start by saying that that of the direct electivity of the second chamber is not at all a rule, but all the opposite. This is not the case in Germany or Austria, it is not the case in France, not to mention the United Kingdom or Canada: I can make a list of second rooms. I personally find that the most sensible model is that of German federalism, in which the second chamber, the Bundesrat, is not elected, but is formed by representatives of regional governments, because the basic law specifies that both parties (through their parliamentarians to the Bundestag) and the Länder, that is the regions (thanks to the members of the regional executives) cooperate (the German word used is emblematic: mitwirken, that is to say they work together) in the implementation of German politics at the federal level. The role that the Senate must play, in a proper federal or regional structure is clear: not only the Chamber of Reflection in relation to the deliberations taken in the first branch of Parliament, but, above all, the place of representation, in the decision-making process of the federation, the regional system, the territorial authorities that make up it. It is not by chance that in Germany the second Chamber is not organized in parliamentary groups, like the other (the Bundestag), and that, as a rule, in its Commissions the more technical guidelines prevail over the party ones. Therefore, if we want to maintain a regional structure (and finally want to make it work), we must do the Bundesrat or something that looks very much like it, because we must avoid proposing again in the second Chamber the same oppositions (dependent on the influence and party belongings) that characterize the daily life of the directly elected branch of Parliament, thus ending up distorting the Senate in an improper instrument of opposition to the political line of the parliamentary majority, more likely in the event that the prevailing political orientation in the second chamber is of different sign from that represented in the first. This is what the Germans are trying to avoid, because it would be the entire regionalist structure of the state organization that would cost them. I take note of the fact that the text that came out of the Commission (which takes the road of differentiation on the Austrian Bundesrat model, just to give an example) deviates, in some respects, from my approach and I believe that the text should be amended, going as far as possible in the direction I have tried to illustrate. First of all, I consider the maintenance of senators for life inappropriate: I believe that the Senate should represent territorial interests and nothing else. It would also be preferable, as far as the voting mechanism is concerned, to adopt, in the Bundesrat, as an ordinary method, the unitary vote per regional delegation. Each region decides how to vote in the Assembly and expresses its votes in a unified way, which means that the vote of the Region is declared "a package" by a single spokesman, chosen from time to time by the different representatives, according to the German model (which then, in principle, is not unlike that of the Council of the Union: it is not that nothing is invented). Obviously, if all the members of the Senate of the Autonomouss, in this case of the territories and the Regions, represent precisely the territories and if they are not directly elected as senators, in my view it makes no sense to prohibit the bond of mandate. It also seems inappropriate to me to keep the metropolitan cities among the entities that constitute the Republic and then quote them, later, next to the Municipalities and the Regions. It seems to me that it is inappropriate to place an unnecessary body, such as the Metropolitan City, on the same line as the necessary bodies. Already with the Provinces he had to back down and he would have to learn the lesson. I try to quickly define two more points. Many of the innovations introduced in Article 117 of the Constitution are largely already consolidated by the Constitutional Court's judgments, so that transfers of jurisdiction in favour of the exclusive power of the State and the introduction of the supremacy clause do not change the current framework, except in the sense of settling what the Constitutional Court has already drawn up. Finally, the introduction of a regional chamber, as was also stressed in the report to the bill, and its association in the formation of laws allow to disengage the system of division of competences from the strict listing of subjects, a technique that has demonstrated all its ineffectiveness. The most important defect is the absence of a discipline of collaborative procedures, because moving from the dispute downstream to the collaboration upstream requires some procedural device that serves this objective. In the amendments I also refer to another proposal, which has always fascinated the doctrine: the introduction of organic laws, in our system in particular with regard to electoral law, therefore a legislative source that goes between the Constitution and ordinary laws, as happens in France and Spain. In conclusion, Mr President, my impression is that criticism of the reform system in principle is born of a nostalgic way of looking at the subject: it is noted that it is no longer possible to practice the old form of participation in politics, but it is believed that that specific form of participation in politics, that specific political-institutional system are the best and therefore tries to get as close as possible to that model and to save as much of that experience as possible. But this attitude stems from a static and conservative vision and our inaction, our spirit of conservation could in fact harm the strengthening of democratic institutions, contributing to their weakening. We have made it a fetish, but the Constitution cannot be a totem to venerate; it must be a living, active instrument, capable of ensuring cohesion and regulating the full development of democratic life. To understand this, from the post-war period up to 2002 Germany has changed 51 times the Basic Law and the 2006 Reform, precisely the one aimed at improving the decision-making capacity of the federation and the Länder, has modified 25 articles of the Basic Law; and if the Germans, in order to settle their federal system (and they are Germans...), have intervened more than 50 times, obviously we (who are Italians) will be forced to intervene, to adjust and to put our hands back again and again. And the ordinary maintenance of an innovative set-up such as the one we started with the regional reform is normal. If we can also reopen the issue of extending the presidential electorate in this House, the work will be considerably improved. [[Call the president back.]] I'm done, ma'am. Even so, however, we can say that most of the anomalies of Italian bicameralism, due to the conditioning of the cold war in the original constituent process, which forced us to reject solutions similar to this one (read the debate at the time), are on the way to sunset, are about to disappear with at least thirty years of delay. That is why I also consider the acceleration at this stage to be meritorious. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u66	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a friend of yours said that bad thinking is a sin, but many times it is right. After a year and a half that I am here with you I can say that to think badly of you is not a sin, many times you get right and surely you do the good of the citizens. So, before we continue to hear these wonderful formulations about why this reform of the Constitution is taking place, let us try to focus instead on why we are really doing this reform, on why we are doing it so quickly, indeed we have seen this race having to vote by 17 July. Why the 17th? Because on the 18th there is the sentence of Mr Berlusconi [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and it might happen that this further sentence would surely put Mr. Renzi in a greater difficulty to say that he absolutely wants as an ally and Father constituting a multicondemned, at that point even vaguely invisible to his of Forza Italia who could also decide that perhaps these reforms are not so good for him anymore. So let's try the Nazarene Pact by July 17th, so that on the table of what was an important meeting (surely not streaming like ours, but very secret) perhaps the result will have to be brought that, with this wicked agreement between constitutional reform and electoral law, finally the new Government will be able to elect its President of the Republic at the ninth vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This will remove the "Great President of the Republic," who will finally no longer have to bring the shame of the pardon to the known offender: he will give it to the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At that point, it all comes back, gentlemen, we've closed the circle. What do we do? We play with majority and opposition. It's always you: it was always just you. The only thing that has put you in such a hurry is to realize that in this corrupt, collusive, dirty system, which has ruled us for thirty years, a virus had crept in: 25 percent of citizens. If it could never be repeated, that that 25 could become a 30: we immediately entrench the caste, let's reduce it even a little; we sacrifice 200 senators, who cares, so far you will infiltrate them (the places where to put people that suits you you never lack [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ), but on the other hand we avoid that all the system is removed. In fact, we are even more devious: we put Ghedini in the Constitutional Court, since this is what you are saying around. I remind you that it is investigated, but probably for your system makes curriculum be the suspect, so undoubtedly Ghedini is fine with you too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You already have a regime press: gentlemen, the dictatorship is beautiful and served. But no, I'm sorry, the dictatorship brings you home together with this constitutional reform that says it sucks is to give you a compliment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And I'm not saying that: read the opinions of the constitutionalists you have in the Commission. The citizens may not know this, but it should work like this here: these people are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and listen to constitutional experts; three out of four - go and read the shorthand report; I did - tell you that you are out of your mind; that you are proposing a reform that makes no sense, that is in contradiction with itself, that you reform the Senate even before you know how you elect the Chamber of Deputies, without even knowing if there will be the right representativeness. But you don't care: the important thing is that Renzi brings the confection to Mr. Berlusconi. Then perhaps it is not by chance that simple citizens have entered the Chamber of this Senate at this very moment in history to defend the interests of the Italian people; it is probably the last time they will have, indeed, that we will have the chance. In fact, here we are spectators of the completion of the operation designed by our Premier - in our tour we also call it "Berlusconi 2.0 revenge" - to take over, with the approval of his fellow reformers (Berlusconi the original), of an undisputed domination, raising every opportunity for minorities even to advance criticism of its rise and tearing away any possibility of participation of the people in the democratic life of this country. It is a real machination, the completion of which is taking place, not by chance, in the middle of the summer season, when the spotlights of the media are off (or they turn them on just for what they want), people are already on holiday - if they could go there - and attention on these gruesome constitutional reforms is practically nothing. I remember when the President of the Council came to this House for the report on the European Semester: he ran out of the Chamber to go to see the game (it was Italy-Costa Rica). He stayed in here for 15 minutes during the break, no more. Now I understand the reason: undoubtedly, if yesterday the game had played Italy, today in this reform we would have included that the next Premier must be tall - now I don't know how tall Renzi - a meter 80, must have some mole and must look like Mr. Bean: so we had done the precise work. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario.]] When the Italians return from their holidays in September they will find a brand new Constitution, completely twisted, unrecognizable, without any brand of democracy: a Parliament that will no longer be a place where the citizens will feel represented, but a forum of Prime Minister followers, of diligent performers of its directives. The Constitutional Court, gentlemen, has been clear on what this Parliament should do, that, let us remember - my colleagues have already said so and we shall continue to say so - is illegitimate: this Parliament had only to make a new electoral law that would allow the Italians to go and vote and choose who should carry them forward in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] No, you don't. What are you doing, colleagues in the majority? (Senator Taverna looks around and smiles.) Most people don't give a damn about what's going on here. You always have to see 18 what happens. Who cares, then they'll tell him what they have to do. You are arrogating the right to put your hand in the Constitution of our Republic, turning more than a third of it upside down; to disfigure the form of State and Government; to decide on the democratic future of the citizens in the absence of a valid mandate they have conferred. What happened to the urgent economic measures that could stop the continuing crisis from continuing? The work bill, the famous jobs act, painted as a revolution? Tell me, where did the anti-corruption design go? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is shocking, gentlemen, to be in here and to see how good you are at not respecting the rules that you yourselves give you, the promises that you yourselves have made in front of millions of Italians! Thirty days had to run since the government had blocked the anti-corruption bill to present its own. It was June 5th and, if mathematics is not an opinion, today we had to discuss anti-corruption and not constitutional reforms. But that's what the Premier decided. Now, tell the Italians if it's more important to prevent corruption or make the Senate a safe conduct for convicted and remanded to trial. Behind the slimming diet of the legislative process lies a shameless plunder of every crumb of democracy on which our order could still stand, albeit staggering. A crumb, yes, because we are talking about this; a crumb resisted the shameless attempts of political forces in recent years to dispose of it with aberrant measures that were presented as urgent and necessary. If you were more intellectually honest, you would at least have the courage to admit that the Nazarene's secret pact serves only to secure the coalitions, so that the current Premier can win the next election, and that other, his mentor, get the monopoly of the opposition. I mean, you want to kill us because we're revealing to the citizens your filthy palace games that have been dark for too long. Right, left, but who are you kidding? Berlusconi's reforms were practically the same as they were today, yet that time the left made a riot: it managed to rip off the confirmation referendum and blocked everything. Today's good for you. I wonder why, since these are no longer called PdLs (they have left a consonant vacant), you do not take it and do not write exactly what party you are, so even when the citizens will vote for you they will actually know who they are voting for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Everything has been designed to rob this country of the active participation of citizens in political life. I remind you, we have said this but we will not tire of repeating it, and as long as we have voice and time we will continue to tell you. And so, to propose laws of popular initiative, the signatures increase from 50,000 to 250,000; to propose the referendum repealing, from 500,000 to 800,000. The Senate, on the other hand, elects it directly from you. But who gives you so much arrogance to think that, more than the citizens, you can elect senators who will participate in the construction of constitutional reform laws? But, I say, if at some point you all go crazy - in fact, don't go crazy, but do the right thing - and decide that instead of voting in five years you vote in ten, and you are always united, all in the great hustle and bustle of the beautiful majority, to us citizens who prevents us from this danger? But do you allow us to still have guarantees that you cannot do so? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Can you at least make us choose who should decide on our political life? At least this! Do you want to keep the Senate? But, man, let's get him elected! No, you have to elect him yourself. I can't stand you anymore, I swear to you, it's a year and a half and I'm really starting to have a physical annoyance with you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Albano (PD). The door is made to go in and out. TAVERNA (M5S). You're annoying. And you can't be in good faith, because I know you and I know you're prepared. President Finocchiaro is a very prepared woman and I saw her when Minister Boschi asked why she had not read the Constitution. Mr Boschi, who was in the first Commission to make constitutional reforms! I've seen more than one of these senators look at me and say that this reform is a piece of crap. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I will ask each of the League's lords how they will vote after the speeches they have made: if after everything you say and do, colleagues of the League, you will vote in favour of this reform, you will have to be ashamed and accountable to the Italians of the ruin that you are doing with our homeland! You said we scare people with words. Well, you're ruining them with facts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A Senate of nominees, no more or less than was the case at the time of the monarchy. In fact, worse, because at least at the time the senators chose them the King, for merits towards the Homeland. Today you choose them for your own merits. But you admonished us because we called the President of the Republic George. And it is he who is urging, pressing, these reforms; he, who proclaimed the principle of counterpowers. Where are the counterpowers? A Senate of mayors and regional councillors, part-time senators, in clear conflict of interest. This is another hallucinating thing: have you read Article 126 of the Constitution? In fact, the Senate must continue to deal with the procedures for the dissolution of the Regional Councils and the removal of the Presidents of the Councils, as stated in Article 126 of the Constitution. You obviously didn't touch this rule. Can you imagine a Senate made up of Presidents of the Region that dissolves a Regional Council? But are you mocking yourselves or, in a voluntary way, mocking the Italian people? Ask yourself a little and if the Italians ask. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Governors, city councilors, councillors and mayors, who have wasted taxpayers' money for their own ends, will have the honour of sitting here, among these cracks, in spite of the tragic crisis that is coming upon those taxpayers and their chance to lead a dignified life. But for you, those taxpayers, in fact, those citizens are nothing more than puppets to be managed by the unselfish puppeteer and convicted in turn. Tangents, favoritisms, connivance and collusion: this is the scenery that the daily chronicle has set as a backdrop to this splendid constitutional revision, worthy of the other great constitutional reforms that you did during the Second Republic: the disaster of the fake federalism of the left; the devolution of the right rejected by the popular referendum; and, icing on the cake, the balance. But can we come to this House and talk about constitutional reform as Italy's revenge on Europe? But don't you feel a little ridiculous when you say these things? Honestly, taken individually then I also appreciate you as people, but when you squat as a Democratic Party you are anything but honorable! But when you get up and, in a personal way, say such things, do you realize for yourself what you say or do you really need to change I don't tell you what, how do you use to say in my neighborhood? I would not add anything else, because it would not be enough, since you think it is enough to wear a tie and a jacket to do a little 'what you want! Just think of the health care that, almost entirely managed by the Regions, has been home to the greatest ineptities, longages and looting of public money, and all this to the detriment of the health of the citizens, in violation of that article 32 that you will be so flaunted, but that denies every day with your complacency in the face of the scandals of a system that is collapsing on itself! This counter-reform is justified by mentioning a supposed simplification and cost reduction: you have heard Mr Bottici's words on this, which I do not repeat. Mr Maran just referred to other systems in which you would like to transform ours. To justify the composition of the future Senate of the Autonomous Communities, refer to other advanced European democracies, such as France and Germany. So, let's say, in the meantime, that in France the ban on the accumulation of mandates has recently been provided - and here we insert it - and then let's also say that never in the other European systems, but only in Italy, it happens and it can happen that to represent the regional bodies - therefore among your future senators - we are investigated, accused and even condemned. We put them in the Senate and give them immunity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe that's why they're getting so fast, they've become too many; you risk that if you do the reform and you haven't put them in yet, you won't find them in the regions anymore! But let's go ahead, rather, let's skip something, because objectively it's time lost: here (turned towards the banks of the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups) there is no one; from there (turned towards the banks of the PD Group) you are so beautiful that framed and you don't move even if Italy falls, in fact, Italy you drop it directly! I merely add that it is these days the investigation carried out by three mayors by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Vallo della Lucania (Jordan, Pisani and Cilento) for fraud on regional funds. In Lombardy there was Roberto Formigoni (but he has already become a senator), accused of corruption for the regional funds allocated; today the news of Maroni came out, while in Abruzzo there was Ottaviano Del Turco, and the becero list, which I will avoid, could last forever. While infinitely it cannot last the patience of the Italians, who too much have given and which too much, with this bill, is intended to take away. We know how difficult it will be for the public to understand how bleak the project that you are really carrying out in this Italian Parliament, which now increasingly loses the features of the temple of democracy in order to take the form of a market. On the table of the most important stand - as I recall - Matteo Renzi and Berlusconi have already negotiated the grace for the known prejudiced, grace which will give the new President of the Republic, President already chosen by a Bulgarian majority, all belonging to the same party, which will become even more Bulgarian after the mutilation of the Senate. Just as they traded an electoral law that will allow you to exchange your robes of majority and opposition depending on who, at any given time, is more urgent to issue laws for their own personal gain. In this way even a Ghedini at the Constitutional Court becomes acceptable, so Amato had already settled it, didn't it? Again, the goods will be delivered as you requested, there is nothing to fear. The goal of all your hagglings, however, is very clear, gentlemen: Berlusconi only opposition to Renzi to the government, at least for now. Again happy and contented with the renewed and perennial broad understandings to the detriment of the Italian people. But we will do everything in and out of this House to stop the sleazy plan you are planning in your secret rooms. You will continue to propose immunity, fraud laws, plans to turn the Senate into a parking lot of felons. Only one thing matters to us: the sovereignty of this Republic must still belong to the people, as Article 1 of our Constitution says, and the people must fully return. We're not gonna pull back one step. We will defend his rights, we who do not think about the next elections but about the future of our children! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u68	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of Mr Boschi in the Chamber, whose presence is absolutely essential, is a matter of concern to us in this debate. Among other things, it appears that the extension of the House's work, without any continuity, was requested by the Minister himself. It is therefore regrettable to see here, in one verse, the absence of the Minister and, for the other, the constant presence of the rapporteurs who, up to this moment, have not abandoned the ranks where they sit to listen to all our speeches. With regard to our intervention, we particularly wish to talk about the question of the reorganization of State-Regions competences and, above all, the reform of Title V of the Constitution and Article 117. In fact, this issue is embodied in a history of reforms that has taken place in recent years with absolutely questionable effects. In essence, these reforms are the result of an insane operation of many who have not been able to equip our country with the necessary innovations in the institutional landscape of the state order. It is recalled that the 2000 reform, which was then adopted hastily in 2001 by the then centre-left majority in order to try to win over the electorate of the North League, which - it is recalled - was indeed at that time the bearer of the demands of institutional reform and among the first movements to express doubts precisely about it, i.e. a reform that has actually demonstrated its lack over the years, particularly in the various appeals submitted to the Constitutional Court. This shows how that reform had been poorly structured and probably poorly written. Indeed, the whole problem of the competence shared between the State and the Regions has given rise to considerable doubts of an interpretative nature, doubts which were then devolved to the Constitutional Court, thus confirming the incompleteness and darkness of the same regulatory dictation. Since that reform there has been no simplification or improvement and legislative intervention has not been sufficient to ensure greater involvement of the self-government and to achieve that path which, for years, we have considered necessary - as we now believe - towards a change in the federal sense of the state. But Italy absolutely needs change. It is essential, essential to reform the modernisation of public administration and to adapt it to the needs of society; to enhance territorial autonomy; to respond to the needs of business and citizens; to finally make this country competitive; to simplify compliance and adapt our legislation to that stepmother Europe that, as long as it exists and imposes its dictates, we will have to respect. But a great change was contained in that reform repeatedly cited by those who preceded me, in particular by Senator Calderoli and other colleagues of the Northern League Group. The 2005 reform was a courageous reform: a courageous reform that, however, did not see the other parliamentary groups, the other movements and political parties, who demonstrated an absolute blindness in the face of what could be a true reform. Now we are talking about so many issues that were included in the same reform. In that passage, which was well explained by the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, as well as by Senator Stucchi, it was seen that, practically, that choice (I refer to the inappropriate choice of rejecting that reform with the referendum) was actually the result of political considerations, without looking at the true goodness of the reform. Today, again, in this House, we have to talk about reforms: reforms that, however, have been transfused into the initial text of the Government, into a plan that we consider absolutely contrary to what should be a modernisation of the state. In fact, we have returned, almost anachronistically, to assign all those competences to the central state, strengthening the same. It has not been enough every year to demonstrate how this centralistic mode of operating in public administration and in governing the State has created a series of difficulties that - let us remember - were those difficulties that gave rise to the North League itself. In fact, the North League was born bringing those complaints and problems that concerned the management of a centralist state. Now, as if to say that we have run out of history, we have to go back. Fortunately, the work of the senators in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out what were the problems inherent in this structure. Not for nothing, fortunately, there was the amendment Finocchiaro-Calderoli that upset the original layout of the text proposed by the Government. Therefore, it has eliminated the competing competence and distributed the competences; exclusive competences are maintained in the regions. Perhaps this work has succeeded in overcoming, with regard to at least this part of the reform, the distortions inherent in the text of the Government. However, this does not mean that the work is done. On the contrary, as the rapporteur mentioned earlier, there are still persistent problems, and there is the possibility that this House will make further improvements to the text that came out of the Commission. It is enough just to recall that clause of supremacy - already the same name is clarifying - which would allow the State, however, to invoke to itself the legislative and regulatory power in some matters if certain requirements exist. Italy is a homeland of all leguleans and doctors of the law: it is very easy to work on these issues, on what to consider and whether or not the assumption exists, thus leaving the possibility that conflicts and interpretative difficulties are still open. However, what we would like to remember at the end of this whole debate on Title V is that we have to think about what it means to talk about Regions even today. Let us remember that Article 114 of the Constitution states precisely that our order is made by the State, the Regions and the Municipalities. In fact, it starts right from the municipalities, to get to the regions. Therefore, it is a matter of recognizing that the Regions ontologically exist; and they exist even before the ordering. The Region, in fact, is not a creation of the order, because the Region exists in our Country: there is a cultural value, traditions and a particular economic and social context that distinguish one Region from another. It is also what, in some ways, makes the strength, characteristic and beauty of Italy: it is precisely this differentiation. But it is a differentiation that requires a differentiated treatment: we understand it very well. For years we have been bearers of the northern issue and have repeatedly denounced the difficulties inherent in Italy of the coexistence of very different economic and social views. We confirm this still now: the Regions are different from each other. Those who live also the world of law well understand my reasoning: in my profession I discovered, precisely from my direct experience, how there is some difficulty in handling some issues in one Region instead of another. We therefore believe that we cannot be blind enough to think that the cultural difference, the way of thinking and the economic and social situation do not require a regulatory framework that takes account of this differentiation. In some ways the way of thinking about law in the Mediterranean is the result of a history that has distant origins: even only from the Giustinian Digest, in which we practically find our legal system, we see the difference between our way of seeing the regulatory system and that of the Anglo-Saxon countries. But we also think that the Mediterranean peoples are very different from the Anglo-Saxon peoples. They are different cultures and the law must comply. We also think that the right should be attached to a certain context. For this reason we believe that certain competences must remain with the Regions, because only in this way can one manage and govern in a wise way a particular territory. At the end of all the speeches that we can make we are now engaged in this sitting to the full to discuss reforms, but let us not fall into the error in which we fell in 2001. The haste is a bad councilwoman and this reform, like that of constitutional reforms in general, cannot only please the belly of the citizens. We have to realise that when we are sitting in this House we are not just pickers of votes, we are not simply those who have to get on a stage and find the topic that emotionally can please the citizen most. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Puglia]] We must also think that we are structuring a constitutional system, which is something fundamental: we will be able to work (we and our successors), in the parliamentary dialectic, within a structure that is the Constitution, the constitutional order. Senator Casson is right (I do not want to steal his words, but I can also draw a hint) when he says that this reform does not stop with this Government, but will survive ourselves, and the real effect of everything we will do - whether our voters like it or not - we will probably evaluate it in many years' time. And perhaps in many years we will come to say: in that place we could do better, but we didn't do it because at that time the political choice was the one that linked to an orientation. On the other hand, we have to get out of this in some ways, we cannot pursue a supposed consensus of the electorate. We must create good solutions for our fellow citizens. These are things that we are not doing, unfortunately, for other issues as well. You can't build legislation in an almost emotional sense, a regulation... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u70	You can finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u71	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Could I have 20 minutes, too, like Senator Casson? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your Group had asked for twelve for your intervention, but go on. We also take into account the most limited demands, but proceed. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I will steal a few seconds from my colleagues just to invite everyone to consider this reform with great prudence, thoughtfulness, intelligence and tertitude, because we need it. From this they are born, but the real reforms will be those that will concern the world of work and the world of enterprise for all our families and for our own future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u72	I remember every senator can intervene for 20 minutes. The Groups, in some cases, reported more limited time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u73	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with one of the epochal moments of a parliamentary term; imagine that in such a hurry - in a Chamber with such rarefied presences and with the times compressed, from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. - the Italian Constitution must be changed in itself symptomatic of something that does not add up. I will not linger to mention the constituent Fathers, nor to remember that they were directly elected by the Italian people, chosen from among the main protagonists of political and cultural life, and I do not offend anyone if I repeat that I do not see Calamandrei, I do not see Aldo Moro in this assembly or in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But those who are preparing to reform the Constitution in general silence (because also the vestals, the Zagrebelsky, the Flores d'Arcais, the Travaglio, those of the Forum of Assago, the red, orange, purple peoples have been lost in the street), in this muffled air, where the mass media, the main newspapers, the ancormans, the so-called intellectuals are silent only because this reform comes from a young man who gets the sympathy of the Italian people, seems to be here making a decree on Parmesan cheese or Parma ham. We are radically modifying Title V of the Constitution, and we are doing so - let us be careful - not with a law of parliamentary initiative but with a bill proposed by the Government, which is the denial itself of the most correct procedure to modify the rules of the game. It is as if the rules of the game changed the captain of the team who at that moment holds the ball. I don't want to bother Tacitus, but I can't help it. With the arcane expression imperii Tacito reminds us that power, when it wants to be absolute, never chooses public forms: when power wants to be damned, idolized by the crowd never makes the crowd participate itself, that is to say the rulers, of why the rulers change the rules. At the time there were the famous three capes: salus publica (I did this thing for the health of the people), bonum publicum (I did this thing for the good of the people), and (the most torn of the three capes, what the President of the Council Renzi wore), intent, good intentions. Arcana imperii, that is to say all that the people must not know. In fact, power is in the hands of a class of elected people, of an esoteric circle of people, the only ones who can know the secrets of power and thus exercise it. Mr President, I would also like to see a classic definition of liberalism (in a Chamber where everyone, either in a ruffle or in a raffle, refers to liberalism), that of Lord Acton, who stated that liberalism is essentially the limitation of powers; Karl Popper replied to it, arguing that it is not important in a society to know who is in charge, but to know how to control who is in charge. Thus, democracies in the developed countries are basically the means to change power and government without bloodshed. It doesn't matter who replaces the former Government, but it's important to know what the tools are for an opposition, a minority, to be able to subject those who govern to the tightest and most constant criticism and to the tightest and constant control. What do we do? We get rid of one of the two chambers on the basis of two false assumptions, which are then our Prime Minister's cheap propaganda. The first thing we give to drink to the Italian people, afflicted and distracted by its economic vicissitudes, is that we must eliminate the perfect bipartitism... I apologize, I meant perfect bicameralism: it is a lapsus linguae, because in the end we will verify that the suppression of one means the revival of the other. In the last legislature, a draft law was unanimously approved by this Assembly, presented by Senator Caliendo, in which it was planned to reduce Members by 200 units and by 150 units senators, dividing the competences by subjects between Chamber and Senate: it was over all the manfrina with which it is said to want to speed up and not to waste time! Today, with Articles 10 and 12 of the measure under consideration, there is still a sort of ping-pong, where it is not clear whether the Senate should say yes or no or ask for something in three weeks and, in turn, may propose legislative proposals to the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of matters. In addition, the following 30 days for promulgation should also be added to the 60 days mentioned by my colleague from the M5S Group. Therefore, a constitutional structure is changed without changing the state model. Someone, at every step, repeats to us the examples of France and Germany. It should not be forgotten, however, that in France the President of the Republic is directly elected by the citizens with his powers; moreover, in Germany, where the Senate is the Chamber of the Länder, there is a proportional system, and there is no Italicum or the "Porcellissimum" that you say you want, where we continue with the camarilles of party secretariats, not allowing the elector to choose the MP. Therefore, let us continue to cultivate a class of courtiers and rulers, who must - obedient - ensure that the prince or the holder of political power and party power is not disturbed, with the penalty of non-appointment. I would like to remind Luigi Sturzo when he admonished us in the book "Against Proportionality" saying that the ruling classes do not improve because of the electoral system: the ruling classes improve if they reform the parties by making them bodies governed by public law subject to third control of all the rules (not only those of the budgets), of all the rules of internal democracy that the parties freely intend to give themselves and that are codified in their statutes. We cannot understand, for the truth, what is behind this urgency, what horizons this haste wants to reach. Maybe taking the country to the elections next May? There is a whole conspiracy rhetoric that Senator Taverna, even if in a rather colorful way, foreshadowed: that of unexpressed and unconfirmed pacts. If, however, we approve this bill by 15 August, i.e. if the House approves it by 15 August, we will find ourselves reviewing it in the Senate for the second reading in January. I would like to see which Head of State - I would like to ask the constitutionalists and the learned colleagues who have prepared this text - when a state law has stated that the Senate is something different from what it is now, it should not invoke Article 88 of the Constitution and dissolve this House. Then we must speak clearly. I am not going to go into the substance of the measure, perhaps I will do so later because I have not quite understood the party to which I am writing what kind of determination it will take, even if I feel in the corridors a general disapproval of this text. Of course, however, the Reggian courtiers are afraid to say it in public; it's about the refurbishing and the comfortable scrounge, which they won't get back, among other things. But let us come to the text that is being proposed to us. It would be the regional councils that should elect the senators. Some say that it is through indirect democracy because democratically regional councillors are elected and the regional assembly, in turn, appoints senators. You have to tell me how many different electoral systems exist today in the Regions and if it is possible that in a Senate there can be members of the same that have a different source of democratic legitimacy! It is as if in Milan the election for the Chamber of Deputies did it in one way, in Sicily or in Calabria we did it in another. Why all this? If the Senate doesn't need it because Renzi is in a hurry, he has to be a reformer and he wants to take - alas - also Forza Italia in an unconscious drag motion and - I think - insulted, he has to explain why the Senate doesn't close it. What are these 100 people for? You should explain something else, which is then the punctum dolens of the whole thing. I would like to ask Senator Calderoli, Senator Finocchiaro and the other colleagues who have worked hard (I ask them in a translated way): who are you to remove the right of the Italian people to vote? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Scavone.]] Is there a number of rights that are not available to any authority, which are prior to the State itself? What democracy is this, in which a Chamber of Deputies is made up of nominations and the Senate of fourth-class regional councillors? Because those who are elected to the Region do not come here to waste time without office allowances, to be a tourist once or twice a week, because they aspire to do something else, because they have applied to be a regional advisor and not a senator! Who do you want me to aspire to this minimal role with respect to the architectures of the Regional Council, the Presidencies of the Commissions or the participants of the Regions themselves? Who's gonna get here? There will come the good-timer who must be satisfied because disillusioned by occupying the offices that are proper to regional architecture. When will they come here, because they are members of the regional assemblies, which obviously are subject to state measures, to the distribution of the National Health Fund, to the financing of many and many of those functions that are of regional competence but which are financed by the State, will they have the freedom of conscience and ideas not to subjugate, for whining or for convenience in relation to what suits their region, and to say no to the Government? Or will they be appointed to subjugate because they also have to subjugate in the role of regional councillor? I shall then begin with the conclusion. You see, there has also been a great deal of talk about the issue of immunity and I would like to say a word of clarity: either we restore Article 68 of the Constitution with no place to proceed, to prevent justice from being spectacularized and used by one part of the judiciary as a means of political struggle or it is better to remove it, because today the trials are not taking place in the classrooms: it is enough a warning of guarantee and you end up being hanged by my colleague Taverna as Jack the Ripper (and someone will have to explain to her that between the accused and the condemned there is a concept, fundamental in a democracy, which is called 'presumption of innocence'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to amend the Constitution because, says someone, we must save money. Well, I have had a brief report drawn up by the offices in charge, which I would ask you to listen for these few seconds: only the members of the Municipalities, Provinces and Regions amount to 10.450; paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 4 of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 fix in a number from three to five the members of the boards of directors; multiplying, making the average, four by 10.450 we have 51,000 people paid who live on politics on the boards of directors of these companies that, according to the Court of Auditors in 2012, have a deficit between credits and debts of about 50 billion euros per year. It's 50,000 clients and 50 billion euros of debt and you come here to say that the Senate and the senators must be reduced! That's a shame, it's a joke. Mr President, I would like to conclude by quoting an author who is dear to you: Ezra Pound, who said that if a man is not willing to fight for his own ideas, or he is worth nothing, or his own ideas are worth nothing. Colleagues, I know you and I hope that you valiate as men, but you cannot vote for this crap. [[Applause from the LAG and M5S groups and Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u75	The exact phrase used to say: If a man is not willing to risk for his own ideas.................................................................................. Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u76	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, if I were to listen to the indications that come from my cultural and political experience, spent in the commitment to the affirmation of the principles resulting from the anti-fascist struggle, the Resistance, the war of Liberation and the popular, reformist and socialist battles, written in our current Constitution, and concretized, not without contradictions, in these seventy years of the Republic, I should simply say that this reform, for the most part, is the denial of all this. However, I do not want to stop at this, but I would like to discuss the merits of the changes and proposals, and for these reasons I challenge the Government to demonstrate, with relevant reasoning and not with mandatory actions, the goodness of its proposals. However, I have an obligation to ask a first question. Apart from the content of the constitutional amendment, which is so broad and so incisive, perhaps it should not be excluded from the powers of a Parliament expressed by a highly majority electoral law and which has been made abundantly void by the Constitutional Court, the subject of a different legitimacy, perhaps through a confirmed referendum, of the changes that we will make, regardless of the majority, although qualified, which could result from it. In this respect, I have tabled an amendment, which I would ask my fellow Members to sign. However, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council, Matteo Renzi, in a few clear words, which I would like to reiterate in this House, because of the disarray of controversy which has been directed against the senators in recent days. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not need the office allowance, as I think you do not need it, but you do not use certain arguments to fuel a political polemic used only in authoritarian regimes by those in power, to strike those who democratically oppose the ideas they want to impose. The personal or ethical attack often conceals cultural and ideal weaknesses. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister Boschi (who I do not see), representatives of the Government, are to give our parliamentary system efficiency, speed of decision and a strong reduction in the costs of democratic representation. They are also to improve the overall governance of our country's public institutions. All this, however, cannot happen at the expense of respect for the fundamental principles enshrined in the first part of our Constitution. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am, like you, in favour of a substantial change in our system in some important points; that these changes are made quickly, but that speed does not in itself confirm the goodness of the reform that is being carried out, first and foremost when it comes to the Constitution. I believe, however, that we need to get to the substance of the proposed reform and I would therefore like to start from the considerations already discussed by a colleague, namely the question of costs. I believe that the leitmotif of this advertising campaign on the reform of our Constitution started from the need to reduce costs, at a time when the country is under extreme economic stress, in which families see its resources reduced, in which work is lacking and resources are lacking for adequate social policies. The costs: tell me why Members of the House of Deputies should not be reduced, but we accept the reduction of the senators of this House. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I am told that Parliament costs as a whole, that there are duplications of services; well, in recent years and also in recent months we have personally proposed amendments to the Regulations, legislative initiatives that went towards the unification of the services made available to Parliament itself, Chamber and Senate; we have proposed the untouchable reform of the autodichia to date, but we do not want to bring the regulation of the Chamber and Senate and the other constitutional bodies within a normal legislation that concerns public employment, because we do not want to accept that the supplies and everything concerning the normal physical functioning of these institutions follow the profiles of other public institutions. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Isn't that a saving? It is enough to make a small effort, to address the issue of individual costs within these institutions and others of lesser importance. The conflict of interest. It must be explained to me why in past years it was simply incompatible under the banking law the presence in any public company, and in particular national, compared to any public bank and today we propose the overlapping of the functions of regional advisor with those of senator and we also introduce the obligation of the presence of the regional senator councilor within the Senate. At this moment I do not quote the article for Father's sake, but if anyone wants to go and make an effort to read what is proposed to us, this is. How, then, is the regional function compatible, as a daily commitment of regional councillor, with the function at the same time, as a senator of the Republic? But we are talking about stronger, more concrete conflicts of interest: what will the Senate decide, what will the Senate discuss if not matters relating to the Regions, if not the distribution of resources relating to the Regions? So, ladies and gentlemen, is there not a small conflict of interest between those who have to decide in the national interest and those who decide on the basis of their regional political and electoral interest? To answer these questions in other countries there are clear rules that loosen the knot. Even the French, who in the past had allowed the presence of even important mayors within Parliament and the Government, today have re-believed. Where does the distribution and separation of administrative, executive, legislative and judicial powers end in the total confusion that we are proposing in this reform? Efficiency and speed of measures. Many of the issues are referred to changes to the parliamentary regulations of the House and Senate. I wonder whether it was necessary to call for a constitutional change in order to bring about an amendment to the Regulations which could be done in this House and in the other parallel in one day and which we have kept waiting for years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we need a constitutional change that changes anything else to justify better efficiency and faster decision-making, a better saving in decision-making? It is clear that many hours that are lost in unnecessary discussions cost the country, but it was enough to amend the Regulations, just as it was sufficient to modify them with regard to autodichia. I ask myself, and then I ask myself, what is the objective of this reform? Why does an important constitutional reform not touch the other vital elements of our country's democracy? I am referring to the reform of our judiciary, to issues relating to the mandatory prosecution (which is only fictional). Why is the approval of the long-awaited amendment of the law on the civil liability of magistrates delayed in these hours? Incidentally - I say this to the Undersecretary here present - in a single camera system, perfect or not perfect that it is, compared to what the House decided, at this high point (i.e. the only surviving Chamber), as we would face today the problem of direct revenge action, which comes to us from the other Chamber, compared to the indirect one towards the magistrate that I share and that I am ready to support in this House (if this House remains in a position to change what comes from the other Assembly)? These are small issues which are in the background of a change which, frankly, I try to interpret positively, and I am convinced that it needs major amendments. We have deleted the noun "Province" from our Constitution, but we have written "Metropolitan City", we propose to entrust the Regions with the task of defining the competences and the areas of the agencies of wide area. But perhaps it was not better to reflect on the Provinces, keep them, modify them, reduce them, restrict the scope of their competences rather than to do this chameleon operation that leads out the door to bring back the same issue from the window? Here, gentlemen of the government, colleagues who so enthusiastically support this reform, I would like you to convince me that with it you increase the capacity of government of our country and increase the spaces of democracy. I say this because I see the changes of the Constitutions - of course, they all have limits - moving only in this direction: increasing the spaces of democracy and the capacity to govern the problems of the country. So why should we increase the number of signatures to promote referendums? Does it explain to me why we need to increase the number of signatures in order to propose the laws of popular initiative? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Why should we foresee justice in the hands of the Regions? Some may have escaped, but in constitutional reform we are talking about justice of peace and proximity. This means that not only are we creating the conditions to have a differentiated health care between citizens living in Piedmont and others living in Calabria, but that we will also have a justice that, in the distance from the places of justice and in the difficulties of reaching these institutions in the territory, in some regions is a justice closer, faster, more efficient and in others a little less, because the regions are perhaps more careful, as often happens, on other issues. I, who feel like a senator of this Republic, although expressed by a Region that has made a big contribution to the unity of this country, enter into crisis and I would like the Government and friends of the majority to make me overcome this crisis through the adoption of many amendments that we have proposed, and that are not all referring to the issue that is becoming the center of the world: the direct election of the Senate. In other countries the direct election of the Senate is not there, but there are good institutions, and in particular there are good Senates, which are not fictions of parliamentary assemblies, but have precise rules and competences, clear popular mandates. Do not tell me that Italy is like Germany, because Italians are not like Germans and the Italian constitutional order, the fundamental one, is not like German. We have a different story from our German friends. Before I give my consent to this constitutional change, then I want to be convinced, and there can only be one way of doing so: thinking about the changes and proposing good solutions. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] , M5S and Misto-SEL and Senators Candiani and De Pin). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u77	Mr President, I must confess that I am speaking with a certain awe, because I am neither a jurist nor a constitutionalist, and I am aware of the complexity and delicacy of the matter. So I will make some premises, perhaps more challenging than the discussion on the microphysics of standards, and then a development. In recent days there has been a often distorted debate. Well, I want to say that, in my opinion, consent enables the government, not the exercise of command [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is no restraint, no sabotage, no ambush, but only the passion of those who, with a straight back and with a high head, defend their beliefs without looking for any gain; and it is also worth the civilization of language and the purification of the terms with which we value our arguments. Also because I do not hear in this Chamber the creator Spiritus of whom Benedict Croce spoke in a memorable speech on the occasion of the approval of the Constitution. A second premise. There is no doubt that this House has a formal legitimacy; in this respect the Constitutional Court has made this clear in an incontrovertible way. But, I wonder, we have proper ethical and political legitimacy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio]] , being all of us expression of an election-name through clearly defined unconstitutional norms? But there is a fundamental problem that intrigues me culturally, and it is the prophecy of Tocqueville. As you know, Tocqueville in America denounces the risks of mass democracy, of democracy that is at risk of paternal despotism and tyranny of the majority: that tyranny - he writes - which demeans men without tormenting them. In a passage that I judge of extraordinary foresight, Tocqueville writes: In politics (...), as in philosophy and religion, the intelligence of democratic peoples welcomes simple and general ideas. The complicated systems are repugnant to it and it willingly imagines a great nation in which citizens all resemble a single model and are directed by a single power. What does this far-sighted prophecy have to do with the problems we face today? Here lies the origin and the foundation of my fundamental disagreement with the text, not only with the rather grammatical one proposed by the Government, but also with that which is the result of the serious and committed work of the Commission. I was for some time vice president of the ANCI and therefore I think no one can accuse me of underestimating the perspective of a Senate of the Autonomouss, beyond the fact that, fortunately, the text has been corrected and today we are talking about Senate of the Republic. I believe that, in the face of the fold and the risks of an involution of the democratic rule, which belongs to the components of contemporary coexistence - precisely mass democracy - the great challenge we faced was to play on other ground, that is to say the very scope of a Senate of guarantees. My colleague said well before: democracy is also the theory and practice of the limitation of power. This is the problem of contemporary civilization. Moreover, in order to work towards a view of self-government, there are already institutions in our system for this purpose. There is another subject that worries me, which raises me questions of right: the link between representation and democracy because on the whole I see - without dramatizing - a risk of involution, where I see the exercise of an improper role on the part of the Government. It does not belong to the liberal-democratic tradition that the government is promoting constitutional laws, nor does it belong to the liberal-democratic tradition that the government imposes - because this is the true fact - a text on the Commission. Having said that, I am also entirely convinced of the need to overcome the bicameralism of equality and symmetricism. On the other hand, I am not convinced by the prospect of abolishing bicameralism tout court. How does this debate actually come about? It was born on the basis of a prospective distortion. On the one hand, there is the motivation for the cost reduction, which is certainly a problem; on the other hand, there is the motivation for the simplification of procedures, although from this point of view the statistical data that is reflected in the work of our Study Service tell us that the so-called shuttle is operating for 3.5% of legislative procedures and that the time for the conversion of decrees and the approval of the law rules lies perfectly in the European average. I would like to point out here that there is a further distortion which I would like to stress. As I said, I am not an expert on constitutional law and I find it difficult to get into the microphysics of rules, but I think I can say that the root of the crisis is parties and parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ours is a crisis of the institutions because it is a crisis of the modalities of formation of the will through the mediation of the parties. It is a crisis that affects the institutions, but it is a secondary crisis, which proceeds from the drift that the Republic of the parties has taken. I cannot pretend to myself, because intellectual honesty is not an option: the Commission has certainly made significant and positive changes and has acquired landmarks that I can certainly share. I would like to mention a few of these changes here. First of all, the reduction in the number of senators: it was a proposal which we had initially made with some of our colleagues and which had been looked at with suspicion: I note positively that this port has been reached. Among the amendments I would like to mention the embryo of a statute of opposition, the abolition of the CNEL and the determination of how referendums should be carried out, the validity of which must be related to the number of voters at the last elections. Let's try to think what evolution the history of Italy would have had - I don't think I exaggerate by saying the history of Italy - if these norms had been adopted previously. The history of Italy would change and the same identity and configuration of our political system would change. I recognise, as mayor, that, compared with an initial proposal for state-owned neo-centralisation and the reduction of regional self-government, it has certainly gained from the Commission's work the system and the role of self-government has been enhanced. All this satisfies me. There are, however, aspects in this text which I cannot agree with. First of all, the lack of election of senators. No one, even among my colleagues who are more calm and aware of my parliamentary group, has yet offered me an adequate answer to a question that I am raising: what would have prevented the people from deciding which regional advisers to act as senators at the time of their election? Moreover, how can a non-elective Senate be thought of in relation to a Senate of the Republic which has constitutional and electoral prerogatives? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This contrasts with any orientation of liberal democratic inspiration. Again, matters of bicameral interest: if it is true that there is a problem that is at the heart of the crisis of mass democracy - as Tocqueville taught us - why exclude from the competence and bicameral interest the great themes of religious freedom, bioethics, civil rights, the protection of linguistic minorities, that system of guarantees that constitutes the foundation of the rule and democratic principle? Let us try to imagine an elected majority with an ultra-majoritarian system which decides, on the one hand, the legitimacy of euthanasia for children and, on the other hand, the abolition tout court of Law No 194, depending on political orientations. Is it conceivable that there is no institution in our system that functions on the basis of proportional election in terms of guarantee and balance? Moreover, the election of the President of the Republic is a crucial issue, taking into account the creeping presidentialism that has characterized the last years of the affair of our Parliament. If we do not expand the audience of the great electorate or reduce the number of parliamentarians, we come to the paradox of a party secretary - today of my party, tomorrow of another party - who is also President of the Council and to some extent has the possibility of election of the President of the Republic, who then has to choose a significant proportion of judges of the Constitutional Court. The number of Members: what prevents a number of Members from being present in the European average? For Italy there would be about 500 Members. What is the reason for this? I understand the problems of practical usefulness for this legislative process to be completed, but what does it prevent in principle from addressing this problem, as well as the problem of immunity which must be traced back to the issue of insinability? And again, I quote the way in which regional councillors are elected, where the theme of an exorbitant presence of parties returns. It is time to give back to politics its ambition and its dignity and it is time - as one of my masters, Mino Martinazzoli, said - to return the parties to their role, beyond any exorbitant invasion of the field. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]] After all, if anyone had proposed - but I see that a colleague who now stands up to the role of a great inquisitor had done so - the Bundesrat, I was very ready to support it. In France the electoral audience is about 195,000 voters and French law now makes incompatible the role of parliamentary, mayor and regional exponent. Finally, the last question: the link between Italicum and Senate reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a political link, it is a constitutional link, it is a legal link, because, even more so, the Senate of Guarantees is an indisputable requirement in the presence of a majority law which, in its present state, even assigns 18% to those who obtain 37%, that is, more than half of the consents obtained. I believe that those I support are legitimate questions. Finally, my political formation has rarely led me to oppose or to express dissent or contrast with my party's positions. This is not an easy problem for me to solve, but to a journalist who asked me the other day what is the answer I give to the fact that, with this position, I end my political career, I said that I found the answer (I am a practicing Catholic) in the letter of St Paul to Timothy of the liturgy last week: I fought the good battle, I finished the race but, dear God, I kept the faith. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and the Senators Albano, Dirindin and Pelino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u78	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u79	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow Senators, we are discussing a massive constitutional reform without an extensive debate taking place in the country; Indeed, almost to take advantage of the fact that, between mid-July and mid-August, Italians are notoriously distracted and unwilling to follow our parliamentary work. It seems a well-established practice in our country to dismiss the worst reforms in this period: I dare say it is an all-national tradition. Of course, the voting process will go far beyond August, as it is a constitutional law. But this first vote will strongly mark its next path. The size of the majority that will - if it goes there - be formed on this draft law cannot fail to have consequences in terms of subsequent parliamentary passages. So there was not, as I said, a sufficient debate in the country on the substance of the content of this reform, but some key words were passed very well. Too bad they're all wrong. On today's Republic, just to quote a daily newspaper, Ilvo Diamanti said: Sure, today the reform (better, the abolition) of the Senate will arrive, precisely, in Senate waiting for a first vote. The abolition? What abolition? But let us also leave this daily newspaper which, at least formally, is not yet the official voice of this Government. Let us see, for example, the tweet of the President-in-Office of the Council of 18 January last, in which he said: Get the senators out of here. If this provision is closed, Italy #changes the other way around. Now, off with the senators, it means closing the Senate, that is, repealing it. But, then, of the two l'one: or I understood nothing and this reform that we are here to discuss is that of the repeal of the Senate, just as it was made to believe the Italians and how it continues to make Italian citizens believe, or the Italians are made to believe one thing and here it is made a completely different one: "via the senators" - as the President of the Council writes - does not mean at all that the current senators, democratically elected, are replaced with other senators appointed by the parties, as provided for by this reform. If Renzi had written "via" the elected senators, ahead with those appointed" the citizens would have had a representation of the reform certainly more likely, but in that case they would certainly not have supported it. However, in its sense of eliminating the Senate, it was a hypothesis that would have found a broad and cross-cutting political convergence in this House, but not this reform that simply replaces elected senators with appointed senators, because they are more controllable. There is another misconception in the country that the savings for the state's coffers, resulting from the implementation of this reform, would be huge, represented in over a billion euros. Of course, this is a false conviction: the entire budget of the Senate, which has been mentioned several times, is known to be about 500 million euros and is largely composed of fixed costs, compared to which neither Renzi nor any representative of the Government or majority groups has ever spent a word: it is the salaries of staff, pensions and the maintenance of the buildings, to mention the most important items. So I ask myself and ask you: to whom is it agreed to spread these false beliefs, if not to those forces, obvious or occult, who want this reform at all costs? Falsity and misinformation come to this day. Let me give you another example, just one of the many, which is an exemplary article in one of the national newspapers of greatest circulation of not more than a few days ago: praising, once again, the reform of the government, has found nothing better to do than to indicate, in savings account on allowances and reimbursements to the senators, an expected savings of 500 million euros. The title was this: The Italians will no longer vote for the Senate. 500 million less allowances. Now, apart from the fact that the reimbursement of expenses will also be provided for future senators appointed by the parties, it is clear that the published figure deviates by at least 450 million euros from reality. I would ask the Presidency, if possible, to be able to attach the article to the report of the sitting, or at least its references, as a splendid example of italic disinformation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to thank the President for his positive response to my request. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[A summary of the President's agreement.]] The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that if people had been told the truth they would have understood that the mountain of this reform gave birth to a mouse. The replacement of an elective Senate with another appointed by the policy will, if it is okay, lead to savings for the community of 50 million euros. This awareness would be enough on its own to ridicule those who presented this reform as a model to save money. A saving of 50 million euros represents, to understand us, less than a fortieth of what this same majority has given to the operators of the slot machines thanks to the tomb condon of no more than a few months ago. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fifty million euros represent less than one hundred and fiftyth of the gift made to the banks with the decree IMU-Bankitalia [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and even represent less than a thousandth of the expenditure expected for the purchase and maintenance of the F35. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, if we persist as a country in remaining at the last places in the world rankings on press freedom there will be a reason. The objective of pursuing a significant reduction in costs, in the Senate as in the other House, would be much easier and immediately reachable without having to compromise on the level of political representation and therefore more generally without having to give up a slice of democracy. It would be sufficient for all the parliamentary groups to adopt virtuous behaviors such as a 50% reduction in competences, public expenditure reporting, the waiver of electoral contributions, the waiver of the end-of-term allowance, the return of allowances paid and not used. These simple innovations would be enough to guarantee a saving for the state of about 500 million euros: this time it would be real money and not invented. It can be done and we can prove it, because we in the 5 Star Movement are already doing it. So there are two different visions of Italy in this House: Renzi's vision is to take away, wherever possible, slices of sovereignty from the citizens, as if they were the cause of the state of crisis in our country. This vision would like to strengthen the power of the parties and in particular of the secretary of the relative majority party, but also to reduce the role and prerogatives of Parliament for the benefit of the powers and prerogatives of the government. Another view, speculating, would instead want the exact opposite: it considers the parties the main ones responsible for this economic, political and social disaster; it calls for greater participation of citizens in the political life of the country; it wants to strengthen the powers and prerogatives of the main institution that represents them, namely Parliament, calling for a more incisive action of Parliament's control over the Government and, on the contrary, a substantial reduction of powers, powers and funding to parties. For this reason, many issues, such as the direct election of new members of the Senate, have raised positions that are difficult to reconcile. For this reason, a number of dissident MEPs, members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have been forcibly expelled by using a procedure of dubious legitimacy in order to impose the approval of this constitutional bill on the Commission. It is therefore particularly urgent to judge the legitimacy of these extromissions, which are considered to be detrimental to Article 67 of the Constitution. If the extromissions were to be declared unlawful, what fate would it have to reserve for the measures adopted in the meantime by an illegitimately constituted Commission? It has been stated that this reform aims at overcoming the perfect bicameralism and replacing the Senate of the Republic with a new Senate of the Autonomous States. This innovation would like to give greater effectiveness and efficiency to the legislative machinery. But to the precise and precise listing of the reasons why the objectives announced will not be grasped at all, the usual shredded rhetoric of reforms that are good in themselves, in a country like Italy that opposes every change has been opposed (in clear absence of arguments). Now, we all agree that our country needs major reforms. I am thinking in particular of the reforms needed to restart the economy according to the most modern standards of sustainability, I am thinking of the emergency work, of a reform of justice brought to its knees for too long by Silvio Berlusconi, I am thinking of new rules for a new ethic of politics, today increasingly absent at all levels. But the reform we are debating is profoundly wrong, based on incorrect or even false motives. It represents for Italian citizens the most classic of the passages from the pot to the fire, promoting the substitution of one elective political class with another more difficult to sanction, as it is released from the judgment of the popular vote. A underlying ethical motivation for the reform also appears to be totally unfounded: just think that the Regional Councils in which the suspects sit are currently 18 out of 20. In recent years in the Regions we have seen a rate of public morality of almost zero, I would say sadly in line with the national average! Not to mention that the new Senate would be based precisely on the principle of the accumulation of offices, offices and armchairs, while currently the incompatible senator must opt for one of his posts and then remove the cause of his incompatibility. It would be precisely the regrettable simultaneous presence in several armchairs the essential and essential element of the senator. Far from reality, it also seems to be the alleged increase in the effectiveness and efficiency of the legislative process introduced by the reform. If the current system has extended evidence of the fact that, with the existence of political will, the times of dismissal of a bill can be only a few days (as in the case of the Alfano praise, unconstitutional, but dismissed by the Parliament in record time), the new system is announced, as far as possible, even more cocky and marked by new complex relations between the two rooms, by the result easily predictable in terms of its efficiency and its effectiveness. With the new Article 70 of the Constitution, the Senate will be able to continue, for example, to intervene on all acts and laws. There is no precise demarcation of subjects, unlike what happens in other countries with a bicameral system that clearly differentiates skills, in order to avoid unnecessary overlaps. In short, the legislative process, rather than being efficient, is further slowed down. It is sufficient that one third of the members of the Senate are of different political colors than the majority present in the House so that they can request that all - and I stress all - laws be discussed in the Senate, obviously for obstructive purposes, thus slowing down the promulgation of all measures for at least two months. The lowest common denominator of this reform project is the imbalance of the powers of the state, all to the benefit of the executive power. On the contrary, the latter should withdraw, in order to allow the legislative power to regain its own space, reserved for it by the Constitution. In terms of ethics, with a view to a profound reform of the system, we should rather have assessed the introduction into our country's legal system of the recall mechanism, i.e. the possibility for voters to request the early termination of the electoral mandate of their representatives, when they had been guilty of conduct incompatible with the maintenance of their functions. Predictably, the introduction of this institute would substantially change the composition of Parliament. Whole political groups formed in disarray to the popular will manifested in the elections, such as the Autonomous and Freedom Group and also the New Right Centre itself, would never have been born or could be quickly disconfessed by the voters. If that were not the case, they would acquire, thanks to the presence of the institute of the recall, a political dignity that does not belong to them at present, not having arrived in Parliament - as political groups - by virtue of an electoral competition. Another point to make concerns the instruments of direct democracy such as the referendum without quorum, the overcoming of the repealing referendum and the bill of popular initiative. A greater participation of citizens in the democratic life of our country, thanks to these institutions, should be unanimously desired by all political forces. In this measure, however, there is a dangerous opposite trend, represented by the considerable increase in the signatures needed both for the referendum and for the filing of draft laws of popular initiative. It is therefore limited rather than encouraged the direct access of citizens to politics. Bicameralism is a guarantee of greater transparency of parliamentary work and greater thoughtfulness of choices. Let us think, for example, of the unfortunate approval of the House only a few days ago of the amendment which introduces the direct responsibility of the magistrates. Premier Renzi was quick to say that there is no need to worry and that it is not a problem, as the matter will be settled in the Senate. Of course, but did you think that, precisely as a result of your reform, the Senate's intervention will no longer be possible? Our bicameralism could easily be lightened by significantly reducing the total number of MPs, Chamber and Senate, in order to meet the sacrosanct need to reduce the costs of politics, but without jeopardising the very essence of the democratic process of forming laws in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, it is paradoxical that this very Parliament, which is called upon to make such an important choice of constitutional reform, is essentially a Parliament with limited legitimacy because of an electoral law which is known to be unconstitutional in many respects. Some final considerations. The prediction of five senators appointed by the Head of State struggles to find some logic, also in view of the many polemics raised by almost all the Groups on the occasion of the last nomination of senators for life. The reform of the Parliament under discussion was proposed and, given the tone, I would say imposed by the Government. The fact that in a first phase it had to be approved even by 25 May, that is, in time for the electoral deadline, shows the instrumental finalization of this initiative freed from any serious and coherent process and linked essentially to criteria of political opportunity. It has been said that the current Italian bicameralism is a unique that must be overcome. All right. But if we overcome it with this reform we replace a unicum with a new unicum, falling into the same mistake, this time much more difficult to justify. With this reform the so-called guillotine is constitutionalized, with blocked vote and without amendments, with vote item by article. It will be enough for the majority forces to waste a little time in order to obtain the very little flattering result of gagging oppositions and preventing the submission and voting of their amendments. I conclude with Senator Zanda's words on the occasion of the examination of constitutional reform during the Berlusconi Government in 2005, words still current, albeit under reversed political conditions: Beyond the natural differences between the political groups, it would have been necessary for the majority to have sought first of all in the work of revising the Constitution the unity of Parliament on some shared values and on the fundamental rules of public life. I believe that nothing more harms the future of the country than the breaking of the principles on which our democratic coexistence rests. There is much uncertainty, perhaps even fear, in Italian society. Citizens need to recover with politics a stronger relationship, consisting of content and not just image, ideals and not just marketing, seriousness and stability and not uncertainty and precariousness. Senator Zanda, I reminded you of your thought that it's mine, too. Let us now go, if it is consistent, to remind its Secretary of the Democratic Party! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u80	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there are many points that can be made to the draft constitutional reform proposed by the President of the Council, Mr Renzi. First of all, as Professor Massimo Villone has observed, it is based on a series of completely unfounded assumptions. It is false that bicameralism, as it has been structured, causes particular delays in legislative activity. The simple consultation of the online site of the Senate shows that the average parliamentary process of conversion into law of a decree is two weeks, without considering that the decree-laws proposed by the Government immediately enter into force. These are times that are compatible with those of the other European Parliaments. It is false that the abolition of the elective Senate leads to considerable cost savings, since the part devoted to the salaries of parliamentarians is minimal compared to other items of expenditure that cannot be compressed (property, services, staff). It is false that the new Senate can exercise more effectively the functions of control towards the Government. On the contrary, because it will be largely composed of people whose administrative career depends precisely on government funding. Any real dispute with the Executive will be very unlikely. Finally, it is false that the reform in the pipeline aligns us with the other European countries in which a high House, totally or partially elected, is the prevailing rule. If we then go into the substance of the measure, we need to note a number of inconsistencies. I'm just going to list the most obvious ones. The powers of the new Senate are contradictory: on the one hand, it cannot give confidence to the Government or intervene in a binding way on spending laws, but it will have a say in constitutional reforms and the election of the President of the Republic. The new Senate will consist of a local political class that is no less discredited than the national one. I come from a region still shocked by the story of the MOSE, which has involved mayors and regional councillors, precisely the categories destined to settle in the new organism where, moreover, they will enjoy an immunity that risks to configure itself as a gigantic sanatoria against the local rubies. With the new provisions, the balance of powers, typical of democratic regimes, will be greatly reduced. The majority (or perhaps the Prime Minister) will have the opportunity to choose the President of the Republic and five judges of the Constitutional Court, who with the five presidential nominations make two thirds of the college, thus allowing the Executive to do what it wants to do with the Constitution. The presence of a House elected without preference and a Senate of second election, combined with the increase to 800,000 signatures to request a referendum and to 250,000 for proposals of law of popular initiative, will make it even more difficult for the citizen to influence the decisions taken in the Palace. I could go on for a long time, but I will not do so either because it has been discussed a great deal in the Commission's work or because the underlying flaw in this reform proposal is not so much in this or that particular contradiction, but it is of a methodological nature. It is part of the constitutional reforms that have been promoted over the last two decades. All of them - the successful ones and the failed ones, the ones wanted by the center-right and those wanted by the center-left - united by the intention to favor the fortunes of this or that party, this or that political personality, in the absence of any vision of the long-term destinies of our country. If we look, instead, at the Constitution of 1947, we realize that it was designed to last over time. It is certainly the result of a compromise between the most influential political forces at the time (Catholics, Marxists and Actionists). The men who wrote it, however, did not aim at their re-election, but at creating the framework and the ground within which political activity was to be carried out in the following decades. Hence, I believe, the impression of rigour and seriousness which still conveys today the reading of our Constitutional Charter. Some points may be overcome, yet it is evident that the constituents were not animated by petty shop interests. Even when - unfortunately most of the time - constitutional principles have been disregarded, our Charter has maintained a very high moral value over the decades. His very presence indicates that Italy is not a country condemned to be led by inadequate and irresponsible ruling classes. At a dramatic moment like the post-war period, the Italians knew how to bring out their best virtues and expressed a serious and prepared political staff, who proved to be up to the serious tasks they had before them. Unfortunately, this seriousness and this level of awareness have completely failed in recent attempts at constitutional reform. What a difference between the passionate discussions of our constituents and the petty and interested way in which the latest reforms have been promoted! There are countless examples of this. Let's think of the sudden end of the Bicameral, when Berlusconi withdrew at the last moment from an agreement that seemed now signed. Or the introduction, in 2001, at the end of the parliamentary term, probably for electoral reasons, of the reform of Title V, which should have led to greater decentralisation and instead caused an increase in costs and bureaucracy. Or even the reforms desired by the center-right and fortunately rejected in a referendum: according to the Italian tradition for which everything is resolved to tarallucci and wine, they were announced after a lunch to the canederli of the so-called essays of the House of Freedom. Not to mention the recent introduction, almost unanimously, of the balance of the budget in the Constitution: an unholy decision, of which fathers already begin to lack and which, if really applied, will result in a fearful backwardness of the living conditions of the popular classes. All these initiatives are irremediably marked by improvisation. There is in them a hint of subterfuge, of deception, of petty and interested calculation, of play of the bussolotti from the village fair, at least how much, in the paper of 1947, there was a sense of seriousness and rigor. In 1947 the contrasts between the various political forces were harsh and harsh. However, they were determined by a different ideal view of the country's destinies. Today everything seems to be playing on the petty calculation of immediate interests. To use the terminology that Gennaro Sasso used with regard to Machiavelli and his thought, in 1947 we moved in a universe "principesco" where politics, even in the dramatic hardness of the conflict, had at heart the collective good; in recent decades, instead, we moved in the universe "mandragolesco," where what counts is only the particular profit. Is it an exception, in this context, to the reform proposed by President Renzi and which finds its strength in the abolition of the elective Senate? The answer can only be negative. It is evident that opportunism pushes for such a rush to reform. At the moment, the easiest way to get consensus is to present itself as champions of political cost cuts. The cancellation of the elective Senate allows you to get a cheap popularity. In this regard, I would like to make a few comments. I would like to point out that, as my hopes of re-election are almost the same as zero, I have no material interests at stake. When I read the book of Stella and Rizzo, "La casta" in 2008, I was very impressed and scandalized by the data and arguments of the two journalists. I have partly changed my attitude today. I am inclined to believe that, in this particular historical moment, the real danger is not so much the costs of politics, but the possibility that politics will be cancelled. This will create - and this has already happened in many respects - a post-democratic vacuum in which only demagogies and qualunquism can flourish and in which, above all, supranational financial powers will be free. Of course, the costs of politics must be limited and it is possible to do so in many ways, from the reduction of Members' salaries, to the reduction of electoral refunds, to the amalgamation of the smaller municipalities. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I have 20 minutes to speak. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u82	You can speak for 20 minutes, Senator De Pin, but your group had signed you up to speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u83	[[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]] DE PIN (Misto-ILC). Certainly the costs of politics must be limited, as I said. Many other things could be done and not because these cuts have an effective impact on the financial conditions of the country, but because it is necessary to give a signal of austerity when the Italians are forced to pull the belt. The risk, however, is that, with the excuse of the cost cuts of politics, ordinary citizens are denied the already scarce possibilities to intervene in the decision-making processes. But how negative all this is, unfortunately, you only notice at games made. Even in these last reforms, therefore, a great deal of improvisation can be recognized. The fact, however, that we move in a disorderly way, with a lack of typically Italian design, does not mean that these initiatives must be taken under the leg. They too, in fact, obey, although confused and probably unaware - hopefully - a project, which is unfortunately not only Italian. Neoliberal rationality, which is imposed in the world, subverts the systems of traditional liberalism. At the basis of neoliberal reasoning, the market is not, contrary to what is believed, a natural fact. It is a built reality that requires the direct intervention of the State. Its task is to create the conditions best suited to free competition and to ensure that all economic players respect them. In order for the State to be able to fulfil its role at its best, it itself must comply with the rules of competition, become a company governed by private law and behave like a company. The universalisation of the principle of competition thus goes beyond the confines of the State and is also imposed on individuals, who are invited to be entrepreneurs of themselves. Neoliberalism has now become the dominant ideology of our society. It transcends the strictly economic sphere and influences, in an ever more stringent way, public life, the vision of the world, the behaviour of individuals. On a purely political level, it subverts the forms of traditional liberal democracy. In fact, neoliberal rationality tends to contract the area of public law in favour of private law; to conceive public action according to the criteria of profitability and productivity (and certainly not according to those of the redistribution of income); to strengthen the executive power over the legislative one; to promote a consumer citizen who is invited to choose between different political offers, in the same way as he could choose between different goods at the supermarket. This also has constitutional consequences. The principles of the anti-fascist constitution are being called into question. Everywhere the areas of the "State of exception" tend to expand, which is now becoming the natural instrument of government of many countries, starting from the United States, where anti-terrorism legislation has abruptly put an end to a tradition of strict respect for individual rights. Everywhere absolutely natural democratic instruments can be revoked at any moment: in Greece the request for a referendum to ask the people for the consent to a very harsh economic maneuver has caused the sudden fall of the Papandreou Government and its replacement with a Ministry of Commissariat by the troika. Everywhere the executive power tends to look with insufferance at the mediations of the parliamentary dialectic. Everywhere leaders claim to impose themselves outside of any constitutional mediation. Using the terms of Roman law we could say that the auctoritas, that is, the charism of politicians who turn directly to the people, presenting themselves as bearers of saving plans, has the upper hand over the potestas, that is, the power governed by legal norms. This trend, as I said, is everywhere perceptible and in Italy assumes (though confusedly) the forms of the current constitutional reform project. The abolition of the elective Senate, combined with an electoral law in which an abnormal majority prize is associated with an equally abnormal barrier threshold, is bound to lead to a drastic fall in the levels of democracy. Let it be clear, I am not accusing President Renzi of being a dictator; I do not even want to think that this acceleration is functional to the plan to go to rapid early elections, to secure a large majority and finally, obtained full control of Parliament, to impose on the country the terrible sacrifices that are demanded by the European oligarchies. I do not want to think so, because if that were true, it would be a project that would have little precedent in national history due to cynicism and irresponsibility. What I think it is necessary to denounce is a process, not linked to a man, but of a general nature, of progressive erosion of democracy. As far as I am concerned, I think that our Constitutional Charter, like all human things, is not something untouchable. She is the daughter of a world, based on Fordism and Keynesian compromise, which is very different from ours. I have not lost hope that a future European Constitution will integrate the immortal principles of 1947 with the new problems of the contemporary world: common goods, the rights of migrants, economic democracy, issues related to the right of citizenship and the dissemination of the Network. I believe that future generations of democrats will have to fight on this front. It is up to us to preserve what our Fathers have left us, tearing away with very hard sacrifices rights that are now at risk of being erased in general indifference. And if our attempts were to be unsuccessful, it is still necessary that these measures should not be adopted by two thirds of the votes and that they should be examined by the popular referendum. In Ireland, a measure very similar to what we are discussing was unexpectedly rejected by the electorate. Even in that country the abolition of the Senate was presented as a way to reduce the costs of the institutions. The oppositions set up their referendum campaign emphasizing that in this way the spaces of democratic participation were diminished and attention was diverted from the real problems (of an economic nature) of the country. It is not excluded that something similar can happen in Italy too. In any case, it is necessary to have respect for the people (and I stress respect). Measures of this nature cannot be the result of secret agreements between people, but they must necessarily pass to the judgment of the Italians. Preventing this would be unforgivable. For these reasons, too, I now declare my vote against the abolition of the elective Senate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u84	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u85	Mr President, seven years ago, when the 5 Star Movement did not exist yet, I was one of those citizens who realized your self-referentiality. Now that I'm in here I can see even more: you haven't done anything in a year and a half for the citizens; nothing, just decrees that bring so much money to very few people near you. Seven years ago, the citizens proposed the epochal reform to you. An epochal reform that had three points: a maximum of two electoral mandates (you don't have to spend a life in here); the restoration of preferences (not party licking in here) and the prediction that no condemned person could sit in Parliament (only honest representatives of the people and not usual delinquents). This proposed 350,000 citizens in one day; we were not able to get you to discuss this law here either: that was the reform to be implemented. You have done nothing about this, but you are working hard, and even so, to ensure that your local administrators, who are mostly investigated (people who are criminals in local authorities), find shelter and immunity in this House; you are working on this, Minister Boschi, and you are working on a dictatorial reform. It is not enough for you to have asked thirteen questions of trust, if I am not mistaken, on fifteen decrees; the dictatorship is already in place. But it's better to be safer, isn't it? Senators, if you listen, be proud for once, at least today, or stay like this, prone button crushers at 14,000 euros per month: but it's better this second option, it's more comfortable. But above all, journalists, I consider you to be the first culprits: be proud at least today to tell the truth [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] Otherwise you also remain humble servants and continue to spread the dictates of others; but yes, even in this case better this second option, it is much more comfortable. To change it takes honesty, honesty towards citizens who unfortunately have no means in Italy to know the truth, no one. What I read to you comes from them, from the citizens, Francesco Manna and others: free citizens. Today we of the 5 Star Movement are called to offer a new proof of pride: it is a duty for us to make Italians understand that the Constitution, for the umpteenth time, is in danger. As usual, summer comes and the parties try: it happened last year in the House with the attack on article 138, but on that occasion the Movement managed to avoid the worst; a feat that I also claim from the Senate with pride. The assault on the Constitution is repeated again this year and you can be sure that this time too we will defend it in the interest of all Italians. Today the Senate is not faced with any reform: this is the reform. The Boschi bill is not one of the many games to play: this is about rewriting the rules of the game, radically changing the Constitution and changing our state form. For us citizens it is inevitable to be perplexed. There is already an anomaly at the start: the government, not Parliament, is in charge of the constitutional revision. It is precisely this Parliament that claims to be the protagonist of an institutional change of this historical significance; this very Parliament on which the shadow of the Porcellum weighs, judged unconstitutional by the Council for many reasons. While we in this building, further and further away from reality, are discussing constitutional reforms with extreme focus, a couple of questions come to me: are these constitutional reforms designed for the good of the citizens or is their aim to allow the parties to increase and preserve their power better? These reforms serve the Italian people or the personal ambitions of "Mento a terzi" (Mento a terzi) as I call Renzi [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] who dreams of becoming a very powerful Premier and above all immovable. I remind myself and everyone that in the 2013 general election, if it had not been for the unconstitutionality of Porcellum, today in Parliament we would have a much larger pentastellated representation, a real representation of the country. That is why it is not conceivable that constitutional reforms should be carried out without us, without the citizens. The Constitution is a common good, and it cannot be overwhelmed by the use and consumption of a dark pact between Renzi and Berlusconi, two professional liars, ignoring the millions of citizens who voted for the 5 Star Movement. It would be unfair to everyone and to democracy. The 5 Star Movement proves every day that it does not want to stand by, that it is not an opposition that always says no to everything, that it wants to discuss the substance of the issues, point by point and constructively. For us of course it has always been so and you know this: but today also some more Italian knows it. It is time that journalists' conscience also woke up. Now you have no alibi. It is time for you of the PD to choose, in front of all the citizens, if you want to change Italy in the light of the sun with us or if you prefer to do it behind closed doors with the criminal, that is, a gentleman definitively condemned for tax fraud and kicked out of the Senate, a gentleman who in days could be confirmed a conviction for child prostitution and concussion, in short, a habitual criminal. Your eagerness to make haste seems dictated precisely by the judicial times of "Don Silvio." In a nutshell, you want to take this vote home to the Senate before next July 18, before the new sentence. It's depressing that Italy still has to be behind this gentleman's trials. The PD has demanded from us a written document to grant a second meeting on the electoral law. Renzi said: "It's not a joke: it's the rules." But then why doesn't this Mr. Renzi, not only to us but also to you, who I think are unaware of, kindly send us a link with the written documents of the meetings between him, Berlusconi and Verdini? We're not kidding. It's the rules. But do you PD really want to be relegated to humble button crushers? Mr Albano (PD). But think for yourself! CASTALDI (M5S). No one has seen these documents, as no one has seen the streaming of the meetings between Renzi, Berlusconi and Verdini. The Nazarene pact doesn't know exactly what it is, and even between you PD there is someone who asks. Forgive us, but then we could imagine that Berlusconi asked Renzi, in exchange for the support on the reforms, something that is better not to let people know; something like a safe conduct, like a grace from the next President of the Republic. Forgive us if we think of certain evils, but it is stronger than us, in the absence of that transparency which is indispensable for PD only to dialogue with us. You can't reform the Constitution in the dark. We cannot table three amendments in the evening to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as happened on 8 July, and set for 9 a.m. the day after the deadline for submitting sub-amendments. We can't be hasty and sloppy. We repeat, we are not talking about any draft law, but about a reform with irreversible effects. Your idea of state form is vertical, or rather pyramidal, more like a new feudalism than a liberal democracy. Your idea of changing the country does not better distribute powers, but rather concentrates them in the hands of a few party leaders, not to mention one man in command. Let us start from the fact that Italicum, an electoral law closely linked to constitutional reforms, balances the coincidence between executive power and legislative power. Unfortunately, this situation has already been effective, because for years Parliament has not legislated, crushed by the various successive governments (Berlusconi, Monti, Letta, Renzi), all in love with the abused issues of trust and the decree of urgency. The new Senate cannot in any way balance the power of the House, since it does not vote for trust and does not express binding opinions on laws, except for constitutional ones. At this point we are in a scenario in which a single party determines Premier and Government monocolor, which have in their hands, both the executive and the legislative power. But this is not the end: a single party will in fact be able to choose the President of the Republic, who will look more like a man of trust of the Premier than a guarantor of the Constitution. It is enough to wait for the ninth vote, in which the absolute majority is sufficient, and the only party that dominates the House will, in practice, be able to choose the President of the Republic on its own. We remind you that the role of the opposition is to control and dialogue with the action of the parliamentary majority and the Government. For you, however, opposition is only a nuisance, to be silenced immediately. After having cleared the "gigliottina" in the Chamber with the Boldrini, you even want to insert it into the Constitution, humiliating more and more the role of an opposition already perennially unheard. Governance does not mean having absolute power: citizens who have voted for opposition forces have the right to be represented in Parliament, effectively and not only formally. One of the fundamental differences between a liberal democracy and an authoritarian regime is precisely respect for minorities and different ideas. But it's not enough. Your reforms also invade the judiciary, taking control of the two-thirds of the Constitutional Court: five out of 15 members will be appointed by the Government; another five by a man of trust in the Government, that is, by the type of President of the Republic that you would like. Title V follows the logic of government centralization of powers. There is no serious remedy to the loss of competence that the regions would suffer. The State will be the sole decision-maker of the destiny of the local order, of the cultural and landscape goods, of the general norms on the cultural activities, of the tourism, of the production, of the transport, of the national distribution of the energy, of the general norms on the government of the territory and of the strategic infrastructures, only to give some examples. The reason behind the proposal is to prevent the regions from being able to legislate on these matters, with good peace of certain guarantees that the Constitutional Court had identified precisely in favour of territorial autonomy. Just think about the energy matter. Although the constitutional reform of 2001 attributed energy to the shared competence of the State and the Region, the Constitutional Court has long argued that the State can regulate the matter in its entirety, in the presence of interests of a unitary nature, but provided that the Regions are allowed to express themselves on the energy choices made in Rome through the instrument of the understanding. What the Government actually intends to do is to weaken the role that territorial autonomy enjoys within the constitutional system of the Republic. No one seems to wonder why our Constitution intended to inform the structure of the Republic of the principle of political-institutional decentralisation. Carlo Esposito, an eminent teacher of constitutional law, pronounced these words in 1954: The coexistence in the State of these centres of territorial life does not constitute, in our Constitution, a mere legal-administrative expedient or a useful instrument of good legislation and administration. They have a profound impact on the internal structure of the State and constitute an exercise, expression, way of being, guarantee of democracy and freedom for citizens. In order to complete this disturbing picture, there is the possibility that the President of the Council will be over-ordered compared to other Ministers, in fact being able to order their removal as he pleases. You see how, by linking all these points, emerges the design of a form of state in which a man alone in command holds too many powers. Precisely the authoritarian drift that our constituent Fathers wanted to avoid in any way. That is why we have also offered you some proposals. We have proposed to you an elective Senate and not a Senate appointed by party leaders, because sovereignty belongs to the people and not to parties, let us remember! We have proposed that you lower to 40,000, instead of raising to 250,000, the necessary signatures for the laws of popular initiative and the debate in Parliament on these laws must take place in certain ways and times, not as has happened with our popular law "Clean Parliament." Do you remember that? We remember this very well: 351,000 citizens simply wanted a Parliament without condemnation, a maximum of two mandates, the restoration of preferences, but it was not possible, because the parties destroyed everything with a smile of superiority. The provisions of Article 71 of the Constitution must finally be made effective in practice. The laws of popular initiative must be treated with the utmost respect by politics and not considered of supplications to the sovereign. Sovereignty belongs to the people and not to the parties. We have proposed that you abolish the quorum in the referendum, that the referendums be not only repealing but also proactive, because sovereignty belongs to the people, and not to the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have proposed that you waive immunity for members of the Senate, but you continue to be privileged, continue to want those convicted in Parliament. We have proposed that you explicitly include in the Constitution the limit of a single mandate for the President of the Republic. You also rejected this amendment. So let us understand: why are you opposed to the uniqueness of the mandate of the Colle? You want a President of the Republic to last at multiples of 7 years, and so 14, 21, 28 years? Do you want a Premier and President of the Republic to exchange roles from time to time to extend the date of their power, as happens in Russia? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If your model of change for Italy is Siberia, we immediately tell you that we prefer a much more Mediterranean and democratic climate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On one point, then, we have to understand each other very well. When we ask you for an elective Senate and not to get in the way of referendums and popular laws, it is not only we of the 5 Star Movement who ask you for it, but it is the Italian citizens who want it, it is your voters who prefer it. Can you really think that citizens are happy to have less and less say in the matter? Strange but true: you seem to think so. Your plan for institutional change can be summarized in one sentence: It is forbidden to enter the territory of a Member State of the European Union. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A movement like ours, made precisely by those citizens that you parties would like to put at the door, cannot but reject such a project. Meanwhile, say no to the abolition of Equitalia and delay the calendarization of the anti-corruption bill. Too many friends involved? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 20.02 p.m. (Following CASTALDI). Looking at the facts and not the promises and the slides, your priorities are electoral law and constitutional reforms, that is what the king, King Renzi, needs to be sure to win the next elections and to remain in power for the entire legislature, a bit like his friend Fritz, Don Silvio Berlusconi, did with telephone interceptions. Renzi has transformed the reform of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution into the fundamental problems of the country. On the contrary, from 2007 to 2012 the poor in Italy rose from 2.4 million to 4.8 million. Caritas says so, not the 5 Star Movement. The situation has certainly not improved to date. We all read e-mails. Shall we talk about pensioners? As many as 43% of pensioners survive with a pension of less than 1,000 euros gross. We'll take 14,000 in here. Mr Paglini (M5S). They take, we don't take! [[Comments of Senator Albano]] Do we want to talk about the unemployed, the unemployed? It doesn't pass month without them increasing, especially among young people. In your opinion, how many of these people wake up in the morning and say: If we do not reform Title V, will I not have a future? We hope that Renzi will succeed in achieving a non-elective Senate, which will finally protect the mayors and regional delinquents with immunity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Seventeen out of 20 or 18 are investigated. Mine in Abruzzo has 61 counts, president of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Repeat: 61. What is it? Are you a coward for the candidacy of President of the Region? What has the Renzi Government done for people so far? Nothing. What have the parties done on the points that really affect the real life of citizens? Nothing, absolute nothing. In conclusion, the 5 Star Movement, indeed the citizens (other than the 5 Star Movement, we are a group of normal citizens in here: for your rules we had to create a symbol, but we are a group of citizens who are fed up with you) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , they want an elective Senate, without immunity, they want preferences. Do we ask too much? The reduction of parliamentarians, including in the House of Deputies, the halving of their allowances, referendum repealing, proposing, quorum zero, popular laws with 40,000 signatures and with the certainty of being discussed in Parliament. Man, you gotta stay here for this, for the people! And most of all, we don't want one man in charge. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In short, if it is possible to find useful solutions for Italian citizens, we are and will be happy to participate in the change of the country, in an argumentated, serious and constructive way. Doing the good of all is the only reason that has prompted us to enter the institutions: the only one. It was not in the predictions of our lives to be parliamentarians. We haven't been licking politicians for years to be parliamentarians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It's up to you, flunking this mess, to prove that you're here for the same noble reason. Straight back, senators. Straight back. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u86	Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am speaking straight back to you, because in this House we have heard very often today - and we will also hear it in the coming days - that the most important reform of the Constitution from 1948 to today we are doing it now. That is what the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, said, and I say that it is, in fact, the case. But it is also true that we have not been able to urge in the country that pathos, that participation that a real institutional reform so important should involve in some way. Probably that spiritus creator, of which Cross spoke and who remembered my colleague Corsini, was also elected second or third level, because he did not have a great incisiveness. On the other hand, it is a task which, for its exceptionality, redefining the democratic institutions of our country, starting from Part Two of the Constitution, but not leaving unchanged the spirit of the first, passionate and recalls the sense of responsibility, not only every Group, but every colleague present in the Chamber. He calls it to his own responsibility as a representative of the nation, which, for the moment, still symbolizes in this House. Tomorrow, if it has to be, maybe another day. Whether or not we intervene in the debate, it is impossible not to be involved in it and not to put in place the strong ideals and principles that have been and are the basis of our political action and which still determine it. To the colleague who spoke earlier, I would like to remind him that we were not party leaders and that we did not come here by sideways: we came from the world of work and our territory. Values and principles that, in order not to be flatus voices, must walk day after day and find themselves in the concrete decisions we assume: find themselves even when it is difficult to reaffirm them; indeed, especially when it is difficult to reaffirm them because perhaps not in perfect coincidence with your Group. We all want to maintain and improve democracy. We all want the Commission to have its own strength and its own incisiveness, so much so that we all agree on overcoming the bicameralism of equality, but not necessarily all of us can want or interpret the same passages in the same way. This is not an element of disturbance, but an enrichment and awareness of the importance of the moment we are living. In this sense, the strong concerns that I personally had and shared with other colleagues in my Group about the basic text remain, to a large extent, also with the one that came out of the Commission's work. I listened carefully to the presentation by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, and also by the co-rapporteur, Mr Calderoli. One thing was clear, partly because it said explicitly and there can be no misunderstandings. The Commission has worked and improved the text of the Government, an objective text - I say this with a little regret - not excelled and the fact that this improvement has been there has perhaps also been the result of those who have kept their backs straight and of the debate that has taken place. However, we take note of the Commission's work and we cannot but appreciate its effort, but it was also clear that the three lines of action outlined - which the rapporteur spoke of - do not touch and could not touch the perimeter of the lintel drawn from that same document, because it is a document that originates from an agreement between political forces: nothing bad to remember it, if it has been done, but this necessarily had an impact on the work done and on the parliamentary debate. To touch on a few points, in the ten minutes I have available, on which I am still waiting for some answers, I was struck by the fact that it has been said: we have reduced the number of Members. It's not really like that. We have reduced the number of senators and left the number of Members unchanged. Was it difficult to say clearly and to give the reasons for this choice? Some of us have not agreed on this point and have tabled a draft law, and will table amendments on it, precisely because we believe that the same reasons of greater slimity and functionality as the Chambers, which have been flagged for the reduction of the number of senators, would have benefited from two Chambers that could stand around the number of 500 parliamentarians: the average - as Senator Corsini said - that is also recognized in democratic Europe. It also applies to the rationalization of the costs of the institutions (not of politics, because that pertains to democracy), but not always, in this case too, has chosen the merit of the issues, they have made other choices. Here the key problem of how the Chamber of the Senate of the Republic should be composed is grafted: this is how it came back to its name in relation to the text of the Government. I am firmly convinced, for my full sharing of the principles and values of our Constitution, how it came out after the high and competent debate that you have all remembered, that if the people are sovereign, if sovereignty is in the people, then one of the founding elements of this sovereignty is that the people elect their representatives. [[Applause from Senators Marton and Airola]] In countries where the Upper House is not elected, the differences with what is proposed to us are such and many (we do not see any similarity, in the absolute way, both with regard to the rules, competences and electoral laws), that we come to think that other are the reasons that have prompted us to take certain choices and certain roads. And as these reasons are not yet fully clear to us, let us ask (and hope that in the debate we can have some answers) what they are. Because really, when it comes to the Bundestag and a Senate similar to the German or French Senate, we all know that we are talking about something else. Perhaps there was an excessive flattening on the executive's preeminent role in relation to the legislative, as if it were the panacea of all the evils of the Republic? Just today, when we are faced with an economic and employment crisis that strangles our country and a balance between legislative and executive power is, in my opinion, the best and most inclusive form of tackling it? The Senate, presented by the text of the speakers, will see the presence of representatives of the territories, some legislators in their field, others instead administrative, elected for a serious and demanding job that is other than what they will come to carry out here: a Senate of second and third election; a Senate, as has been said, of nominations. That is why, then, it is no small thing to ask for a minimum of clarity, which must be done within this debate before it ends, with respect to another important point, which is the electoral law, that Italicum which is constituted as a hyper-majoritarian law, a law that re-introduces those powers of party nomination that we, the Democratic Party, have denounced to the extreme as never more available. Another important element of this law is that still, out of here, the government will probably speak with political forces present in this House, with the 5 Star Movement. Then you understand that the picture before us has shadows and does not allow you to give clear answers to problems that are legitimate to raise. The combined arrangement sees the citizen governor at every legislative change of the major coalitions without real power in the choice of their representatives. And this, I repeat, is a limit to its sovereignty. This is a point from which I cannot derogate if there is no certainty of rebalancing, in the electoral law, in the composition of control and balance of powers, in institutional guarantees. I heard today that governability is certainly a value... PRESIDENT. I invite you to conclude. D'ADDA (PD). Of course, ma'am. Control of power is also a value and participation is also a value. I go quickly, but I can't help but say that, from this point of view, there are still no elements that leave me in the need to have answers. I can't help but see in terms of judgment what I see, I can't help but think what I think. In the path that has led us to here often these positions that I have expressed have been the object of derision and even of animosity, sometimes even of jokes to the limit of the personal attack. It doesn't matter who made them, because in the end I received, just for what happened, a sentence by Albert Camus: In the depths of winter I learned that inside me at the end there is an invincible summer. Well, I believe that the summer of consciousness is and remains invincible, the lighthouse to follow until some answers are given. And as a Catholic I would like to approach São Paulo, quoted by my colleague Corsini, also Luther, who said: "Until you convince me with arguments, I stand here, I stand still and continue in my battle." [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Senators Albano and Fasiolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u88	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u89	Mr President, in emphasizing my esteem for all my fellow Members, I would like to take a moment, before speaking, to represent my esteem for a colleague who belongs to another parliamentary group and who I have listened to very carefully today. Intellectual honesty, precision and punctuality in the political and technical analysis of the constitutional bill, integrity, oratory art and courage, which have distinguished his speech today, are typical virtues of a senator worthy of being called honorable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So I thank Mr Corsini. In the current crisis situation, with the emergencies that our country is going through, we do not understand the urgency of the Government to change the Constitution. Who really wants this reform? Europe? Berlin? The Colle? High finance? When, in the post-war period, the Italians decided to draw up their Constitutional Charter, citizens were given the opportunity to elect a constituent Assembly. Every citizen thus had the power to elect their representatives and were elected people of the highest ethical and cultural profile. Among the 556 Constituents were Sandro Pertini, Piero Calamandrei, Teresa Mattei, Ferruccio Parri, Alcide De Gasperi, Benedetto Croce, just to remember some of them. All people who belonged to different political traditions and experiences, but whose cultural prestige and moral uprightness could not be questioned by anyone. These people were able to write a clear and balanced text that was the basis on which our democracy was built. The first article of this text states: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. It is no coincidence, Minister Boschi, that the constituent Fathers wanted to open our Constitutional Charter with the two sentences just mentioned, which summarize three founding principles: democracy, work and popular sovereignty. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] These principles bring us back to a single concept, which has a well-defined word: freedom. A Parliament which (as it is preparing to do) focuses on itself all the powers that affect the freedom of the people. This has a name: it is called despotism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citing Montesquieu, they are the laws that must conform to the life of the peoples and not the peoples to the laws of the people, especially if they are laws made for the use and consumption of a political, economic and financial caste. The life of peoples demands respect: respect for human and social rights, respect for human dignity, respect for the thought and will of communities. "Comunità" is the concept so much emphasized by Olivetti and that this Italy of politics and banks seems to have forgotten. But let us return to popular sovereignty. What are the elements of reform of the recent constitutional bill that would allow the people, the citizens, to exercise the supreme power? The non-electivity of the Senate? The abolition of bicameralism? The increase in the number of signatories needed to propose repealing referendums, from 500 000 to 800 000, without the elimination of quorum? No. In fact, none of the reforms envisaged will be able to facilitate citizens' participation in the affairs of the State, which will increasingly remain the prerogative of a few, closed in the Palaces of power. The Renzi Government proposes to limit universal suffrage to the Chamber of Deputies alone, while the members of the Senate would be chosen on the basis of a hybrid mechanism between the accumulation of posts (which unfortunately in our country aspires to become a real legal institution) and the restricted elections (i.e. the voters are only the holders of other important public political positions (unions and members of the Regional Councils). The abolition of universal suffrage for the Senate of the Republic is in effect a long step back in time (I would say to the nineteenth century), and precisely when the passive electorate belonged to few, reserved only to those who met certain requirements of census and power. In other words, the majority of the new Senate will be of equal line-up of the House, composed of politicians, already elected through electoral lists more or less precompiled and decided by parties where the only common denominator is obedience. The Renzi Government wants to bring about another innovation (let's call it so), the main one, that is the elimination of the perfect bicameralism. To alter the guarantee offered by equal bicameralism means to irreversibly alter Parliament's legislative capacity. As a result, all the apparatus that governs our constitutional bodies would be compromised; the operation of these bodies is in fact the result of a system of cross-checks. In fact, it is no coincidence that the Constitution guarantees itself, and its people, from the upheavals that are too rash with the mechanism of Article 138. The excuse of the current government is that by eliminating equal bicameralism there would be considerable savings for the state coffers. However, this saving, which is far from significant, would only be for the functions of the Senate and not for its costs. The other amendment concerns the number of signatories needed to propose a repealing referendum from today's 500,000 to 800,000. The truth is that even with this reform, the government is trying to drive politics further and further away from the citizens. The reform, in fact, is perfectly consistent with the fivefold increase in the number of signatories needed to propose laws of popular initiative ranging from 50,000 to 250,000. Here too the purpose is clear... I'm sorry government representatives are smiling. The citizens to whom democracy will be removed will smile less. Perhaps it is worth listening to those who represent the citizens in this House while avoiding a smile. ( [[Comments of the Undersecretary Pizzetti]] I repeat what Senator Castaldi said just now: 9 million and 500,000 people in Italy are poor. We are faced with a Government unable to take steps to ensure a decent life for citizens in Italy. So perhaps we should listen to those who represent those citizens as much as you, with the same dignity! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As I said, here too the aim is clear: to remove citizens from active participation in the political and social life of the country by taking away their every right. But who are the people who are going to change our (our citizens) Constitutional Charter and question popular sovereignty? Among those who set themselves this exalted objective, there are no figures comparable to the cultural and moral stature of the constituent Fathers and, above all, the proposal comes from an Executive whose President was not elected by the citizens either as a parliamentary or as head of a coalition or a party that won the elections. Therefore, a President-in-Office of the Council and an Executive (Mr Boschi, I am referring to you) not elected by the people, accompanied by an illegitimate Parliament, are going to change what belongs to the people - I stress this -! Is this or isn't it unconstitutional? Transitional governments, technical governments or governments like today should confine themselves to solving the country's ordinary problems, without going into hasty reforms of an important text such as the Constitution. Despite being included in a paradoxical parliamentary context, several times the 5 Star Movement Group has made its own proposals such as: the reduction of the costs of politics; the zeroing of the quorum constituting the repealing referendums; the reduction to 40,000 of the number of signatories necessary to propose a bill of popular initiative and the determination of a certain period of time within which Parliament will, I repeat, have to discuss the bill of popular initiative providing for an accurate sanctioning system. This - I remind everyone - is what happens in the most modern democratic systems. He doesn't propose it, nor does the 5 Star Movement invent it. One of the many examples, not even too recent (but we are not good at looking at the virtuous examples in Europe), is "Open Ministry" used in Finland. It is a platform where citizens discuss and write their laws and, if they collect 50,000 signatures, the laws must - I stress - be discussed in Parliament. It is a phenomenon that studies Europe, the Council of Europe, which studies the whole world, but Italy applies the opposite. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] These are therefore the changes necessary to involve citizens again in the political life of this country. But government and majority, deaf to the demands of the citizens and - I stress - closed to the parliamentary debate, in order not to miss anything, restore in the bill under consideration the current immunity for the senators and put, Minister Boschi, in the background the true reforms that, in our view and in the way of seeing all Italian citizens who have needs of a dignified life, are essential for this country, like a reform of the serious work (and not a reform in half or the usual reform unfinished), including income support systems such as the income of citizenship, or that on the conflict of interests, to name two. It is all too easy to pretend that things do not work because the Constitution creates delays or because it is considered to be overtaken by time, when it would be enough to apply it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If an orchestra fails to play in unison, in a coordinated and harmonious way, it does not change the music score, but it changes the conductor and replaces them with people capable and prepared those musicians who have proved incapable. It is not the articles of the Constitution that prevent the development of the country, but the lack of a public ethics and a sense of the State. It will not be the reform of the Constitution that will give back the work to the workers who today are in the Cassa Integrazione or have been forced to accept contracts of solidarity because the enterprises close or are delocalized, and close or are delocalized because there is no serious plan of economic and social development of the Country. Reform of the Constitution will not prevent speculation and rampant corruption. I am now quoting the words of a well-prepared young man, a specialist in legal matters. These are young people, young people like you, Minister Boschi: These people who offer us easy solutions and recipes to reform our Charter are the same people who have reduced this country to inefficiency. It is the same politicians who have tolerated for years that a person who has been sent to trial and condemned definitively sits comfortably in Parliament. They are the same ones who agree to reform the Constitution with a condemned person in a final way. They are the same ones who promote, for example, a remand for the massacre of Viareggio to be CEO of one of the most important industrial realities of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Boschi may not know who he is. How can we trust these people? Given this premise, what is the point of changing the Constitution? And most importantly, what does it do? Who benefits? In recent years we have been intoxicated by ever new and unexpected reform projects. First the problem was the form of government and in endless debates there were politicians and politologists engaged in describing the advantages of presidentialism, then of semi-presidency to French or of a German chancellor, then debates were introduced on hybrid systems that touched on mythology. Now the attention has shifted to Parliament and we are faced with the dilemma: bicameralism yes, bicameralism no. And the final result was this last proposal to introduce an Assembly of the Autonomouss, then reformulated as Senate of the Autonomouss, of course not elective: the people must have no voice! This boy is your age, Madam Minister. Already in the past some lawyers and politicians have tried to imagine in different ways the overcoming of equal bicameralism, identifying it as one of the many causes of parliamentary immobilism and the loss of centrality of our Parliament. However, it would be enough to apply and implement the Constitution and we would all be better off. But this Commission does not care: they prefer to pick up the Constitution, without resolving the emergencies and contingent problems of citizens, reaching a proposal for a change that mixes different profiles, but all focused on the need to demonstrate a reduction in the "weight" of the institutions, both in terms of numbers (of parliamentarians) and in terms of costs (of operations?), both in terms of the abolition of bodies such as CNEL. Thus the choice for a non-elective Senate, of second level and representative of the Regions and local authorities, inspired, as they have also mentioned illustrious professors of public law, to the German model, with a function of guarantee in the process of constitutional revision and prevention of conflicts between the State and the Regions, without however clearly indicating the border and powers of this body. Moreover, those who cite German experience should remember that in Germany the Länder did not have problems comparable to the depressing spectacle offered by the members of the Councils and Regional Councils of many Italian realities. The scandals that struck the regional health care in Lazio, Lombardy, Tuscany and Campania, investigations opened by the courts of Rome, Milan, Turin, Naples, the unjustified and disproportionate electoral refunds of many advisors and above all the inefficiency and the normative chaos caused by many Regions, some of which have proved more committed to open debates on the colors of their flag and an anthem, compared to the realization of territorial development projects and services for citizens. These people have already shown that they are incapable: do we also want to reward them by creating a closed-number Senate where only they can be elected? The Senate must never be reduced to a closed club, but it must always be possible for citizens to choose their representatives directly and democratically. Reforms like this feed the idea, impressed in the minds of the Italians, that we are governed by a real caste. A caste that like all the elite tends to protect itself and protect itself, perched on its privileges and on that pale and faded power that still believes it has. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. CATALFO (M5S). I'm almost done, Mr. President. If this is the Government's intention, have the courage to return to the Albertine Statute and restore a closed Senate of directing appointment. It would be intellectually more honest to reveal these intentions, without imposing yet another hybrid reform on the country, yet another scam law, disguised as an innovative reform. I end up with the words of another young man: In other words, our Italy will be a monarchy of condemned - or an oligarchy, do you - disguised as Republic, where sovereignty will belong to the sovereigns (you), who will exercise it at will and interest in all forms of the Constitution. To conclude, I would like to mention the words: guarantees of the freedom of the people, democracy, work and popular sovereignty. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u90	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u91	Mr President, I will try to make my speech, but I do not hide that I will do so with extreme discomfort, because speaking in an almost empty Chamber and with the disinterest, to say the least, of the representatives of the Government gives a sense of the importance you give to the parliamentary debate, which is zero. Anyway, let's move on. Today, in this House, we are debating a bill that will have important repercussions on the political order and democracy in Italy. We are witnessing impotent plans to overturn our Constitution, by a Parliament explicitly delegitimized by the decision of Constitutional Court No. 1 of 2014. The responsibility of the PD is enormous, since it is allowing the implementation of the plan that was by Berlusconi and, indeed, today becomes its primary creator. The fact that it is not Berlusconi, but is the President of the Council of Ministers, President of the Council of the European Union and, not least, Secretary of the PD who takes over the witness of the authoritarian turning point is even more serious, because it neutralizes what should be the opposition opinion, of which we remain the only voice. Once again, urgent reforms, which this country needs, are sacrificed on the altar of dark interests. Once again we are voting for a reform which is certainly not aimed at improving the conditions of a country in economic and social difficulties, but at strengthening the power bodies and their self-referentiality to the detriment of the interests of its citizens. Let me remind you that this is a Parliament clearly delegitimized by the decision of the Council that deleted the Porcellum: it had to make a new electoral law quickly and then return to the vote, it certainly cannot prepare a profound revision of the Constitution, ranging from the cancellation of the Senate to the form of government. The draft law we are debating today is intended to change as many as 44 articles of the Constitution concerning both the form of state and the form of government. The secret agreements of the Nazarene signed between Renzi and Berlusconi to divide Italy are coming to the surface with this reform that has the objective of excluding the Senate from the partnership to the political address and from the trust relationship with the Government, entrusting to the Chamber of Deputies alone the revocation or the agreement of trust to the Government. Do You Remember? It was Berlusconi's drawing. A drawing that now finds its place in the inauguration of a system of investiture democracy, of man only under command, with the aim of sweeping away all forms of debate or dissent. It is increasingly clear that outside the steel pact between PD and Forza Italia the Government does not intend to touch a single comma of this text. Italians must know that the rules of the game are writing them in two, Renzi and Berlusconi. Why keep the deal a secret? When he talks to us he wants to stream and when he meets Berlusconi he does everything in secret? In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the 5 Star Movement presented more than 220 proposals for amendments and sub-amendments, and they were all, and I say all, rejected. However, these were changes aimed at reducing costs, cutting the number of parliamentarians and their allowances, and introducing forms of direct and participatory democracy that allowed a form of control of the citizens over politics. Democracy and participation, already: they should be the foundation of this country, as described in Article 1 of the Constitution. Among the various instruments that we have proposed there are many useful ones: from the proactive referendum to the preferential lane for popular legislative initiatives. Instead, these instruments are unwelcome to the Government, as can be seen from the text of the draft law under consideration, which in itself does not say anything or almost anything about the means of direct participation of citizens, or rather limits their prerogatives (see increase of signatures required for referendums). President Renzi, we realize that you, like your fellow reformers Berlusconi, have little tolerance for the system of guarantees and counterpowers enshrined in the Constitution, from the transition from monarchy to the Republic, from fascism to democracy, and this is not only told by us of the 5 Star Movement, the only popular force that defends the rights of citizens, they also tell you illustrious constitutionalists, the same ones that you also audit in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The reform of the Parliament that you want to approve is aimed exclusively at the structure of the Senate, which already outlines the unbalanced approach of the establishment of the draft constitutional law under consideration. Only the House of Deputies - which remains totally unreformed in functions, competences and the numerical dimension - becomes the holder of the representation of the nation and the political address. The reversal of the bicameralism of equality and the current structure of relations between the Government and Parliament that this reform intends to bring, the transfer to the State of exclusive competence on matters so far attributed also to the Regions will re-propose the same conflict and confusion that is expressly intended to overcome in different fields and functions. In fact, this reform draws an imperfect diarchy that delivers into the hands of the governmental majority not only Palazzo Chigi, but also the two main institutions of control and guarantee: President of the Republic and Constitutional Court (and it also has repercussions for the Supreme Council of the judiciary), which I think is enough to say that we are starting a process of regime that has no comparison in the comparative panorama. After all, your goal you reveal from the beginning of the text of the bill. It is enough to see Article 1 of the reform, which amends Article 55 of the Constitution, on Parliament, according to which the House represents the nation, while the Senate does not represent the nation, nor the citizens, nor the people, but represents the territorial institutions. With this bill you intend to remove the Senate from all ties with the people, the citizens, and make it a mere representative of the institutions. The Senate will no longer have the theoretical obligation to represent the interests of the citizens, but rather that of abstract institutions which have appointed the senators themselves, like their respective regional councils. With this reform you intend to assign the entire legislative function to the Chamber alone and assign a series of illusory powers to the Senate (the so-called proposed modifications), which will always be surpassable in the last instance by the House. Combining this reduction in the powers of the Senate with the electoral law that you propose, the Italicum, which assigns to the majority in the House a prize in important seats, would be a good game to make the Senate little more than a consultative body (though defined in the text as a proposition) by taking away all counterpower to it. In the new non-elective Senate, the whole system of incompatibility, based on the prevention of conflicts of interest arising from the mixing of different positions, would be missed. Moreover, the effective power of control and the power of inquiry would be entrusted only to the Chamber, whose electoral law, together with the trust report, makes it a body strongly aligned with the Government. And the need for counterpowers is the basis of the Constitutional Charter on which our country and modern democracies are founded. You want to concentrate power in the hands of one organ and one coalition: something unthinkable for a liberal democracy, and a basis for what many have already defined as a design for an authoritarian democracy. What would happen if all the Presidents of the Region in a given election round were all an expression of the same political force? It's happened before! With this bill you violate Article 1 of the Constitution, which I take the opportunity to remind you (many of my colleagues have already done so, but perhaps it is worth repeating this over and over again in this House): Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Sovereignty belongs to the people, and therefore laws must be passed by elected representatives of the people and not by elected persons to other positions that the part-time senators do. Article 1, which proclaims popular sovereignty, also appears to be violated in the proposal to raise the minimum threshold of signatures necessary for proposals for popular initiative law, which would increase from 50,000 to 250,000. You are concerned to justify this restriction by claiming that such legislative proposals would be guaranteed times, forms and limits; which is a mirror for the lark, since it is in the meantime not intended to facilitate (as it should) but to limit the popular legislative initiative. The signatures needed for referendums requiring 800,000 signatures are also increased, with a preliminary opinion on eligibility given by the Constitutional Court after the first 400,000 signatures. The attempt to delegate to a caste which is not directly responsible to the citizens, both legislative power and executive power, along the lines of the dark decision-making mechanisms of the European elite, is becoming increasingly apparent; mechanisms which lead to results such as those we see in Greece, and which at the same time keep the direct leaders of these choices hidden. The authoritarian turning point you aim to achieve is confirmed by the simultaneous weakening of the judicial counterpower. If the objective of protecting the caste from the control of the citizens is achieved by limiting the instruments of popular initiative and eliminating the electivity of the Senate, then it remains only to preserve it from the control of the judiciary. But you in this bill also think about this. Article 6, which amends Article 68 of the Constitution on parliamentary immunities, provides that senators (also in the new composition) and Members continue to maintain the same prerogatives as before. According to the Council of Europe, Italy is among the most historically guaranteed countries: the level of protection provided by Rome is comparable to that of modern democracies such as Albania, Belarus, Georgia and Russia. The senators, in particular, will be regional councillors and mayors, and when they are appointed senators (and no longer elected, let's remember) they assume the status of "immunized," i.e. they cannot be intercepted, searched, seized or arrested without the prior permission of the Chamber. In the light of what is happening - and I am referring to the scandals that daily involve representatives of PD and FI, from MOSE to Expo, to the latest condemnations for false ideology (see the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region Errani) - do you think that this reform protects the public interest, the citizens? So you want to discreetly appoint senators who will then be immune from any investigation? The immune senators will no longer be elected by the citizens, but appointed by other politicians and the President of the Republic. I ask you again: what is the public interest protected by this whole reform? Let us turn to Article 10, which amends Article 72 of the Constitution, and let us talk about the 'gigliottina'. The Government may request from the House that a bill, indicated as essential for the implementation of the Government program, be entered with priority. This bill must be put to the vote within 60 days. If, after 60 days, the vote has not been taken, the Government may request an item-by-article vote, as proposed. With this change, the Government legalizes the famous "gigliottina" to the parliamentary debate, introducing a requirement of essentiality of the bill. For those with short memories, the "gigliottina" has recently been applied by the President of the Boldrini Chamber to give 7.5 billion public money to private banks. It introduces the institute of the "vote to certain date" aimed at guaranteeing certain times of approval of the bills considered important by the Government and then introduces the "substitution of supremacy." The latter, which can be traced back to Article 10, is the one that summarises in a crystal clear way the zeroing of the political and decision-making role of the new Senate of the Autonomouss, which, in fact, is worthless and does not count for anything. According to this clause, "on the government's initiative" the laws of the State on matters that are not the exclusive competence of the State (where therefore there should be the veto of the Regions or municipalities), can exceed the limits envisaged and prevail over the local autonomy. The vote on a certain date is aberrant, because it removes Parliament's umpteenth prerogative, which is precisely in its name, 'Parliament', which is to discuss until we reach the right and thoughtful decision on the law to be adopted. With this change, however, the discussion and comparison are totally eliminated, only to be able to execute orders and be peremptori. It will be entirely at the discretion of the Government, which will decide arbitrarily whether a bill is essential, therefore "glowable" or not. In this way we intend to prevent the parliamentary debate, which is fundamental in democracies all over the world. Once again, what is the public interest that you intend to protect with this change? Remember that every law you promulgate must be for the benefit of the citizens, who are our employers. Where, however, there is no peremptor, and this is always in contempt of the Constitution, it is about the amendment in the matter of the decree of urgency (Article 77 of the Constitution). You really hit the bottom here. In the explanatory text of this bill it is quietly explained that, in order to avoid excessive recourse to the decree of urgency, the system of voting is used on a certain date and it is therefore officially declared that the Executive up to now has made an abnormal and out-of-law use of decree-laws. Then there is an amendment that removes itself the connotation of urgency to the decree-laws establishing that, in case of referral to the Chambers by the President of the Republic of a bill of conversion of decrees-laws, the Chambers have a time limit of another 30 days for the modification. But then, if the days to convert a government bill go from 60 to 90 days, do you explain to me where the urgency is more recognizable in a provision that can take 90 days to be approved? In essence, with the vote at a certain date, the Commission is requiring Parliament to adopt a law, the law that the Commission wishes to adopt, in the time required by the Commission for the legislative process. Similarly, in the case of the measures which it itself proposes, the Commission is granting itself a longer time limit for approval. Too bad the constitutional requirement for decrees is urgency. In addition to the changes I have mentioned, which all go in the direction of what is an authoritarian design, there are substantial errors, which lead to ridicule: I take the example of Article 16, which amends Article 82 of the Constitution, on parliamentary investigations. Only the House will be able to arrange investigations on all matters of public interest, while the Senate can arrange investigations only on matters relating to territorial autonomy. How does the Senate, which according to your authoritarian plan would become made up of representatives of the territorial authorities, carry out investigations into issues that would concern the territorial authorities themselves? Not to mention the senators appointed by the President of the Republic: such senators, as it is easy to understand, will have no connection with the system of autonomy on which the bill is based. The term of this term, equal to that of the President of the Republic, is therefore released from the term of office of the other senators. Senators for life (transitional provisions) are abolished, and this is perhaps the only point on which we can agree. Obviously, in order not to displease the "Fathers of the Homeland" (or perhaps it is better to say the crisis and unemployment) like Monti, Piano or Ciampi, the current senators will remain in office for life. To them will be added, always for life, the future Presidents of the Republic, and then another Father of the Homeland as Giorgio Napolitano, assuming that one day he renounces his throne. In conclusion, then, we will have: a Senate of unelected and paperweight without a real power of protection of regional interests and control over the work of the House; a Chamber of single-colored nominations under blackmail of the Government; a Government able to impose the political agenda through guillotine and its own puppet to the Presidency of the Republic; a President of the Republic never more guarantor, because elected by a single party. It is therefore clear that this bill has the sole objective of worsening - and not least - the functioning of the already unstable parliamentary institutions: to the crisis of legitimacy of Parliament you react by transforming the Senate into an elitist Chamber; to the unconstitutionality of the Porcellum you respond with an unconstitutional electoral law. If this evil and evil bill, which aims to destabilize the political balance forever, were to pass, from that moment on in this nation will prevail only the reasons of the strongest, of those who have the most control and power; the guarantees will end for everyone, also for you and for your family members and for the generations who will descend from them. You will betray your duty to work for the common good; you will fall short of the most important reason why you are in this House, envisaged and wanted by the Constitution, regardless of political membership, which is to cultivate a far-sighted vision for our country and to ensure a future for our young people, to guarantee and preserve them a future. When I was elected, I thought I should fight here, in these classrooms, to get the right laws passed for citizens, to defend the right to work, to health. But never, believe me, I would have thought I'd be defending the Constitution today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I never thought you would dare so much: trample on the Constitution and, therefore, on the fundamental rights of citizens. Believe me, and I speak with my heart in my hand, I would never have believed that you would come to this, and that is why I ask you to reflect well: you are not taking away freedom only from our children, but also from yours. Perhaps it is helpful to recall a few words spoken by someone wiser and more just than us: The Constitution is not an arid list of unnamed articles. Behind every article in the Constitution there are young people, young people like you, fallen, fallen fighting, young people who gave their lives so that words of justice and freedom could be sculpted on this Charter. If anyone asks you where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where young people were shot, in the fields where they were hanged, in the prisons where they were tortured. Where an Italian died to redeem the dignity of the Italian people, go there with thought, or young people, because there our Constitution was born. Piero Calamandrei. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u92	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u93	20.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u94	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first question that comes to mind is why there is still a reform, or rather why, once again, our Constitution is put to the fore in such a restricted time since the last attempt made by the centre-right majority, led by Mr Berlusconi. It comes from questioning the need so unstoppable, that has caught our country in the last twenty-five years, to proceed systematically to the revision of its own normative apparatus, without ever grasping the best, indeed, capturing almost always the worst and obtaining as the only result the rethinking, the repentance and the return back. This is the history of this country in the last twenty-five years, of which some are protagonists today as they were yesterday. This process - I repeat - coincides with the impoverishment of our country on the economic and social level. In the 1970s - the years of true reforms, those promoted by the Italian Communist Party and the Christian Democracy of Enrico Berlinguer and Aldo Moro - reforms for social rights, divorce, health reform, the right to housing, the right to study. The great economic and social reforms of those years were traveling with 70% of the public debt relative to GDP, then came the season of en route corrections and now we are going towards 140% of the public debt on GDP. I would like to say that there has been no government this year and a half - and we had three - that it has not proposed rules for administrative simplification. The result is that no one understands what is in force and what is no longer. There is no orderly system. The bureaucracies are crazy and they can't move anymore. The country is paralyzed and the crisis, the real economic and social crisis, becomes worse. There are four million unemployed, but if we continue in this way, we will reach five million. The debt - as I have already said - is about 140%, but in a few years there are ten points of GDP less. If we're gonna go find out, we're selling everything. There is no sheik who did not consider Italy as a consumer market, after having taken a piece of its production apparatus. I suggest then a reflection, because all this will still be written in the chronicle of our country. Tomorrow we will have to reflect because the assumption of this process is that in this way, by deciding faster and more alone, deciding without any contrast, you solve the problem of economy and employment in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] And the accounts will have to come back. If they don't come back, you'll be the protagonists of a further failure and, as you're young, you'll have plenty of time to atone [[Laughter. Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How is our Constitution built? It has been said several times: it is built with balance. The beauty of this text is the concern that is at the origin of its elaboration, which has cleverly built a system not of weights and counterweights, but of direct and responsible participations in the realization of a modern state. Italy, until some time ago, was in fact a modern state, but now it is no longer, and not because of the Constitution, but because of the systematic violations that have been made to the Constitution in recent years. We have violated it first of all in not applying it in its entirety and, secondly, in making clearly contradictory rules. Our Constitution takes pluralism as a polar star: pluralism of ideas, which must be able to express themselves freely. I understand that every now and then there are some innocent people who have to pay the price in front of so many culprits who will never pay him. However, our Constitution has had the merit of urging our people to be the protagonist of the construction of the community and its future; of the national community and its future; of the national and European community and of its future. Therefore: pluralism of central powers; distinction between executive, legislative and judicial very strict; plural powers between central and peripheral, with the protagonism of local autonomy. It is in Article 5 that we violate the principle of this operation. I repeat, we violate him. Article 5 states that it is national legislation which adapts to the development of self-government and the administrative decentralisation of State offices. There is the value of the protagonism of our territories, which, in this case, in the proposal is offended. It is for this reason that I do not agree, because this so-called reform project renounces to be within the channel that is marked by the Part before the Constitution, that is, the one where the constituent principles of our Republic are written in a non-modifiable way. Responsible participation, the one that calls for right-duty starts from that: every citizen has the right-duty to participate in public life. It cannot be excluded, nor limited; indeed, we must support it in this effort because it is the participation that has made this country great, it is intelligence. In Italy there was, as a main example of a living and capable economy, the small, the very small and the micro-enterprise, the one he invented, because he participated in the citizens, felt the country as his own. Now I travel the streets and we are in despair: four million unemployed; you see no one. It is a dying country, struck to death by the television broadcasts you participate in in mass, enriching those who sell fake images. This is intolerable. We're all asleep; we're not capable of reaction! There is more: where the bombs rain, where there is an unacceptable and intolerable human condition! This is a country asleep, dying, vegetable. What do we do to help him? We delete popular participation from everything; we continue to administer sleeping pills, even heavy drugs that fall asleep for the end of our people, rather than urging them to be an integral part of this effort of reconstruction and rebirth. This is the responsibility that you take. You assume the responsibility of excluding those who cannot be excluded because they are the sovereign. The sovereign is no party secretary. It may be powerful for some time, a few months or a few years, but the sovereign in a democratic state, in a society even offended by tyranny, the sovereign who is hiding, but first and then wakes up, is the people and cannot be excluded from this so-called initiative of reform of the Constitution and rewriting of the fundamental Charter of our Republic. If you do the math, you better find a way not to approve this thing with two thirds, because you have to leave the people responsible for the decision and you have to encourage the debate. You must encourage the discussion in a serious, transparent way, as it deserves a real reorganization of our regulatory system, which is needed, but in order to eliminate everything that is not needed, that is so much and that we produce in industrial quantity every day. You know this better than I do: we arrive at the Commission, we adopt regulations on 2 July and we change them on 2 September; we approve them on 2 September and we return them again on 2 October. Let's make a regulatory production crazy! We should stop for a moment, erase all the unnecessary, reorganize, understand what must be saved and give rise to our capacity to revive economic activity, to our ability to produce, to our sense of community, to our capacity for cooperation and relationship with others, which would be so useful today also because of the international crises that we face. I would just like to say these things in order to make my contribution, which will not be lacking, Mr President, even in the amendments. I have left out talking about Sardinia because I do not want to be monothematic, but it is in my thoughts and it cannot be excluded that it does so in the continuation of the debate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Senator Gatti Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u95	Unfortunately, given the continuing social crisis, there will be no shortage of opportunities. We would like there to be no worrying opportunities, but I fear there are.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u96	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you to the citizens who follow from outside, for those who follow outside this House what we say, assuming that what we say makes sense, since we make a great deal of talk, but, if I remember correctly, the first time we tried to change or cancel the Senate was the 7th legislature, now we are at the 17th, see if this time we succeed; we hope and believe that we do not and will oppose this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today is July 14th. Today the Bastille was taken, the French Revolution began and there is a verse of the French national anthem that says: "Liberté, libertéchérie." Combats avec tes défenseurs He spoke of freedom, a beautiful word freedom. Freedom: that revolutionary word, perhaps the most revolutionary of all, that has been stolen for twenty years by the present absent from the right side of the hemicycle, by that plastic party son of the marketing of Publitalia. Freedom is now also a word used by the current President of the Council, when he wands the senators of the PD who are not aligned with the imperative work of the government he presided over. First Senator Cociancich spoke of Europe and said that ours is not a bicameral system, but a tricameral system, because there is Europe, and he said that Europe is an example of a lack of democracy, because the laws make it the Commission. Therefore, because Europe is not a completely democratic system - and this has been reiterated since the power of the elected is limited - we do the same in Italy. Perhaps we needed to change Europe first, and when it became democratic, we could have thought of other reforms, and instead because Europe, as it has been defined, works badly, we too decide to work badly. That sounds like a lot of thought to me. When thought evolves to copy something that works badly, it means we're good at copying something wrong. That sounds good to me. He and others then spoke of a strong economic crisis, which bites. If the economic crisis - of course theoretically because no one wishes it - leads us to think that the system can collapse on itself, it is the moment when there is a need to subtract democracy, because in a crisis situation it is easier to have a top-notch, dirigistic system, in which power is centered in the hands of a few. I think it's a very dangerous vision, as well as quite a piece of crap! In fact, if we are faced with a crisis, the answer should be: more democracy, less power for the Commission. We, on the other hand, give more power to the Commission and less power to Parliament. That seems to me to be at least the wrong way of doing things. However, we can make a few comments both on the method imposed by the majority to amend our Constitutional Charter and on the substance of its content. I and others have reiterated - and I repeat this again in order to avoid any doubt - that the Movement is absolutely refractory to not wanting to change. We do not want to keep the status quo at aeternum: we are willing to change the rules, to improve them. We went in here for a reason I've said several times. We entered the institutions because it seemed to us that politics was failing, no longer representing the general interest, but the special interests of many people sitting here; if they are sitting in this House: We say people who usually, when they're present, are sitting here. We have also tabled several constitutional bills, amendments and more to try to improve some imperfect parts. The guiding principle is always the same: the conviction that all citizens are equal and all equally have the right to express their views on the form of State and the form of government of the country in which they reside. All these proposals have not really been taken into account by a deaf majority, or even better, absorbed by the voice of the head ('head' is always a very important word), which after the climb of its party and the subsequent climb of the institutions intends to climb in the same way also the democratic foundations of our constitutional order. It is a climber of a wall of ninth degree. He's very good at climbing, but sometimes when you climb the walls you fall down. So be careful. On 1 April we began the discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - it has been a while - and Minister Boschi has come to read us a report: a thirty-five-minute reading, a good reading, very long. I still wonder if you wrote it or if someone wrote it to you, but on that occasion we launched a provocation: if the government - as it does by putting the question of trust and the possibility of issuing the decrees-laws - imposes its will on Parliament, what is Parliament for? Parliament does not make sense if the government always imposes its will. If you want to do this, that is, impose the government's will on Parliament, abolish the Senate because it no longer makes sense, but ensure that the Government performs only and exclusively the will of the only House that would remain, but where there is no majority prize. We imagined, if we wanted to make a pindarian flight (I do not speak on behalf of the Group, but obviously on personal behalf and above all, I repeat, it is a provocation), a single House where there was no majority award and where, therefore, the Government simply carried out the will of the elected Parliament. Since this doesn't happen and maybe you want white paper, I remember the answer of Prince De Curtis (sometimes I come back to talk about him), in the movie "The two colonels": when the German colonel tells him that he has white paper, he gives an answer that has become famous and that therefore it would not be necessary to repeat, but I want to remember it anyway: "I clean myself... it's something else. So, you can keep that white paper, because we don't give it to you, and if we ever give it to you, it'll be rough paper, sandpaper! Aristophanes, two thousand and five hundred years ago, wrote the clouds. In that play, he opposed the righteous to the unjust. I read a little bit of it, even if we remember it. Says the righteous: "Sacred of harmonic art were the lavish laws; and those who fooled, who came out in those gorges that so much like those of today, of the school of Frini, made specifically to torture the throat, buscava knocke, as a corruptor of the Muse". I emphasize the expression "buscava knocke". But the wrongdoer answers: "I have been suffocating for a long time, for the desire to get rid of him with opposing arguments: for the wise have spoken less of me, for I first said all the contrary to the law and to the laws I had the glory: there is no sum that is worth knowing how to choose causes shouldered, and to bring back victory!" It's about victory, carrying forward the "shoulder causes": it's that victory that gives strength, makes powerful and haughty, and exalts the ego of which the Premier is overflowingly full. It's full of ego, it's got a huge ego; maybe it wouldn't fit the Premier's ego in here! [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] The force, as Napoleon said, is based on opinion. What is the Government? Nothing, if it doesn't control opinion. What is your opinion, colleagues? Maybe we'll ask in tomorrow's session, where you'll all be present. What is the opinion of the Italians? Who forge the opinion of the people? Many years ago the Light Institute existed. Who's there today? The servile media? Is this how you forge the minds of the people? Good to see. Let us come to the method by which the majority would like to lead us today to change the provisions of the Titles from I to VI of Part II of the Constitution. The method is well known by all, but it is important to remember it. Through a Parliament delegitimized by that short electoral-elected circuit produced by an electoral system sanctioned by the Supreme Court (the majority prize), through the purges reached with the edict, when it was in China, which have redefined the composition of the 1st Commission, and again, by means of sensationalist announcements and bombers well orchestrated by the regime press, today we are all obliged, despite ourselves, to see the demise of the pillars of our democracy, also making it in haste. We, in fact, run. I remember what he was always running to, and at some point they asked why he was running, and he said, I don't know. However, colleagues in the majority, remind the President-in-Office of the Council when he will rejoice at the results achieved (if he reaches them), that if constitutional reforms are made quickly, it is always the citizens and the whole democratic order that loses us. For example, when in 2001 the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution was quickly and furiously approved, how many conflicts of attribution were raised between the State and the Regions, with the consequent congestion of the Constitutional Court and above all with the immobilism and uncertainty of the law? It had to be rushed. That reform - it is true - was approved by a referendum, but it has produced many disgusting, many problems. However, it had to be done and therefore for fifteen years the citizens have suffered the imperfections of this system. More recently we have seen it with the metropolitan cities. It doesn't matter if the doctrine claims the inopportunity that these automatically coincide with the boundaries of the Provinces. Patience! The important thing is to be able to say that it has been done. The Provinces have been dissolved, or at least someone says so. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we not going to vote and once we have a new Parliament legitimized by a vote that is not affected by an electoral law that has been declared unconstitutional, only after that, do we perhaps begin to reason to try together to work on a serious reform? Yes, but only after Parliament has been legitimized by a vote. It's not that because you took 40% at the last election we think it's not fair to go and vote. We don't care, because that 40 percent you took took it once but you won't take it again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What are the fears that drive this majority to close up around their "Dear Leader" (the North Korean one) and to use these methods? If this is your method it will never be ours. But let's get into the substance of the changes. There would be so much to say and it would take a long time. My colleagues in the 1st Commission (but not just them) explained to me the criticalities of the text that emerged in the debate and explained the amendments that we have produced with great detail. We have proposed changes that could have improved the way things were done for us, and I thank them for that. But let's focus on the whole (we have said so many), on the whole of the reform, the electoral law proposed by the Government of Renzi and Berlusconi (yes, so much they are together and it's a fake to say the opposite); what will this whole produce on the democratic representation of our country? As we have already said, we will have a stronger government and a weaker Parliament. Exactly the opposite of what would be desirable. On the altar of that hard-won idiocy that you call governability you are setting up a system that you believe is more solid, but which instead will produce greater conflict. Italy is a democratic country, despite the twenty years, and if a political part occupies too many spaces the people rebel. Don't you ever think that the people might rebel? No, but it could happen, who knows. If you take away too many democratic spaces from him, maybe the people get nervous and that's dangerous. The path drawn by the Democratic Party through its representatives is clear and can only be defined as a dictatorship of the majority that occupies without the right counterweights all the ganglia of our democratic system. In fact, entering into the merit of the choices made, we see how to direct election you prefer the election of second degree: in the local realities, in the Unions of Municipalities where mayors make the decisions, as well as in the new agencies of vast area (former Provinces or Metropolitan Cities). Now second-degree elections are also expected for the Senate of the Republic: someone appoints someone else. But why are you afraid that the people will democratically elect their representatives? Why do you prefer this model to another one made of nominations and nominations? All these appointments take place in many bodies and we often name people like the presidents of the harbour Authorities, of ENI, ENEL or Finmeccanica, people who are always appointed and who have much power. For the harbour authorities we had proposed, for example, to confer the task of president for contest but in the Commission we have heard that there is the dominance of politics. The predominance? You have established the increase in the number of signatures required for the popular initiative bill from 50,000 to 250,000, you have increased to 800,000 signatures needed to request the referendum and you have only little touched the quorum. We had proposed the abolition of the quorum: a quorum of zero for the repealing referendum. Why don't you have the courage to do these things? It's not complicated, it's small. We have proposed solutions to reduce the number of Members, and we have said so proudly and humbly, because pride without humility is pride. There are solutions to reduce the running costs of the institutions. Here too, proudly and humbly, we set an example by reducing our salary. It would be enough to copy. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, outside the parts that we represent in this House, how it is possible for you, when it was Berlusconi who proposed the same changes to the Constitutional Charter, to have activated all possible channels, political and civil society, in order to avoid what you called the dictatorship of one over all others at the time. The changes we have proposed are basically almost the same as you proposed in the PD in 2006: why did you reject them, since they are yours? In short, in the end, we should return to ensuring that citizens have more strength. I did a very quiet surgery, without yelling, because maybe you understand it better with the mellow voice. Maybe that's how you like it, being persuasive. But we can also become very, very angry. We'll see about that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u98	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional bill we are examining today is not the result of a thoughtful examination of the needs of our people; it is not a response to the need to improve our legislative system; it is not a measure to rationalise or reduce the costs of politics: it is nothing more than a hasty attempt to adapt our form of Republic to the needs of a national Prime Minister. Already, national mayor: it is not a term used at random, it seems that this new institutional conformation wants to approach the management model of a municipality, concentrating as many powers on the central government, with the excuse of giving the country an accelerated not towards greater efficiency, but towards a debasement of democracy. The plan that emerges is that of a Parliament more submissive to the Government, of local authorities (in particular the Regions) deprived of legislative power and of functions transferred to a central government, with a Parliament formed by a fake Senate, made of nominations that do not disturb the maneuvers, without however reducing the costs in a meaningful way, and a surviving Chamber, still of elephant composition, without cuts of salaries or costs; with the institution referendary and that of the laws of popular initiative developed and crippled by a huge increase of the number of signatures necessary for the proposals of the citizens, always in order not to disturb those who command. But it is on the relationship between the state and the regions that I intend to focus my attention. This draft Constitutional Reform Act provides for the revision of Title V, Part II, of the Constitution, but the proposed installation in the current reform is certainly not functional to the solution of the problems caused by the 2001 reform. In substance, the reform provides for the abolition of the concurrent legislation between the State and the Regions, the one in which the State dictated the principles, with framework laws for reasons of homogeneity, and the Regions implemented them with their laws. It is clear that in this way decisions on our territories, on our lives, would be significantly removed from the people. The Declaration on Regionalism in Europe, approved by the Assembly of the Regions of Europe (ARE) on December 4, 1996, supports article 3, paragraph 1, that the division of competences between the State and the Regions is governed by the Constitution or by laws in accordance with the principles of political decentralization and subsidiarity. By virtue of these principles, duties must be carried out at the level closest to citizens. It is clear that in Italy we are going in the opposite direction. Although the Declaration of the ARE is not a document of law value, it is nevertheless a charter of principles similar to the great declarations of principle often recalled by the world community. The new framework lists the new state competences that have been removed from competing legislation. If the problem that the reform aims to solve is that of the "those who do what they do and therefore of the litigation that is created before the Constitutional Court, blocking or invalidating many laws, it is not understood how this reform would resolve it. The new definition of competences does not seem to be resolving the problem in question: what work will be considered as "infrastructure provision" (regional) and what "strategic infrastructure" (state)? And with the envisaged supremacy clause, for which, on a proposal from the Government, the law of the State may intervene in matters not reserved for exclusive legislation when the protection of the legal or economic unity of the Republic, or the protection of the national interest, requires it, it guarantees a potentially almost absolute central power. The Government will be able to use the supremacy clause to impose itself on the Regions, by discreetly bringing any law within the concept of legal or economic unity of the Republic of the Republic or of protection of the national interest. With regard to the use of this clause, it is easy to envisage another crippling dispute, without saving any work at the Constitutional Court. We come to the theme that is most important to me: that of special autonomy. Without abolishing Article 116 of the Constitutional Charter (it is proposed to abolish only paragraph 3), the new legislation provides for a substantial emptying of the special autonomy. In fact, the changes provided for in Article 117 draw a scenario in which a long series of competences is transferred to the state level, which involve the same subtraction of competences to all the Regions, be they under special statute or ordinary statute. It is not possible to do otherwise, it is expected that the new legislation will enter into force, with regard to the Regions with a special statute, only after their mandatory adjustment of the respective autonomy cards, but autonomy risks remaining only the name. Only thanks to the choral disagreement from the regions concerned, the competent Commission has fortunately introduced the understanding for the adaptation of the Statutes of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, but this is not enough. The claim to cut a myriad of competences historically attributed to these Regions, for obvious historical and geographical reasons, undermines to the roots the institutional pact of 1948, which at the same time sanctioned the indivisibility of the Republic and the autonomy of the Regions with special Statute. Without the second (autonomy) he would no longer have the right to exist the first (individibility). Here again, I would like to recall the 1996 Declaration of the ARE, which always states in Article 3, paragraph 3: "Regions must be responsible for all functions having an eminently regional dimension" and in paragraph 6 of the same article explicitly states that "State decisions or measures concerning regional competences or interests cannot be adopted without the prior agreement of the regions concerned." But this reform precedes the agreements with the Regions, imposing them immediately to those with ordinary Statute and creating a unilateral precedent also with respect to the agreements with those with Special Statute, providing an understanding on adaptation rather than on new relationships to be rewritten together. In the Special Statute of my Region in Article 5, it is provided that "saves the competence provided for in the two preceding articles" - the list of matters on which the Region may issue legislative norms - "the Region may adapt to its particular requirements the laws of the Republic, issuing norms of integration and implementation on the following subjects: " - follows a list including - "d) in other matters provided for by laws of the State". From this example we can understand how impacting the weight of the reform could be, especially for regions with special status. One of the arguments I feel, in order to support the need to standardize the Regions with a special statute to the ordinary ones is that the Autonomous Regions misuse the funds they have. True; indisputable; but if that is the problem the victims are just us citizens of these Regions with special statute, not the inhabitants of the others! The inhabitants of these regions, also not a symbol of political and administrative virtues, suffer damage from the bad government of their own Region or State, which I do not think is to be erected as a symbol of great purity in comparison with the regional bad government. If something is badly administered the solution is not to entrust the administration to other bodies distant from the territory, but to change mechanisms of law and perhaps even political class. The loss of resources to the Regions with a special Statute would not increase the availability of the other Regions, because the increased competences that would be transferred simultaneously by the Regions with a special Statute to the State would end up absorbing, perhaps more than proportional, those same resources that someone imagines to share among the Regions all. However, let us return to the Regions with a special statute and in particular to the one from which I come: Sardinia. There are numerous political documents and positions in Sardinia that have characterized the recent debate on the division of powers between State and Region, or, if we can afford, between State and Country, since, according to the most common criteria of definition of the concept of Nation, our island can safely claim to fall into this category. It seems clear to everyone, from the content of the debate in progress, that the Sardinians consider the current powers conferred on Sardinia by the laws in force, as well as by their often questionable application; for this reason we find ourselves in the paradoxical situation in which, while we are going to ask for more autonomy, someone arrives who, without so many compliments but with an exemplary arrogance, proposes to parade from under our noses also that little autonomy implemented thanks to our fundamental Charter. Even among lawyers it is discussed whether a reform of the special autonomy, which in fact could reduce them to little more than a symbolic puppet, could be approved against the will of the autonomous region. During the hearings held recently at the Bicameral Committee on Regional Affairs on the subject of regional self-government, many invited experts (mostly professors of constitutional law) stressed the need to take account of the pactic nature of the set of rules concerning regional specialties. Some say that since 1948 the reasons of the Special Statutes have failed, but I do not think that in Trentino-Alto Adige it has ceased to speak in German and Ladin. In that region the recognition of autonomy is even prior to the same Constitution (with the De Gasperi-Gruber agreement), while in Sicily (with the oldest Parliament in Europe) the Statute existed prior to the Constitution. How do you adapt them to constitutional reform, as if they were any article of the same? And Sardinia? Have the reasons for the specialty failed? I tried to look at the map. I turned it upside down, turned and turned it around, but Sardinia, I assure you, continues to remain detached from the Italian peninsula. I also tried to search from the plane to see if some land language had by chance dried up a portion of Tyrrhenian, gathering in a contiguous territory Sardinia and Italy: nothing, the sea is always there. It is difficult to find, all over the world, islands of size and with the population of Sardinia that are managed by the State of belonging without some form of autonomy to adapt the law to the condition of insularity. Cases of self-government in Europe are found in Finland, France (with Corsica and Overseas Territories), Portugal (with Madeira), Great Britain (with Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland), Spain (with Catalonia, the Basque Country and Galicia). Find me in Europe a large and populous island like our Sardinia or Sicily that do not have special forms of autonomy. Moreover, if the construction of a road in Tuscany can also be useful to Ligurians who had to go to Lazio or to the Piedmontese who wanted to go to Campania - and therefore it can make sense to make the decisions of the case at national level - what sense does it have to decide in Rome which roads should be made in Sardinia or which energy sources we should use in Sardinia, since this would not interfere with similar decisions in the Peninsula? Since the birth of civilization, Sardinia has had to undergo dominations of all kinds and only due to a chance of history has it found itself part of the same State with the Italian Republic. Despite the succession of countless foreign dominations, our land has always managed to maintain forms of local self-determination, beginning with its language, much older than the Italian language, and its culture, which is rooted in the first forms of architecture evolved in Mediterranean Europe, over 3,500 years ago. What role is there for us? Still the one of the past, which saw most of the woods of our island brutally eliminated to supply wood the Peninsula? Or that of supplying meat-man for slaughter in military activities such as the carnage of World War I, of which we remember the sad stories of Emilio Lussu in "One year on the plateau"? Or as a prey to businessmen and coast cementors or as a place of experimentation of weapons and destructive military technologies in huge military polygons? I believe that a land like Sardinia, which today as always can be called a Nation, and which by historical chance is part of the Italian State, deserves a relationship with this State with the dignity that gave it the 1948 Constitution. Sardinia is a nation with its strong peculiarities, and this is testified by our flag, much older than the Italian flag and recognized throughout Europe; a testimony of our existence and our being, which cannot be simply adapted prior to understanding identity historically and geographically far from us. "Em a bolli donai a sa chi arrapresentat su governnu, sa bandera nosta. Speru diaderus chi s'arreforma de bosaterus sperefundata siat e aici puru is crecus de unu merixeddu schinnitzosu. I translate: I want to give to those who represent the Government our flag and I hope that his and your authoritarian reform will fail miserably, like the ambitions of a capricious Premier. (Senator Cotti, waving the Sardinian flag, approaches the benches of the Government and hands over the flag to Minister Boschi). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u100	Senator, you can give it away but don't wave it, so give it to the parliamentary assistants who deliver it. After that, Gigi Riva is not present in the Chamber. Colleagues, since the end of the session is scheduled for 22 o'clock, that is in 10 minutes, in order to allow the Divine Senator to carry out his speech entirely using all 20 minutes at his disposal, I postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u101	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-277.ana.u102	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday 15 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.49.
