ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u10	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, last night we learned - and this morning we have been confirmed by the reading of the newspapers - that a judgment of the Court of Cassation, applying the statute of limitations, has sent the perpetrators of a very serious crime, which has produced and is continuing to produce the death not of some unit, but of thousands of Italian citizens. I believe that this sentence should be commented upon by us and I wish to express my deep disagreement with the way in which the law has been interpreted. I disagree because it has been interpreted differently from what happened in the previous two levels of judgment and I disagree for a substantial reason, Mr President: asbestos-induced cancer is a disease that can have its harmful effects decades later, until thirty years after the citizen's being contaminated. It is therefore a crime that, if we were to apply the prescription by these methods, it could actually go, basically, perpetually unpunished and frankly I think that this cannot be the objective of the legislator. We have a duty to get back to the rules of limitation, and this is a duty that Parliament must give priority to, but at this moment, today, we have a duty to say that we strongly disagree with this decision of the Court of Cassation. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u13	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we too are very close to the relatives of the victims of those tragedies that have occurred over the years, but I did not fully understand President Zanda's speech. We allow ourselves to comment on a judgment of the Court of Cassation declaring the prescription of a crime. Instead of commenting on the judgment, I think we should comment, and therefore hold ad hoc meetings, on the progress of the trials in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] It is too easy today to say that the Cassation has acquitted the guilty: the Cassation has applied the law, because when the law allows, following a crime, the course of a number of years almost unlimited without reaching a decision, one must speak of maljustice. However, this is not a matter of malpractice dependent on the judgment of the Supreme Court, but on what Parliament is unable to do in relation to the abbreviation of the terms that must exist. That is the commitment that Parliament must make. This is what this judgment must teach us, because it is no longer possible for very serious facts such as these to be covered by the prescription, without any responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-Pdl Group XVII.]] BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Tell Guariniello it took him 20 years! BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). When, however, instructors on facts such as these cover a very long period of time - and I am pleased that today the discussion on the responsibility of magistrates is closed - it is necessary to understand well why the magistrates think they are running in some trials and instead for other trials to slow down the march. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia.]] As you can see, Mr Zanda, we are not dealing with such a serious matter, as I believe that the whole of Parliament agrees to be close to the relatives of the victims. It is also true that if a warning is to come from that sentence, the warning is only for us, for our responsibilities, because over the years we have failed to approve the necessary reform on justice that puts at the centre not the lawyer, nor the magistrate, but the citizen. [[Applause from the FI-Pdl Group XVII.]] Today we tend very often to give the judiciary a cover that is not due to it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u16	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Colleagues, I associate myself with the expressions of great discomfort and pain for what this sentence entails, namely the denial of justice to so many Italian citizens in such a serious case. However, I believe that, as a Parliament, we must assume responsibility for the failure - until now - to revise the statute of limitations. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] At the same time, I believe it is unfair to give the judiciary the delay, when Parliament, in the last legislative years, has worked on a series of procedural reforms that have lengthened the time and made the exercise of the judiciary more difficult. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I would add that in these days we have seen how much more politics has, towards the judiciary, an attitude of suspicion and miscelebrated irritation for what the judiciary has done, namely to treat all citizens in the same way, whether they are white collars or low-level criminals. Now, at this point, talking about bad justice or contesting judgments does not seem to me to fit Parliament's position. We must put our hands back at the prescription school and we must consider that justice without money, as it has happened and as it continues to happen more and more, cannot work well. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of this subject, I will give the floor to one representative per group and therefore I think that many requests for action that have been received will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u20	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, listening to what you have said, I must say that in this case Senator Bruno is more right than Senator Zanda is. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Palma]] The Cassation, in fact, has correctly applied the law. Of course we had to say it all: it has applied the law and, in particular, the principle of limitation after a number of years. That is the law and the magistrate is required to apply it. But the fault of this law is yours, not the magistrate's, because you voted the statute of limitations. The 5 Star Movement didn't participate in this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, the moment you disassociate yourselves, what do you disassociate yourself from? From yourselves? A decoupling of the brain? The mouth says one thing, and the brain says another? [[Comments of Senator Favero]] It's the truth. You voted for the prescription! [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u21	Colleagues, let's stay calm. Each one makes his own considerations with ease.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u22	You're welcome, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). Also in the matter of prescription have been presented some drafts of law from the 5 Star Movement that go to touch this institute, drafts of law that you are well guarded from putting in calendar. What a case! Continue with these declarations of disassociation but in fact you are always at zero. Another thing I want to point out to you is that at the moment when the Cassation puts a "x" on the word "asbestos", it will place it every time that "asbestos" will be replaced by the expression "onnesso di causa", i.e. the link between a polluting calamitous event and the health consequences because this problem is with depleted uranium, with the polygons that are in Sardinia, for example, or with all the pollution that has produced Ilva, for example; even in that case, how will the process close? With a nice prescription? Will you dissect then? Are we going to be quiet for two minutes instead of one? Creep the avarice: even three, even ten minutes of silence! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yeah, maybe we should all shut up and stop talking and start with the facts. Now me and all of us challenge you and get you out of here. A draft law has already been tabled to amend the rules on prescription; if it is true what you said before, this bill ends in the Commission this afternoon! If you don't, you just have to go hide because the right place for you is the deepest mine on earth, where everything you say will remain self-referential to yourself. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u25	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I, at least because I am Piedmontese, believe that I must associate myself, even in a moved way, with the words of Senator Zanda and with what has been expressed in this House in relation to the outcome of this judgment, because we cannot fail to grasp, as legislators, not only the deep discomfort but the anger and bitterness of people who have been deeply affected by important affections in recent years, for facts that have brought to their knees so many European realities and in particular the city of Casale Monferrato. However, I believe that this opportunity should be taken so as not to trigger a controversy about past stories or unclosed conflicts in these twenty years of judicial war. We must also take account of the negative aspects of this judgment, which we all have a duty to read, study and deepen, much more than what we have been able to learn in a few hours from the newspapers, than a reformulation of the crime of disaster, especially when it comes to environmental disaster. Secondly, we must abandon the normal process of examination and give urgency to the discussion of the bill amending environmental crimes, which has already been approved by the House. We must take the opportunity offered by yesterday's judgment to see whether it is not appropriate to intervene on the definition of the case. In my opinion, acting on the prescription does not make any sense; it makes sense to ask ourselves whether, compared to some types of disaster, the crime should not be considered permanent. As a third reflection that I wish to carry out, I hope that the Eternit- bis process, which is for murder and not for disaster, can give satisfaction to the need for justice that has been in place for almost fifty years now, since a causal link has been established between the production of eternity and the deaths that have occurred, and let us really find the reasons for a harmony between law and justice. How much we take from the sentence, which as all the sentences we want to respect, is in fact precisely the fracture in the relationship between law and justice, which certainly does not make a person like me lose the need to recognize its strong value, also as a link of cohabitation within our home, to the positive right and not to the ethics that precedes it, that we cannot impose by law, not being recognized by all in the same way. Faced with this judgment we all certainly feel the need to restore the gap between law and justice and, therefore, both in relation to what will happen with the Eternit-a process, and the acceleration to be given to the modification of the bill on environmental crimes and with a different definition of the environmental disaster, we can help to heal that fracture that today deeply tears us inside.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u28	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I too would like to express, on behalf of the Group to which I belong and of my Party, my total and unconditional solidarity in particular with the families of the victims of Casale Monferrato and the other sites of Italy which, over the years, have been affected by this disaster. I would remind you that my city, Bagnoli, which is unfortunately little mentioned when it comes to asbestos, has also been in the course of these years, and unfortunately it is still today, affected by the phenomenon. President, people still get sick and die of cancer in Casale Monferrato like in Bagnoli. Therefore, I express all the solidarity of my Group by saying that our political battle, which has been going on for many years on this subject, does not stop even before a judgment - in our view - wrong. I agree with what President Zanda said earlier in this House. I hope that what has happened will be a definitive stimulus for Parliament to do what has not been done over the years and to have much more courage in moving forward, without delay, for the immediate definition of environmental crimes and the introduction into our code of environmental disaster. Unfortunately, our legislation has fallen back on this and does not take into account what has happened in Italy over the last few years. I believe that the memory that this Parliament will be able to give to the families of those victims, to those who today feel struck by a profound injustice, and also probably to those who died not only once but twice after yesterday's sentence, is first of all to amend the legislation so that what happened yesterday can never happen again. [[Applause from Senator Broglia's Mixed-SELE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u31	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I have the impression that our debate this morning is at risk of going off track, even if it is animated by the best intentions. Asbestos should have been the subject and, in the alternative, if it is considered to be the case, yet another, more or less sterile debate on prescription terms can also be put in place. Why am I talking about asbestos? Because it's up to the Senate to claim the honor of its own history and history. In the last parliamentary term, Mr President, a committee of inquiry chaired by a Member who is not in the Senate in this parliamentary term, a colleague of the Group chaired with prestige by Senator Gasparri, Senator Costa, worked a long time, a couple of years or so, and produced an intelligent and qualified report, which, from the implications of asbestos from the military point of view, addressed all asbestos issues on civil land. One of the most active collaborators of that work was Dr Guariniello, a magistrate who was far from very diligent in the matter of which Mr Susta would like to change the criminal qualification and others would like to correct, if I understood correctly, for the same murder, the prescription terms. Therefore, our way of being close to the memory of thousands of people who are no longer there is to do everything possible, even in this legislature, for that text of the Senate to be known and disseminated and offends our work the fact that in so many journalistic fights, around the Cassation, the judiciary and politics, about that humble, but incisive product of our work, the report of my colleague Costa, has become so silent. In this spirit, our Group is associated with the sorrow for the memory of the victims of this affair. [[Applause from Senators Dalla Tor and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u34	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I agree with the regret expressed in this House about the outcome of the ruling. The question, however, dear friends and colleagues, is this: either we make laws that allow us to manage even difficult situations in order to match the general interest with the individual one, or we follow the circumstances from time to time to assess whether our law has produced in a judgment a result that we like, or not. Rules are rules and, unfortunately, also apply when situations become unpleasant, as in this case. The principle of limitation has been in force in the liberal order for a number of centuries, and we must seriously assess the consequences of those time limits. Having said that, the biggest problem is not in the prescription, but in the functioning of justice in our country. I would like to remind you that last year, together with other colleagues, I tabled a proposal for the law of a Commission of Inquiry into the State of the Administration of Justice in Italy. We cannot, in fact, from time to time assess in a positive or negative way an issue according to the result more or less coincident with our point of view, but we must actually identify the factors of inefficiency of our judicial system: the lack of resources, the quality of interventions, obviously the timing of the prescriptions and the indeterminateness of the regulations that we make available to the operators of justice. Today there is a reference in the newspapers to the fact that recourse to the TAR is very often the result of legislation that is not timely in its objectives. They are all elements that we must put on the table and not unleash the wall of crying the moment we see something that doesn't work. Of course, this is a judgment that leaves us bewildered, but at the same time we must demand respect for the rule, always, in any situation, even when we do not like it, and it seems to me that the intervention of the Supreme Court from this point of view is impeccable. [[Senator Dalla Tor's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u37	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, President Zanda raised the ball and now obviously bounces from one side of the field to the other. It was imaginable that the session would open with this type of theme, because today all the front pages of the newspapers and all the comments go in this direction. The first point I have to make is: how do all the other Members already read the sentence? I didn't get a chance to do that, and I think that's unlikely enough for everyone here. The news has come out in the newspapers, but if Parliament is debating newspaper articles, damn it, we are making another serious mistake and above all we are missing another time of respect for a truth that should not be commented on, but respected. Let me make one more point. But wasn't it in these very Aules that were always said that the sentences are not commented, but are they respected? [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Serra.]] I don't want to go against the current and I don't want to do salmon that goes up the river against the current, but at least we have some consistency, at least formal. Then we want to talk about merit? We will read what has not worked in this matter and in this criminal proceedings and, as legislators, we will certainly be able to draw some useful comments and considerations from it. However, there is an objective assessment to be made. We are not talking here about something small, although frankly we have not been talking about it for a day, but for several years, but the same bewilderment must characterize us for the prescriptions that also distinguish the individual causes of the individual citizens, who find themselves, after years, not having justice because their own proceedings were mistreated during the passages from one court to another. I don't feel like judging the magistrates' work without reading the sentence. I can, however, consider, as we can all do, that there are citizens who have suffered damage and who today find themselves not having a justice which, at least, gives answers. But who were the public officials at the time, who were the administrators, what was the policy of the Region, the municipalities and the State itself that had to deal with the protection of the health of the citizens? Do we not have responsibilities today, albeit indirect? We have to ask ourselves, and here the government should give answers, if we do not have to address the Eternit issue in a thorough way, regardless of the cause we are talking about, regardless of the criminal trial we are talking about. Because even today there are people who are dying from this type of disease, and still today there are situations of environmental pollution that are not addressed and resolved. Here is a government representative: do we need money and resources? Yes, money and resources are needed. Let's take this opportunity seriously, not simply finding the satisfaction of saying: "This is the responsible", because it will never pay; when you ask a person billions of euros to compensate, it will never pay. Let us ensure that, as in this law, the State recognises its negligent responsibility, takes responsibility for the costs that citizens are facing in the treatment of the diseases that have resulted from it and acts so that those responsible no longer commit this kind of crime. But, please, at least a little consistency, at least in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u40	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, I am experiencing a double discomfort: I would not like once again in this House, on such a dramatic subject, to divide ourselves for ideological reasons and for belonging, not taking into account a situation that characterizes our territory, not only some parts of Italy but also the whole country. I would not want words on words simply to hide a reality: that little, very little or almost nothing has been done or is done to protect the thousands of workers who have impacted with asbestos environmental pollution, whose causal link with cancer manifestations has been known for years. I believe that this judgment, on which I absolutely do not allow myself to enter, places a reference on our attention to our responsibility as legislators: what have we done? What are we doing? What can we do? Several measures are being examined by the Commissions, some of which are special and which also carry out an investigation. It is clear that we must limit more and understand how to define environmental crime and environmental disaster, understand how to give rise to greater criminality if there is environmental disaster and how to protect the health of these people, not abstract subjects, but people who have found themselves impacting on the environment with asbestos. I believe that there is little to add to the words and much to be done about our responsibility as legislators. My hope is that in the protection of workers this House, all of us senators not divided by belongings but united by a common feeling, not "possa", that it would be evocative, but "must", in an assertive way, find solutions not long, not short, but very short to give complete answers. Otherwise, forgive me if I use a slightly strong expression, it would be like washing your conscience in a verbal ventilator to which they do not follow facts while I believe that our task as legislators, as well as arguing in the area of law and legislation, is to carry out measures that are fulfilled. These are the warning and the imperative dictated by the sentence and, even more so, by thousands of family members who have experienced the tragedy of death or who live the tragedy of cancer diseases in progress. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u43	IN MAY (GAL). Mr President, I will not join in the rhetorical bulge or the prevailing hypocrisy of the speeches I have heard in this House, because I believe that in front of those who point to the moon, one should not look at the finger but it would be much better to look at the moon. What do I mean? The arguments we are making here this morning focus on the effect of a sentence. By the way, although I am at my first parliamentary experience, I think I have seen a lot in this House, but I never expected the Parent of the Related Majority Party to attack the judges for the mere fact that they apply the law. Perhaps the fundamental problem for us who are a legislative assembly - although I think we have quite forgotten about this function - would be to identify the causes. Well, if we have to identify the causes, perhaps it would be better to ask why this wretched industrial policy has allowed such polluting sites to be placed in inhabited areas. I wonder then if our hypocrisy can have a whisper of dignity and perhaps begin to look at what we are doing at the moment, because with the decree unlocks Italy perhaps we are opening a whole series of new construction sites that will bring other tumors and other deaths and I would not want a tumor in the South, in Basilicata or Sicily, to have a different dignity compared to the tumors of Piedmont. We're doing exactly that. We should be asking ourselves about our function and whether the laws that we vary in this House may or may not be significant in relation to the celebrations that we are then, I repeat, with great hypocrisy in this House. On behalf of the LAG Group and the People's Party for Italy, I join in the pain of the victims, but I think it would be much better if we re-appropriated our role and began to look much more closely at the laws that this Parliament frees in the context of the country. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u45	You have the right to do so. I give you the floor not on behalf of the Group but as President of the Health Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u46	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, thank you very much for this kindness. I am speaking on behalf of the entire Health Commission and I also believe in the Environment Commission, whose President we proposed this morning to produce a concrete act, namely to ask the President of the Senate for a deal on asbestos. Is it little? Is that a lot? It is a concrete fact, because we cannot confine ourselves to a debate on justice because there are human lives at stake and not only, alas, in the Piedmontese area, but throughout Italy. I therefore believe that a Parliament resolution is one of the best avenues to commit the government in practice to legislative procedures which, however, have much longer times. Asbestos is urgent, the lives of the workers, their families and the citizens involved are moral, institutional and political obligations that the two Commissions will place on the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-MovX groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u49	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, in the light of the debate that took place during the first few minutes of the morning, and above all on the basis of the stimuli coming not only from us but also from other Members of ours, we ask that the following draft laws be speeded up: n.1384, at the first signature of Senator Cappelletti, on the limitation of offences; n. 1345, which includes among the signatories Mr Micillo and laying down new provisions for environmental offences and draft law n. 1314, at the first signature of Senator Nugnes, laying down provisions for environmental control. So, if it is true what you have said, if you really believe in the words you have spoken this morning, let us carry out these draft laws and let us begin to make Parliament work on issues that really concern citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u50	Of course, this is a subject that can be the subject of the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u52	You have the right to do so. Having previously given the floor to the President of the Health Commission, I now give the floor to the President of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u53	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I take the floor at the end of the speech by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement to inform the House. The draft law on limitation is the subject of a procedure of agreement between the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber as some of them are being investigated before the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies. As a result, until the President of the Senate communicates the outcome of the agreements, it is clear that justice will not be possible to schedule those measures in the Commission. If I have not misread the note of the Presidency of the House, the understanding will end in the sense that the draft law on prescription will be dealt with first by the Chamber of Deputies and then by the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u54	I confirm to the House that the conclusion of the agreements between the Presidency of the Senate and the House was in this sense so that the issues could be dealt with, subject to the assent of the Presidents of the Commission, starting from the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u55	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1070, 315 and 374. I would remind you that yesterday afternoon's sitting saw the examination of the articles of draft law No 1070, in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u58	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I believe that we really must thank the Commission and the House for the work they have done on this measure. I do not want to use rhetorical words, but certainly more legislation had tried to overcome the Vassalli law, to heal a conflict that has lasted for twenty years, to close what has also been called a war in this House, by an illustrious member of the Justice Commission. I believe that the legislative intervention that we conclude today is balanced, because it guarantees the independence of the judiciary, realizes that the judicial order is not a power of the State itself but certainly fulfils the function of exercising the judicial power of this country, thus safeguarding the particularity of that public function and, therefore, also of those public officials to whom, often in an irreverent way, it is rebuked to be such, almost equivalent to important but certainly less important and less determining figures for the life of each of us; moreover, it restores a right of mortified citizens - and that has been mortified by statistics - that not only has been sanctioned by a referendum, that of 1987, but that is a right in itself, that, that is, to see compensation from the State (which, in turn, has the right to re-use itself) if, in the presence of serious violations of law, arsonal violations of law, inexcusable negligence - and I would have preferred that the word "negligence" be replaced by the word "imperizia" or "the latter" were added - the rights. I believe that an extremely important point of balance has been reached which marks a turning point in the relationship between the citizen and the State and, therefore, also between the citizen and politics and which is part of a series of initiatives that for a year now we and the successive governments have taken to reform justice, to recognize greater rights to prisoners, to improve the prison structure of our country, to promote alternative measures of punishment and, today, to establish a different way of assuming responsibility by the magistrates towards the citizens. Will this law really heal the rift that has been generated over the last twenty years, the war that has been fought, often with blows under the table, between politics, the judiciary, areas of politics and sectors of the judiciary? We will see what the answer will be, but in the meantime I believe that this initiative is important, just as important was the role of high mediation played by the Government that allows to bring home a measure that has been chased in more legislation and that had never found in that political climate the possibility of being implemented. In the light of this objective, there is still some continuing concern about some aspects of the legislation: I mentioned the question of malpractice, raised above all by the Group of the New Right Centre, but other aspects could be mentioned, and Senator Caliendo, like others in the Commission, also discussed some of these concerns with us. As in all the laws we need to achieve a balance point and we cannot fail to see in the elimination of the filter, for example, and in the right to resort to the very important concepts in order to be able to reaffirm the right of the citizen to be protected against the protection of parts of the State and the judiciary, who exercise their work dollously, with serious and inexcusable negligence. I believe that case law will also re-introduce the concept of malpractice in the offense of fundamental rights. This is the reason why we will vote in favour of this measure, which saves important principles, such as that according to which the magistrate is subject only to the law, but cannot fail to respond, albeit indirectly, through the revenge of the State, to the serious violations of the law for which he is responsible, also having to pay the consequences, even in his own pocket. I shall conclude by saying that the relationship between accounting liability, civil liability and disciplinary procedures must be reviewed, because they are one and the same. On the contrary, I believe that, from this point of view, better focus on disciplinary responsibilities will further strengthen the deterrent to the performance of acts that go against the fundamental rights of citizens. For these reasons I express the convinced vote of the Civic Choice Group in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u59	Our work is being attended by the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Faà di Bruno" in Rome, whom we greet and thank for their presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u62	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government, in the person of Vice-Minister Costa, but also Minister Orlando and, above all, the rapporteur, Enrico Buemi, who expressed the position of our Group within the Commission in the referent, for their patient mediation work, which led to a good text, after many years of discussion and controversy. I believe that we have greatly improved the current situation by removing the filter, which has made civil action too difficult for citizens, but taking due account of the particular position and function of the magistrates. In this way it will be possible to act judicially with less difficulty in the event of serious errors committed by the magistrates in the performance of their duties. I therefore hope that the House of Deputies will approve this matter quickly in order to close the dispute or infringement proceedings in the European institutions. I declare the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Valdinosis.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u65	Barani (GAL). Mr President, of course I do not think of it as the two authoritative colleagues before me, who obviously lack memory and therefore need political phosphorus, to bring them back to reality, because what matters is what we see, what our citizens have to endure every day, what our citizens have told us and tell us. Senator Susta, the diagnosis is made with the history and in 1987 more than 20 million Italians said that the independence of the judiciary is something that no one should touch. But what about the independence of the judiciary with the civil responsibility of the magistrates in cases where they commit stupidities or crimes of malice, gross guilt or great impriety (the theme we did not want to touch today)? The citizens had told us that impriety is a serious fault and that, therefore, it must be sanctioned. Some say that the magistrate is subject only to the law: but if he does not respect it he must be subject to the Italian people! I therefore believe that today we have missed the opportunity to apply and complete the sovereign will of the sovereign people, which was expressed with one of the instruments of high democracy, namely the referendum. And that's what we're being asked all the time. I'm a son of Loris Fortuna in DNA, and here we have very few socialist DNA. Surely it is not socialist who says it simply or who says, like Zanda, that the prescription must be removed because the Italians must be subjected to judgment for the whole of their lives. We have to lengthen trials, like torture, for life, like life imprisonment. You don't have to let people live anymore. What a shame! Whoever says that is not socialist! Whoever says this is just a coward! Today, therefore, Mr President, we are approaching the measure on the civil liability of magistrates with great regret, that is, with a retrograde and not with a contraceptive instrument of the Government with regard to a principle repeatedly publicly invoked by the President-in-Office himself. You remember how he looked good when he said, "Who's wrong is paying?" Then, apparently, it wasn't enough. We know what was enough: a warning on the father by the Genoa Public Prosecutor was enough to get not one, but ten, one hundred backtracks to his Executive and to change the idea by presenting an amendment to the Commission justice that in fact upset the work carried out until then with the majority of the Commission justice itself (fact that I denounce for many years), including Lumia, Casson and the 5 Star Movement. Mr President, we are already preparing for a referendum on the abolition of the Vassalli law, which has failed, and to return to the previous one which, at least, contained direct responsibility. On the subject of the civil responsibility of the magistrates by the government they had only proclamations, but nothing was done to comply with the will of the Italians who pronounced themselves in the referendum of 1987, which I have already recalled, which obtained twice the votes of the current majority between Chamber and Senate represented by the Democratic Party. A result never mentioned even by the supporters of the popular consultations, who seem to have forgotten that result by preferring to focus on what emerged during other referendums. Take a good look at the judges thinking the same way I do. Many are, in fact, judges who believe that professional responsibility is necessary, especially the majority who work serenely and seriously applying the constitutional dictation of justice and not favoring themselves and their own image to perhaps ascend to other offices. In fact, in the Commission, the Government's amendment, which blocks any hypothesis of direct responsibility for the togae in relation to its work, was approved thanks to the votes of the PD and the 5 Star Movement (true majority of this Commission, as I have already said). Even in the event of malice and gross negligence of the magistrate, citizens can directly defend themselves against those who have damaged and ruined them: it is the definitive death of justice, we have 007 with permission to do what they want (yes, even to kill). In fact, the principle for which, unlike all other professional categories, judges, in the name of the independence of the judiciary, also enjoy a sort of irresponsibility and freedom to prosecute anyone, even in the absence of the farthest and farthest clue, has been definitively established. In this way, of course, the Italian economy is also damaged, both because foreign investors will not arrive, which affect two points of GDP (which, I recall, is EUR 32 billion per year), and because this will lead us to suffer a sanction from the European Commission of Human Rights (and there have already been several). If it were to be found that an action of revenge by a citizen against a judgment was justified, it would not be the State, ladies and gentlemen, that is, all Italians with their own pockets, including the victim; only then can the State partially rely on the judge - as Mr D'Anna, now by my side, has said in general discussion - whose judgment is spoiled, it is worth remembering, by malice and gross negligence. But is this Italian democracy? Is this what the constituent Fathers wanted? I don't think so, to tell the Razzi. There has been no need for European references to this state of affairs, nor for tragic experiences of dubious, uncertain and dusty investigations, and then for the facts to be translated into a hole in the water. He chose to reiterate the civil irresponsibility of the judiciary, dear Senator Buemi, despite your amendments (and you have done so many, but you too had to back down, so you had few children - in the sense of amendments that really carried out your socialist DNA - because they didn't allow it to happen). This solution has been chosen, despite the distortions and potential damage that may result; it is clear that the possibility of working without being responsible for one's own work could easily lead to even daring actions or decisions resulting from rocambolistic interpretations of the law. Imagine what could happen by applying the same principle to a surgeon: these could get wild in the operating room, perhaps bypassing established medical protocols, procedures and doctrines and could be driven by the principle of immunity to dare, thus killing the patient. In fact, if there are protocols and procedures in all professional categories, there will be a reason: they make sense and must be respected, while those who deceive them and turn them to their own use and consumption must be punished and must be called to respond to their own actions, even against those who suffer damage from such behaviour, without whether or not. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to announce that our Group will vote strongly against, because the magistrates themselves are asking us to have the wrong party pay. The disciplinary regulations of the magistrates themselves are more binding, true and relevant to the reality of what we are doing. It is not making yourself look good with the magistrates who govern a country, we have to do it in the interests of the citizens and the citizens and the magistrates themselves ask us more seriously. With the referendum we will reverse this situation and with the next majority - hopefully as soon as possible, with new elections - we will finally be able to wipe out the communist culture, which is just justiceist [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u68	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on this measure today, on a day when, unfortunately, the news of the Eternit case, which is known to all of us, is being sounded down. Even more, therefore, we feel the weight of the work that we are called to do here. Almost thirty years have passed since the referendum in which the Italian people had expressed themselves in the sense of asking for a direct responsibility of the magistrates towards the citizens in case of judicial errors and it is not easy, to date, to think of a direct responsibility of the magistrate taking into account the nature of the judiciary, the division of powers, the independence of the judiciary. Today we are talking about this subject which has raised many difficulties, discussions and issues this summer. I am talking about this summer to silence the many years in which we talked about the problem of the reform of justice, the problem of civil backwardness, the problem of this Italian justice that seems to be placed at the last places in the international rankings and for a long time we have been talking about the error in which the magistrate may possibly incur. However, I would like to remind you of the course taken in the debate on this measure before it came to the House. Deadlines have been set for tabling amendments already at the beginning of the year, certain deadlines have been reopened, sub-amendments and amendments by the Government have been tabled. Not least, he had created the approval of the Chamber of Deputies - with a secret vote - during the examination of the draft Community law for 2011, of an amendment tabled by Mr Pini, which made a hypothesis of responsibility even direct by the magistrate. The original draft law, which had been incardinated, was subsequently amended, for which Minister Orlando must, in certain respects, be recognized as being of great value in terms of compromise and of the attempt to mediate between the will of Parliament and the citizens and the will of the Government. But if we meet any of our citizens, he will tell us that he would like to see the magistrate condemned directly, in case he made a mistake. Who, like me, has the luck (or the misfortune) to carry out the profession of lawyer, however, knows that when a person finds himself a judgment unfavorable, normally speaks of injustice and it is very difficult to make understand the distinction between a true injustice, perhaps due to a mistake, a bad conduct of the investigation, the bad conduct of a trial, and what instead is the application of a law: hard sex lex. It is not easy to find a meeting point and balance on such complicated legislation and it is difficult to make our fellow citizens understand what we are doing in this House and what we are discussing. The Vassalli law, for its installation, did not actually give rise to many recourses for hypotheses of civil liability of the magistrate. We could also say that we are lucky because there were probably few magistrates who made mistakes in Italy. It may or may not be, on the contrary, that there are difficulties in the procedure. We cannot, therefore, fail to appreciate the efforts made by the Government and Parliament to try to eliminate some of the difficulties contained in the Vassalli law. We cannot fail to recognise that changes have been made in a positive way, in our view. One of these is, for example, the abolition of the so-called filter, which was a first step to enable action to be started. As one cannot fail to appreciate an increase in the payback, i.e. the percentage of the salary that the magistrate would possibly have to pay in the event that his responsibility is recognized: at present it is a third and with the measure to our examination we would even reach half. You cannot fail to appreciate other passages that tend to extend the assumption of responsibility. In our view, however, what could be done has not been done: no courageous action has been taken and, above all, no proposal has been passed which had been put forward in the Commission, where it had also been discussed for a long time, and which has been re-submitted to the House by means of our amendment, according to which the magistrate is held responsible in the event that he departs, without adequate justification, from a judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. For those who do not know the subject, like many of our fellow citizens who listen to us from home, I understand that it is not easy to fully understand: in practice the united sections of the Cassation intervene when, for example, there are interpretative conflicts between the sections of the Cassation. This establishes a principle which we can hardly question. In our view this was an opportunity to further improve the text, but the proposal was not accepted. But above all, it is the procedure which, in our opinion, is absolutely lacking. As has been the case in these classrooms for a long time, the parliamentary initiative is being continuously directed or even stopped by government initiatives. Our Minister, Mr Orlando, has even come to say that if the bill at our examination had not been approved, a decree-law would have been enacted. More than suggestion this statement could be qualified in another unpathetic way. Furthermore, in our opinion, a major problem of this historical and political moment is the way in which the President-in-Office of the Council is conducting his political activity. We cannot talk about this bill as a reform, as a serious intervention to solve the problem of justice in Italy. Previously, unfortunately, there was talk of the sad case of the judgment on the Eternit case. This is not the way to solve the problems of justice in Italy and we do not pass it as a decisive hypothesis of the problems of justice and the Italian judiciary. This is yet another small passage that, in some ways, as we have said, we cannot even contest, but it is not the solution of the problem of justice. In Italy, in fact, shameful arrears have accumulated and it happens, as we read from the newspapers, that the first and second degree of judgment, court and Court of Appeal provide for a conviction and then the Court of Cassation reverses its content. Three thousand deaths, millions of euros already paid that will have to be returned: these are the problems. The 66 unsolved judicial cases investigated by parliamentary committees represent a problem. It is a problem to have to open procedures and revisit them continuously; it is a problem the incredible lengths, the incredible times of decision and assessment of cases. This is Italy's problem in terms of justice, and that is why we need courageous, serious, systematic action. The Group of the North League will try to make the maximum contribution and collaboration in order to reach the necessary solutions. We need courage, we must forget to "do the Italians" and always seek compromise, mediation and the solution-tampon. We need real courage and it is not easy, on the part of a government and the majority, to make decisions that are sometimes unpopular. The results, however, are seen in time and who will come after us will understand whether we have worked well or not. I believe that justice is a very important issue. With regard to today's news, I would like to close my speech by quoting the words of a journalist who died because of the toxic eruptions of the Eternit - Giorcelli - who says: "We demand justice for our dead, for our troubled families as if another war had been fought in our sky in the twentieth century, very long and exhausting and without the possibility of defending ourselves." Let's give all of us a chance, really, to defend ourselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u71	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we express, both as the Left Ecology and Freedom and as the entire Mixed Group, an abstention vote on this measure. In our view, it presents, yes, some necessary innovations, but it also brings some elements of contradiction, perhaps because of the too rapid and extemporaneous attempt to settle. Of course, we are well aware that the issue of the civil liability of magistrates is certainly a sensitive and problematic one, and from this point of view I would also like to say that we do not consider Parliament's work to be over. On the contrary, we hope that reading in the House will be able to clarify and improve certain aspects of this text which seem to us too contradictory and which make us, precisely, unwilling to vote in favour. I would also like to add, in advance, a further consideration before we go into the substance of the issue we are talking about. Given the great open issues in Italian justice, it would have been frankly much better and also much more understandable to present a different scale of priorities. It is not through this provision that some structural problems that afflict the justice of our country will be resolved. And while it is true that the urgency is due to yet another European infringement procedure, we find it very strange that Parliament and the Government have not yet found time to intervene on some of the essential points - in our opinion - [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , on the basis of those crimes against economic crime, such as fake money laundering in the budget, for example, simplification of interrogation, extradition and ratification of conventions. In short, these are the big issues still resoundingly open, which would have allowed to hit one of the greyest and most significant areas of our country. Corruption, tax evasion and mafias are the real burden that hinders investment, development and the creation of new jobs, as, moreover, we are always reminded, and not from today, of the associations committed to safeguarding the healthy economy and to combating the illegal economy. It is clear that they are not yet treated with the urgency they deserve. And from this point of view we really think that the scale of priorities for the issues to be addressed should have been another. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] In the same way, we believe that, on the major issue of civil justice, which also involves and affects the vast majority of citizens, a structural, systematic plan would be needed to improve all the performance of justice which, to date, does not yet see the light and shows a serious lack of intervention by the Commission. This measure on the civil liability of judges will not solve any of these structural problems that are still open. And, although it seems necessary to change the norms of a law, the Vassalli law, was nothing else because it has produced in more than 20 years a very poor application and that that discipline has appeared insufficient to guarantee to the full the protection of the citizens, but remains the fundamental theme: to determine a scale of priority able to give concrete answers to the most significant questions still open, which are the real emergency of justice in our country. As far as the substance of the measure is concerned, we believe that the text that arrives in this House is better than the original draft law and some of the substantive corrections, already proposed when the amendments were tabled, have indeed been accepted. From our point of view we consider it positive that Article 1 of the draft law has been deleted, which introduced into our law a form of direct responsibility on the part of the magistrates, and that at the same time the reference to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation has been eliminated as a parameter to relate the activity of the magistrate, in order to verify if the same can be considered as an assumption of irresponsibility. The fact that the concept that indirect and non-direct responsibility exists in Italy is, in our view, a positive one has been reiterated. The other most significant change is that represented by the elimination of the eligibility filter, precisely to overcome - as has been said also during these days - the poor application of the discipline of the Vassalli law. While we are, in principle, in favour of this type of innovation, we have read with concern some manifestations of dissent that we have seen over the past few days, some of which are very authoritative, including that of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This was a dissension which seemed to us to be more of a legitimate concern for a possible flooding of procedures than for other reasons, which were also recalled by the debate in general, but which, in our opinion, should really be held in another kind of order. The extension of the liability line, in our view, also meets a need for uniformity of treatment that justifies the amendment of the so-called Vassalli law, without forgetting that with the changes that Parliament will introduce, the damage resulting from an interpretative error leading to the manifest violation of national law will have to be compensated in the same way as the damage resulting from interpretative error leading to the manifest violation of European law. However, we would also like to add that there are still some elements of serious concern about the references to the Court of Justice alone and not to the European Court of Human Rights. In other words, we would not want it to be a more or less explicit reference to some excellent condemned, given also the history of this country that, from this point of view, in recent years, has not been so linear. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell.]] We are not opposed, within the framework of the maintenance of the safeguard clause, which is a bastion of the principles of autonomy and independence of the judiciary, to the two derogations which have been imagined related to malice and gross negligence. On the other hand, we have some doubts about the changes introduced to the regime of reval action, in particular on the elimination from the text of the paragraph which provided for a form of accounting liability in the event of failure to exercise the right of reval against the individual magistrate; eventuality that according to the current text would remain without consequences. We had also imagined a number of amendments on this subject which we tabled yesterday, but which unfortunately, to our regret, have been rejected. For all these reasons that I have tried to illustrate briefly, to explain that we consider this text a step forward in relation to the current discipline, but still bearer of some contradictions, we believe that the work of improvement should continue in the House. From this point of view, this measure can show that perfect bicameralism still makes sense. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] and that it should be done with the balance and common sense that have sometimes been lacking over the past few years. I would like to conclude by making a fundamental point. The autonomy and independence of the judiciary are essential elements of our democratic system and, as such, must be protected from all the wrong drives that have marked more than twenty years of political history of our country; the punitive intentions, on the one hand, which proceeded parallel to the many ad personam laws that represented a very unpleasant face of the medal and, on the other hand, the often judicialist drifts, as a response to this tendency, but creating further problems. In fact, at some point, the same justiceist drift ended up not even distinguishing a warranty notice from a sentence. We think that these opposite attitudes and pressures have been one of the great unresolved issues of Italy in recent years and that these adverse pressures should instead be opposed to seriousness, rigour, balance and common sense; everything that has been lacking in the course of twenty years of republican history. This measure, from this point of view, is a small step forward. However, it is not yet sufficient in our view, and that is why my Group will abstain. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u74	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, it was 1998 when, at dawn, in a house in Finale Emilia, a family was taken away with four underage children - I am talking about sixteen years ago - on a matter that concerned a priest, a bad story like that of Rignano Flaminio, characterized by black masses during the night and episodes of truculence. The lady then had a fifth child, and for eleven years she has been living exile in France with this 11-year-old boy, otherwise they would have taken him away from her. They have already been acquitted twice on appeal to Bologna. After the second acquittal, her husband died of a heart attack; he was a firefighter in a ceramic company and she is a kindergarten teacher. After sixteen years when they never saw their children again because they were brought to the four corners of Italy, having been acquitted for the second time they thought they could get out of this nightmare. But the Attorney General of Bologna said "I am serene" and again challenged the judgment in Cassation. Colleagues senators, we are in front of a judicial system that for sixteen years has held a family under trial destroying it and that, after two acquittals on appeal, has not yet been able to tell whether these people are guilty or innocent. I quote this case, which concerns two humble citizens, but I could mention, from 1992 onwards, cases of powerful ministers who were imprisoned and then acquitted. I am referring to the Mannino case because it was emblematic, but I could talk about that of Gava or the ninety Christian Democrats who, in the period 1992-1994, had a guarantee notice and ended up on the gratulate, but in 95 percent of the cases were, not prescribed, but acquitted on the merits or the accusations were filed. I could talk about the Prodi Government, prior to the last Berlusconi Government, with the judicial affairs of Mastella. In short, we are talking about a country in which, for the simple citizen or for the so-called powerful, there is no doubt that there is an Italian anomaly. I believe that only Italy is a country in which the function of the judiciary is capable of heavily influencing political life. I now believe that, historically, what has happened since 1992, with the destruction of five historical parties and the subsequent evolution, has been largely determined by the initiatives of the prosecutors. This seems to me to be an established historical truth. The same magistrates say that it is physiological that a trial lasts sixteen, seventeen or eighteen years. This is because they claim: in the first instance we felt that the truth was one; in the appeal we felt that the truth was another; the Supreme Court objected to postponing everything on appeal; the Court of Appeal redeceased, but everything was sent back again to the Supreme Court; the Supreme Court returned it again to appeal. Well, if you think that everything is okay, that everything is okay, because these are the procedures, then I believe that there is an Italian anomaly that has to be dealt with in some way. How? I understand the difficulties we have encountered in deepening the problem, because I too am one of those who have always thought: why the surgeon, the engineer, the lawyer, the state employee, anyone, responds if, because of gross negligence, negligence, cause of damage, while the magistrates do not respond? That is a question that public opinion is asking itself. I am rebuffed: because a magistrate decides, and when he decides there is always a succumbing part, so someone who can have reasons for complaint against the magistrate. Senator colleagues, we must say this clearly: the magistrate in Italy is not, as in other systems, a person who is excluded from society, who represents the law; he is mainly a gentleman who is part of a trade union organization or a political current, he makes politics, writes books, participates in debates, in some cases he explicitly says that with the action of the judiciary he wants to change society and politics, therefore he plays a real political function. The Supreme Council of the judiciary is organized in currents that make the party currents pale, because there are also the chairs, the armchairs, the desks, the pencils, the staff. And when you go to determine who is to be the prosecutor or the president of the court on one side or the other, the lottery is scientific; other than manual Cencelli! This is the real reality with which we confront each other. Returning to the subject under consideration, we must ask ourselves whether, as New Right Center, we are satisfied and happy with the outcome of this debate and the legislative product that will be dismissed by the Senate, in the face of these pathologies and the continuous interference of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the National Association of Judges, which try to seriously affect the activity of Parliament. If at least these subjects acted with great intellectual honesty! Unfortunately, on the other hand, we have had to read lunar robes and this makes me impression, because I am referring to texts that come from magistrates, people who should be impartial and administer the law. Last week the attack on Parliament was because it wanted the direct responsibility of the magistrates, while we all agreed, for a number of reasons, that there is no direct responsibility and there is only indirect responsibility, filtered, for which the state will respond and then this will be able to take advantage of the magistrate. But they keep saying that we want their direct responsibility. Then they accused us - and they sprung it there - of wanting to prevent the magistrates from departing from the judgments of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation. We have explained, in particular Senator Caliendo and many other colleagues, that it is not absolutely true, that we believe that the magistrates can very well depart from those judgments, but we would consider it appropriate that at least they motivate why they deviate from the citizen and the entrepreneur who rely on consolidated jurisprudence and lose the cause. But on this point, as I said, we couldn't come up with it. So when - I must say - Parliament is accused in bad faith of doing things that Parliament does not want to do, I fully realize that the magistrates, in the Senate Chamber and in the Chamber, still find formidable allies in some groups, such as that of the 5 Star Movement, which uncritically takes sides against the fireman and the asylum teacher of Finale Emilia, against the citizen who is massacred and gets no justice. They are not on the side of the citizens and the poor, but on the side of the powerful caste of the magistrates. This is the reality that we live! We are on the side of the citizens. We are on the side of those who claim to have justice and when we spoke this morning about asbestos I think I heard wise words from my colleague Bruno, from Forza Italia, when he said: yes, he takes the prescription, but how many trials have been there and how much time has been lost for nonsense with the fiction of mandatory prosecution? We have seen enormous energy expenditures on nothing, criminal proceedings ended in a drawer and forgotten there as the case, which I mentioned, of those desperately seeking justice for 16 years, and then little commitment to situations that would require some kind of attention. Just think of the process that has the scope and involved even the Head of State on the State-Mafia negotiation. An entire prosecutor for years has been working on a process that can have historical value and political value, but it has absolutely nothing legal. A process that only wanted to be a launch pad for one who wanted to make politics and then did not succeed and now goes to be a collaborator of a Sicilian junta to find a place. These are real facts that have a huge impact on the country's life. So, are we satisfied with this measure? We are voting in favour. We are not completely satisfied. However, with optimism we say that at least it is a step forward in the right direction, because it removed the filter provided for in the Vassalli law, which was grotesque. Is it possible, in fact, that on the basis of the Vassalli law, in 20-30 years in the context that I have just described, the magistrates have come to answer four times that they have not fulfilled their duty or that they have done things that are neither in heaven nor on earth because of serious fault? Clearly, something had to be done! [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I will conclude by voting in favour of this measure, hoping that the House will be improved, because Italy will not be a normal country until, as in all the countries of the world, the relationship between the citizens, the judiciary and Parliament finally becomes physiological and not pathological as it has been in the last thirty years. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u77	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day, a very sad day for thousands of families in our country who, after so many years, were waiting for justice and did not have it. It has been said that this law will not solve the problems of justice, it will not give justice to the thousands of deaths from asbestos. We need more laws and we need them now. We in the 5 Star Movement claim to have done our duty to the citizens who sent us here and who expected Parliament to pass a law of this kind, a just law. We must not forget that Article 1, which originates from this law, provided for an infamy: an attempt to attack individual judges directly. Thanks to us he didn't pass. We have played our role as opposition, as a great political force responsible for this country so that this law is not a mockery for the citizens who are waiting for justice and the attempt of revenge against the magistrates who do their duty. It will not be a perfect law, it will not be the best law hesitated by a Parliament, but it is certainly not the filthy one that someone, who here invokes castes, wanted and hoped for. And if it's not that scumbag, you know it's because of us. The 5 Star Movement is there and does not pull back in front of their responsibilities when there is the will to confront, when there is no wall. And this time we didn't find the wall, and you know it. So we will vote in favour of this bill. However, we shall be tabling amendments to the House because there are aspects that we do not share and do not convince us, but it is the play of parliamentary democracy that we accept. What we do not accept is that tomorrow we can think that the problems of justice with this law are over. We, from now on, must begin to face them because we have 3000 deaths demanding justice. We have to deal with the problem of prescription and we have to do it today, without games the House has started... we can't do it... It's not like that. It's been a year and a half that when things don't want to be done they say it depends on the fact that the House has already started doing them. We can do them, dear President, because when things are done, they are done. Since you have all expressed indignation at the injustices that are currently suffering thousands of families and others, the sick who are dying of that terrible evil caused by a murderous feat - because the prosecutions are now proceeding for murder - we invite you to turn this just indignation into a concrete fact: the immediate calendarization of the prescription. In fact, the prescription applied yesterday is not the daughter of the judges, but the sick birth of these Aules, the birth of a sick policy that prescribes most of our trials, because prescription means impunity. But we will never tolerate impunity again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u80	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this measure has accepted most of the amendments tabled by the Forza Italia Group and the identification of cases of gross negligence is due precisely to the amendments tabled by our Group. However, this measure seems a little unbalanced, it looks like Harlequin because it gives a series of indications in contrast to each other. We must realize that in our country there is a fundamental principle, recalled by this law: the State is liable for damages caused by errors of the judge only when the judge committed them by malice or gross negligence. There is no responsibility of the State apart from the responsibility of the judge. This was one of the first misunderstandings. The Government has also sometimes referred to this distinction, based on the European judgment which stated the need for the responsibility of the State. There is no doubt about this: the European judgment could not have been about the liability of the judges. Therefore, if a State's responsibility were to be established apart from that of the judges, the Vassalli law should not have been amended, but an ad hoc law should have been enacted which did not comply with Article 28 of the Constitution. Instead, it was preferred to operate on the Vassalli law and in this case the first assumption is what I recalled: the State responds only in the presence of malice or serious fault of the judge. We have identified cases of serious fault, with a specific indication (Article 2, paragraph 2, states in fact: "they constitute serious fault" and so on), but another dystonia is born and, even, a contrast between the two norms: on the one hand, in fact, it is stated that there is responsibility of the State in cases of serious fault of the judge, but then in the article relating to the revalsa refers to the cases of serious fault indicated, only if determined by malice. I explained it to you yesterday, excuse me, but President Renzi is right this morning, because he says that the judge has to pay everything, like any citizen, when it comes to dole. However, we write in the law that in case of malice the limit of revenge is not applied but, as a presupposition of the dole, we refer to the presuppositions of grave fault. On the one hand, therefore, it is stated that in the hypothesis of grave fault (Article 2) the State must answer, and on the other hand it is established that the revenge applies only for inexcusable negligence, which - you realize this - is a further contrast: the concept of serious guilt is not of doctrine, but is determined by the code that establishes precisely what is the serious fault that, in fact, is limited to a single hypothesis. This becomes a fairly unbalanced passage, because the state must answer for serious fault. And it's not possible that stupid thing I hear every now and then: you wanted to make sure the state answers and the judge didn't. It is not possible, because the premise of that law lies in the first part of Article 2, which states that the State only responds if there is a judge's error. Perhaps I stick more to the parliamentary techniques of the first Republic: when we discussed rights and principles there were no distinctions between majority and opposition. Instead, in this parliamentary term we find that many times majority reasons or sub-bank agreements lead to the adoption of fairly unbalanced rules. I'll tell you one. Yesterday passed the principle that the magistrate is always responsible for the erarial damage and has an accounting responsibility. I put the following question to you: the erarial damage, in the case of this case, is determined in the sum that the State is obliged to pay by mistake of the judge. However, it is also stated that accounting liability applies, which for all civil servants is equal to the amount paid by the State. On the other hand, it is said that there is limited revenge. How do you want to combine these two statements, present in the law? On the one hand, the judge, for the revenge, will have to pay only one side, but on the other he will have to pay the difference, as erarial damage. Otherwise you don't understand: I think this is an element that you can all appreciate. Furthermore, the measure under consideration is a measure which does not take into account the true claims of responsibility. The government felt, mistakenly, that perhaps this would satisfy a part of the judiciary, but that is not the case. By rejecting the amendment in which it was proposed that the judge should have taken into account the precedent of the Cassation, even with the possibility to justify otherwise, the main connotation of the judicial function, namely the freedom of the judge, was denied. And all this because of agreements and something that escapes reading, not only ours, but also the interpreter, who tomorrow will have to read the motivations. He will read that it was even said in this House that the words 'appropriate explanatory statement' were written about my amendment to Article 2. Apart from the fact that there would be nothing abnormal, but in the amendment the words "specific motivation" were actually written and nothing else: this meant a statement of reasons explaining the reason for the deviation from the direction of the Court of Cassation. Finally, it seems to me that there is some sort of Pontius Pilate who works when it comes to justice. In fact, great proclamations are made on the general principles, which then, translated into concrete, have no effect. It seems to me a similar attitude to what I find in those who, when a magistrate dies, express declarations of solidarity, while in other cases, such as that of my colleague Judge Aielli who yesterday was the subject of a very serious attack, or as for Mr Di Matteo, there was no statement in this House. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Nothing is done when it comes to giving solidarity to those who are seriously attacked, including threats to life. I remember that an obituary was even published with the announcement of the death of Judge Aielli, although he is still alive and is conducting certain investigations. Let us realize, Senator Giarrusso, that the prescription is one of the characteristics of the liberal state, it is one of the guarantees of the citizen. What is lacking is responsibility, the judicial organization: the judge and anyone with organizational responsibilities should be able to guarantee the celebration of the trials, in this I agree with you, Senator Giarrusso. The celebration of the processes is also done following a chronological order, taking into account the prescription terms, while many times, to follow the fashion of carrying out only certain processes, it is ensured that others go into prescription. This is a question of organizational science and the judicial organisation must respond to certain fundamental principles. The measure in question should have ensured that citizens, faced with sloppiness, negligence or a malpractice of the judge, could be satisfied with the State. That is why Forza Italia will vote no to this law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u83	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, this draft law cannot be regarded as a mere act of implementing European obligations. Instead, it is an important political achievement in the context of a more general reform that wants to make our justice system more effective after years of discussion. The bill in fact meets two different but congruent requirements. First, it is intended to follow up on the judgment of 24 November 2011 in which the European Court of Justice sentenced Italy for violating its obligations to adapt the national law to the general principle of responsibility of the Member States of the European Union, in the event of a breach of Union law by one of its courts of last instance. Secondly, it responds to the need to complete a path of defining the civil responsibility of the magistrates, which began in 1987 with that referendum, in a context characterized by sociopolitical tension linked to a profound and irreversible metamorphosis of the relationship between citizens, state and institutions. The approach adopted by Law No 117 of 1988 interpreted then the positive outcome of the referendum in the sense of defining the responsibility of the magistrates as an indirect responsibility with the right of reval of the State. With regard to the subjective element, in analogy to the discipline of other categories of civil servants, according to the principle contained in single text No 3 of 1957, it was limited to only cases of malice and gross negligence. Law No 117 of 1988 added a further limit for the magistrates: that of the interpretation of rules of law and the assessment of the fact and the evidence characterising, from the substantive point of view, such special discipline. The debate which characterized the work of the Commission on justice, as well as the reflections which accompanied the political path of these years in the matter of civil liability of judges, have seen contrasts on the one hand with the constitutional forecast referred to in Article 28, which places as a general principle the direct responsibility of civil servants, and on the other hand with Article 3 for the alleged discriminatory difference of the special discipline of magistrates compared to other officials and employees of the State. On the other hand, as stated in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1989 in which the legitimacy of Law No 117 of 1988 was declared, reflection must necessarily lead to a summary of the various constitutional values to be contested in order to preserve the peculiarity of the function of the exercise of jurisdiction, so that the magistrate is subject only to the law with a super partisan position, independent, not conditioning in the self-assessment of facts and evidence and in the formulation of the final judgment. It became clear, therefore, in the examination phase, that the provision introduced by the Chamber of Deputies by Article 30 of the European law amending Law No 117 of 1988 exceeded the operative part of the same European sentence of 2011, establishing a direct civil liability of the magistrates for the purpose of compensation of property damage. In this regard, it should be recalled that the case-law of the Court of Justice, which is relevant to the definition of the legislation in question, and in particular the Kobler judgment of 2003 and the Ferretti del Mediterraneo Spa judgment of 2006, which states that the liability referred to was the responsibility of the Member State, and not of the individual magistrate, for infringement of Community law by a court of the last instance for conferring rights on individuals in cases of serious and manifest infringement in relation to the degree of clarity and precision of the infringed rule, the intentional nature of the infringement, or the position adopted by a Community institution or for failure to comply with the obligation to refer a preliminary ruling, pursuant to Article 267 of the Treaty of the European Union. In any case, the infringement is manifest when you ignore the case law of the Court of Justice itself in that matter. Therefore, in the proposal under consideration, the indirect liability of magistrates, either for malice or gross negligence, or for serious violation of the law with the exclusion of liability in the assessment of the fact and evidence, except for misrepresentation. It remains, however, to be defined... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u84	Colleagues, have the surgery carried out calmly. I invite you to take your place in view of the fact that we will soon be voting and to avoid the huts.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u85	Please continue, Senator Ginetti. GINETTI (PD). However, the relationship with the disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates remains to be defined. What other mandatory provisions of liability in the law remain the denial of justice, referred to in Article 3 of the aforementioned law Vassalli, on which the Pinto law of 2001, and the forecast of the direct liability of the magistrates, sanctioned by Article 13 of the aforementioned law n. 117 of 1988, in the case of damages deriving from facts constituting offences committed in the performance of their duties. The action for damages is amended by the text approved by the removal of the procedure for the filter of eligibility of the application and clarifies the mandatory nature of the action that the State must promote against the magistrate for the recovery of compensation, increasing the time needed to propose the application for a three-year refund, as well as the quantity of the same to half a year's salary. In conclusion, it should be stressed that the regulatory framework that we are perfectly aligning Italy with the legal systems of other European countries, sound the infringement referred to in the condemnation of the Court of Justice of November 2011 and allows us to regain a further slice of credibility in Europe and in the international context compared to a system of justice that must be recognized, indispensablely, as protection of rights, but whose efficiency and independence are also factors of competitiveness. It was important, however, to overcome the perception that the independence of the judiciary, an institution therefore endowed with its own body of self-government, as well as the lack of application of the Vassalli law in these twenty years were equivalent to a sort of immunity, in a context in which anti-state sentiments risk undermining that relationship of conscious confidence that must bind the citizen and the institutions against the risk of social disintegration and against the threat to a complete civil and collective responsibility. In declaring the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour, the debate on the timeliness of justice and the jam of pending proceedings remains open, however, in a broader reformist spirit. The debate also remains open on the timing of the limitation of crimes and on the capacity for efficient organisation of the judge's office - delayed justice, which has been the subject of numerous calls from the European Courts, of which the country has begun to take charge in implementation of the principle of fair trial - and of a service, that of justice, which is the foundation and guarantee of a democracy based on the protection of the weakest parties, of an equal law for all and of the legitimate power of a judge who remains independent, above the parties and able to render effective and inviolable judicial protection. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u86	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the representation of teachers and students of the School of Political Sciences (Cesare Alfieri) of the University of Florence, which is following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u87	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u90	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u91	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1070, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 228 Senators voting 227 Majority 114 Favorables 150 Contrars 51 Absent 26]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 315 and 374.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u92	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for next week's work. Starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 25 November, the draft law on the Di Vagno research prize and the special tax system Italy-Taiwan, ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Committee and the draft law on the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation will be examined. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] There is no need for applause on the schedule of the works, Senator. During the afternoon session on Wednesday 26 November, the resignation presented by Senator Tocci will be put to the vote. The timetable also provides for the discussion of motions on child and adolescence policies, the international treatment of the PKK and the spread of electronic payment systems. On Thursday afternoon, 27 November, the question time will take place with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I would remind you that from Sunday 30 November to Tuesday 2 December the Senate House will be engaged for the plenary session of the Conference of specialised parliamentary bodies for the affairs of the European Union (COSAC).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u93	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting yesterday with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of October, November and December 2014: - Drawing of law n. 1569 - Establishment of the "Biennial Research Award Giuseppe Di Vagno" and provisions for the strengthening of the library and historical archive of the Di Vagno Foundation, for the preservation of the memory of the socialist deputy assassinated on 25 September 1921 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1327 and related - Rules bearing special tax regime in relation to relations with the territory of Taiwan - Drawing of law n. 922 - Amendments to the penal code and to law n. 91 of 1 April 1999, in the matter of trafficking of organs intended for transplantation
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u94	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 27 November 2014: [[Thursday 20 November ant. h. 9,30 - Following bill n. 1070 and related - Civil liability magistrates Thursday 20 November pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 25 November pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1569 - Research Prize Di Vagno (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1327 and related - Special tax system Italy-Taiwan - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Vote on the resignation submitted by Senator Tocci (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Wednesday 26, pm.) - Drawing of Law No 922 - Trafficking of organs intended for transplantation - Motion No 328, Mattesini, on policies for childhood and adolescence - Motion No 333, De Cristofaro, on the international treatment of the PKK - Motion No 299, Berger, on the diffusion of electronic payment systems Wednesday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 November pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance]] Amendments to bill No 1569 (Di Vagno research prize) and to bill No 1327 and related (Special Tax Regulation Italy-Taiwan) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 20 November. Amendments to draft law No 922 (Translation of organs for transplantation) will have to be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Monday 24 November. From Sunday 30 November to Tuesday 2 December, the Senate will be engaged in the plenary session of the Conference of specialised parliamentary bodies for the affairs of the European Union (COSAC).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u95	Mr President, I would like to ask for a reply to Question No 3-01418, which has been tabled quite recently, but which deals with the same subject as a similar questioning (the 2-00179). It refers to the fact that Italy, at the UN Human Rights Council on 25 June of this year, voted against a resolution called "Protection of the Family" (the text of which is widely contained in the question) and should not touch any sensitivity. The resolution, in fact, confines itself to affirming principles that everyone recognizes in words, namely that the family is an irreplaceable and very important nucleus of society, that the States that adhere to the United Nations must support it with laws and economic measures ranging from tax to active support, that the family is the ideal nucleus to welcome children, for their education and for their growth. Well, against this document the Italian Government wanted Italy to vote against. It would be interesting to know the reasons for this because the fact is important, although carefully hidden from all the great information, and should at least be explained. I therefore ask the Government to report on why it voted no to the resolution on the protection of the family at the United Nations. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u98	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday and today we discussed the responsibilities of the magistrates and in this speech, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement and in particular the activists of Latina, I wish to express my utmost solidarity with a magistrate in my city. Yesterday five handcrafted posters appeared, announcing the death and funeral, scheduled for November 28, of Judge Lucia Aielli, posted in the vicinity of the high school attended by the daughters of the magistrate. Judge Aielli, who has already been the target of threats and intimidation in the past, has distinguished herself in very important trials, which have described the high crime rate situation of our province - Damascus 2 and Charon on all - and have aimed a lighthouse on the mafia infiltrations in our territory and on the nomadic clans who have always been protagonists of the criminal history of Latina, often in the total silence or tacit acceptance of our municipal administration. The message, even if it is the work of loose dogs, as some say, clearly follows the mafia logics that the M5S repels and fights. The 5 Star Movement requires that the government urgently engage with the local authorities, listen to the problems and needs of a territory that for too long has been painted as a happy island by a condescending policy, when not compromised, and ensure to face a burning situation, before it becomes explosive. We reaffirm the disgust and punishment for the cowardly hand protagonist of this shameful intimidation, as well as our solidarity - and, I am sure, that of the entire Assembly of the Senate - to Judge Aielli, even in the knowledge that this alone is not enough and that, in order to defeat this type of crime, it is necessary first of all to defeat the omerty, even that in the institutions. Judge Aielli, we are proud of citizens like you and we will not leave you alone! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u101	MINEO (PD). Mr President, as you know, the speeches at the end of the sitting have become a sort of refugium sinterum. I would have liked to intervene this morning, when we were talking about the Eternit, because I wanted to tell all the senators - but I do now - that this story must have lived it. You must have seen in the face once a worker of the Eternit, who advances by bicycle towards you, who must record an interview; a former worker, because he has been disqualified, as Pope Francis would say, because he is sick of asbestos, who tells you: I breathe asbestos dust every day, many times a day, in the factory, but also at home, because they are also in the clothes lying down. You should have seen a city like Casale Monferrato, which with dignity faced the dead and the death sentence, which is worse than death itself, because when you hear that the wife, son or parent are suffering from pleural mesothelioma you know that it is a death sentence. You should have seen the faces of those people - at least three thousand - who died like this, to comment on a sentence like this morning, and above all you should be aware of what was the battle to do that trial. I was a journalist at RAI in Turin and at some point, on the second floor of the building, I saw myself surrounded by eleven people. They were men of the loving societies, who I don't know how they managed to get the RAI footsteps, who told me: The mesothelioma of pleura you invented it, if it was invented by his friend Benedetto Terracini, epidemiologist of tumors, because you die of lung cancer because you smoke, you do not die of asbestos. Instead we die of asbestos, in Casale Monferrato we still die today, of asbestos. I say this because it seemed quick to reduce everything, as it did yesterday through tweets some authoritative senator, to a matter of excessive length of the process. True, the trials are too long, but while we try to make them shorter, what do we do against a national shame called a prescription? The senators who enchanted us yesterday and today with their speeches should know that the prescription terms were shortened precisely because white collars, like this billionaire Swiss manager, were never condemned. That's the point. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]] To say that the sentence is wrong is a half truth. Prosecutor Guariniello will open a new trial, this time for murder, because it has been proved, in the two judgments of first and second degree, that the Eternit leadership group had certain responsibilities and therefore is attributable to murder. However, we as parliamentarians have a duty, which is to change that statute of limitations. I will present a bill consisting of a single article, borrowing the proposal made by the prosecutor Roberto Scarpinato, also threatened by the Mafia, because this theme also concerns the Mafia of Trapani and Reggio Calabria. This article provides that, after a judgment of first instance, the time limits for limitation shall be stopped. This is enough not to send unpunished those responsible for environmental disaster to Casale Monferrato. This is enough to hit even the corrupt, who are mafias, even if they are not part of the organization what we or 'ndrangheta, that flank the mafia of Reggio Calabria and Trapani. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u104	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, the transgender day of remembrance has been celebrated for 15 years now on 20 November, i.e. the day in memory of the transgender victims of murder. In 1998, in Boston, Rita Hester, a transsexual known for her civil rights battles, was murdered in her apartment with an unprecedented ferocity and violence driven by a rampant transphobia. The attack of this hate crime was precisely the fact that Rita was a transgender, as if being transsexual was a fault, and therefore deserved the uncivilized punishment: death. In Italy there are hundreds of people like Rita, who struggle every day in the troubled ring of life with the Castrante thought of finding themselves attacked, raped, beaten or even killed by people who still struggle to align themselves with the civil concept of democracy and respect. We fill our mouths, all with words respect, equality and emancipation, and then find ourselves catapulted into the sad reality of a country, Italy, where the anti-discrimination law does not provide for the aggression for hate crimes based on transphobia and homophobia. Yet it lies, forgotten as a wreck at the bottom of the sea, the bill no. 1052 which aims to extend the application to crimes motivated by homophobia and transphobia. We are talking about a text to be revised to a large extent, but that is the basis from which to start to build a healthy law worthy of a civil country. Europe, your much-bold Europe, palliative to all the economic and social ills of our Peninsula, has repeatedly launched the input to address civil rights issues as quickly as possible. The Lunacek report, approved in the European Parliament, can be a good reading for the Renzi Government and the cross-cutting majority that supports it. Just to get a 360-degree idea of what Europe is that you listen to every step of the way. Your Europe is that of the banks, ours is that of the rights. On 28 October 2014, Amnesty International, at the Joint Conference of the Italian Presidency of the European Union and the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, called on the Member States of the European Union to act urgently to prevent and punish homophobic and transphobic crimes. The 5 Star Movement asks with a loud voice, and not from today. Civil rights are not for sale, they do not have a price and much less they can compromise. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u107	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, like all of us, I was very impressed and dazed by yesterday's judgment on Eternit. Parliament will deal with this in various forums, in the Health Commission, in the Environment Commission and in the Justice Commission, in all respects. I think that in order to honour worthyly the memory of those who have disappeared and to try to prevent other deaths, because the danger exists, it would be very important for the presidency of the Senate to be a leader so that in Italy we would know exactly what happened in other countries. Eternit is a multinational. He didn't sell only in Italy, he sold all over the world. Do we at least know with certainty how many deaths have occurred in other countries, what the consequences have been and what judgments have been made against similar acts that have occurred in other countries? At least let us confine ourselves to those of Western Europe. [[Applause from Senators Razzi and Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u110	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, a government plan for hydrogeological rehabilitation is anticipated in the newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" on 18 November. In this journalistic anticipation it is said that the Government has given priority (it speaks of a total amount of about 690 million as the first impact) to the cities of Genoa, Milan, Florence, Rome, Turin, Bologna and Cagliari. Beyond the fact that it should be peaceful that the hydrogeological reorganization of the territory is the priority, given also the climate change and the consequences that are resulting from it, I note that between the target cities of the interventions are not comprised two cities that are incredibly at risk. I think of Messina and Reggio Calabria, a city that, from scientific studies, turns out to be in the most dangerous conditions, immediately after Genoa, for mud avalanches due to the rain. The Sicilian territory, and specifically the Messinese one, is constantly slipping as a result of landslides due to the continuous rains and the type of territory. I would therefore like to invite the Government to consider, given that during this period it is studying what action to take, the inclusion of these two cities, which are - I repeat - at risk as well as Genoa, in the plan for the reorganization. I would also like the government to come and describe in this House the type of approach adopted, namely what are the criteria that follow in its choices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u113	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too wanted to speak this morning, but you rightly said that a Senator could speak for a group and, therefore, for the most part, the Leaders, so I am doing it now. I would like to address the same subject as this morning and the statements made in this House. Senator Zanda's statement seemed very peculiar to me, and I say so with all the respect I have for him and for the PD and all the other Members of Parliament. We are all trying to make our contribution, as far as we can, and to draw the attention of this House to the problems that afflict the territory. I have heard, however, Senator Zanda make some reflection on the magistrates of the Supreme Court, to which someone replied saying that the problem is not of the magistrate of the Supreme Court, but of the law itself that should be revised. Other reflections should be made for all those who are on the territory and are at risk daily, and many are without knowing it. Yesterday's judgment, which overturned everything, raised doubts - after the first and second sentences - confusion and for someone even a certain bitterness. I also express bitterness for what has happened, but I would also like to pay attention to what is not seen or - in the right terms - everything that we officially do not see, but exists, and that someone even knows and pretends not to know. The problem of asbestos is not only what has been mentioned today by several colleagues, but it concerns many citizens who have it on their heads, inside their homes, they come into contact indirectly in schools, in the bed cars of the state's railways, in hospitals, through what are commonly called fire doors. We know that asbestos is present, but we pretend that we do not know, or many times - and this is more serious - we try to support or justify a behavior that should be completely different. Why do I speak at the end of the session? I know very well that I can do very little, but I am a Member of Parliament and, as a Member of Parliament means speaking, I also try to say mine in this House. I know that it will not be worth much what I am about to say, because many people listen as merchants in this Parliament. We grieve at particular times but then, when we have to take positions, we don't. At the end of my reflection I turn to those who think they know everything, who often give lessons in life and behaviour in this Parliament and lift their fingers to indicate the wrongs of others. I want to remind them that some laws have been supported and approved by them with their consent, and many times, when they have been denounced really horrendous and scavenging situations, they have pretended not to understand. Let us then reflect and behave correctly and as Christians, as far as I am concerned. It is not a problem of law, but of culture, because everyone within this House brings not the culture he has acquired on the school benches, but the culture he has acquired during and during his life. To conclude, let's make an overall reflection, but let's see what we have to do immediately to eliminate all the material that could become at risk. As a doctor, in fact, I want to say that a breathed asbestos particle may not cause problems today, but ten years later it could develop a tumor disease called lung cancer and, when a patient is suffering from lung cancer, he ends his life in a horrible and terrible way, which is also difficult to describe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u116	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out a very simple issue which I believe needs particular attention from the Government. I have had the opportunity to talk to some of the employees who are in the process of dismissal or in any case in difficulty due to the situation of the AST of Terni and others of Meridiana. Under these circumstances everything changes in life, but above all there are weights that become greater. I am thinking, for example, of a family that has turned on a simple loan of 30,000 euros, for example: in the face of sudden, but certainly unpredicted, change in the economic situation, the bank does not place any qualms, until it comes to demand the foreclosure of the goods. I would therefore like to make a recommendation to the Government. When negotiating at a conciliation table, at a table with companies or other social partners, it must be borne in mind that there are situations which are not anticipated in the life of a family which must be compensated and guaranteed. The banking institutions do not look at these aspects, they simply think of the payment of the instalment and the end of the month in which, if it is not honoured, even by a debtor who has always honoured his debt but who goes into crisis, they do not scrupulously. On the other hand, we are convinced that there must be an action on the part of the Government, if necessary, also using the instruments of the decree of urgency, to enable those who find themselves in debt of the credit institutions to be able to pay, even by reviewing and modulated in a different way the deadlines. We're not talking about people who don't want to honor their debt, we're talking about people who have changed everything in a few months or a few years. These are also attentions that need to be placed in a bargaining table. Mobility cannot be a good thing; it must be borne in mind that an entire family is damaged. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u119	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I should like to remind you of the workers of the Fincantieri di Monfalcone, former Italcantieri, who died as a result of asbestos. There are 81 people still waiting for justice; the former director and executives have been convicted of manslaughter, but we still await the deposit of the sentence. About 200 people have already died, but the Association exposed asbestos and the health company expect, given the exposure that lasted for decades, that in five to ten years there will be further deaths. I therefore address a thought to these realities and a praise to all the associations that have been born and continue to uphold the principles of justice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-356.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.53 a.m.
