ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 8 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u4	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u10	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as you know, during my speech this morning, when I spoke about Mr Kyenge and the former Turkish Minister, I read a statement by Giovanni Sartori and I also used the term 'negritude'. Then I read with amazement a press release by Senator Finocchiaro in which it was said that the president of the Lega Nord Group of the Senate Massimo Bitonci has violated his speech in the Chamber, in the matter of testing, racist and sexist insults against Minister Kyenge and the former Turkish minister. I address myself directly to Senator Finocchiaro, emphasizing the fact that I have read a statement by Giovanni Sartori (if you like, I can read it again, but I absolutely don't think the case) and I have not offended anyone at all. I have made a statement on a measure which - to my mind, and not only - is shameful. I think Senator Finocchiaro should apologize, because I didn't attack anyone at all; moreover, I invite her (at this moment she's talking to her cell phone: perhaps she's not interested in this statement because she's only interested in making press releases to attack the Lega Nord Group) to read on Wikipedia what is "Négritude," which was a literary, cultural and political movement developed in the 20th century. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Therefore, I invite Senator Finocchiaro to learn to read and study, instead of offending the North League, which leads a political battle on a shameful measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u13	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, the accurate and somewhat captious reconstruction of Senator Bitonci - the term "captious" is not offensive, Senator Bitonci - overlooks the fact that obviously it is not the use of the word "negritude" (which is a term commonly used by the lexicon and therefore can be read by each of us in one sense or another) that I have disengaged (to always use the words of Senator Bitonci) my reaction; rather, it is the fact that, in the course of his statements, he has repeatedly accused of dementia of the action of Minister Kyenge and his Councilwoman Livia Turco, repeatedly accused of absolute ignorance of the minister Kyenge and his Councilwoman Livia Turco and several times linked to this ignorance a judgment of complete ineptitude to carry out the functions exercised on that matter. I think that the political battle of the Northern League is legitimate (although I do not share it in any way), but that all this cannot go through insult. I repeat that this is not just about the term used, on which Senator Bitonci has cleverly articulated his disdainful defense, but about the whole of his statements, which I frankly consider absolutely inappropriate to an institutional role and profile. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u14	Having taken note of these clarifications, let us proceed with the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 925, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Ferranti and others, Costa, 110, 111, 113 and 666.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u16	Mr President, I am going to talk about a specific point of the measure. It, as a whole, finds the support of the Forza Italia Group, which has also contributed to the elaboration of some of its parts. Unfortunately, however, changes have been introduced in the Senate Commission, including the repeal of the crime of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the State. Contrary to what is sometimes told or made to believe in our country, there is no sovereign state in the world (and the sovereign states are many) that allows citizens of other countries to enter freely in their territory: everyone sets limits - some extremely strict, others more bland - especially for the issue of immigration, which is obviously different from tourism, visit or short stay for various reasons. Those who are against the crime of illegal immigration, entry and illegal residence in the territory of the State, to use the technical terms, should explain how to react to the violation of the rules that Italy considers to be in the field of immigration, because it is clear that if there is no adequate sanction, the rules no longer apply. If they think that Italy should be a country in which anyone can enter, stay as much as they like, therefore do activities at least in a state of total tax evasion and then stop as much as they want and maybe even take Italian citizenship quickly, this should explain it to the voters. Since all or almost everyone says that rules must be applied, they must explain how rules can be applied if there is no sanction. It is true that there are other types of procedure, but the problem, in order to send out from our national territory those who have entered us illegally, is that it is necessary to have the conditions to retain these people and then to proceed to their identification. Because they often do not declare from which country they come, or do not declare their own generalities, or declare them false, they need tools. Of course, there are various instruments, not only the instrument of the crime, but the crime is a tool that certainly helps this work, which is in any case very difficult. We know that only a very small minority of those who enter and stay irregularly in our country are identified as such and then, among them, many get away for various reasons, starting from the fact that, in the absence of adequate tools, when they are stopped and they are told that they should leave Italy, they say nothing, take their sheet of the way but do not leave; and when they are stopped the next time maybe they give a name different from the first. We are told that only in Italy is the crime of illegal immigration, when it is not absolutely true: in Denmark those who commit the crime of irregular stay risk a sentence to six months of imprisonment; in Austria, in addition to financial penalties, there can be a detention, even if short, after which the return takes place; Finland and the Netherlands provide for immediate expulsion; in Portugal illegal immigrants risk up to two years in prison; in Greece there is a risk from three months to one year for irregular entry and residence; in Ireland there can be imprisonment up to three years. Moreover, all the countries I have mentioned have a much less problematic geographical position than the Italian one. Italy has thousands of kilometers of coastline, and several hundred of them are exposed, at the distance of a few hundred kilometers (sometimes a few tens), to Africa, a continent from which comes most of the flow of illegal immigration. The situation in the Netherlands, Finland and Ireland is quite different, and they face seas far from shores other than European Union Member States. Interesting is the case of Luxembourg, which is entirely surrounded by the territory of the European Union (France, Germany and Belgium), and yet those who enter it clandestinely risk up to six months in prison. And these are laws that are being applied. I happened to be in Belgium with the Italian Parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe Assembly and to go and see the very important safety measures taken: devices that scan the entire content of articulated cars and boats, to check if there are people on board who are not declared. They are countries in which the illegal entries found are, according to their own statements, a few dozens a year. Someone will escape, but these are the numbers. The situation in Italy is quite different, and someone, unfortunately also having a majority in the vote of the competent Commission in the Senate, thought that Italy should open the doors and let anyone who wants it in. And those who enter illegally must be told that this is not good, and perhaps impose a fine on them. These people, usually actually, but sometimes simply by declaration, have no means of paying the fine, so it is not paid; they should leave, but they do not leave, they do not do even one day in prison, and in the meantime they lose track of it, and they can continue to be illegally in our country. With regard to the problem of the continuous and massive influx of illegal immigration, the only factor of reduction is due either to policies put in place by the Berlusconi Government, in the years in which it was in office or, lately, to a not positive fact, that is to say to the economic crisis. This induces those who intend to emigrate underground to countries with better economic conditions than their own to choose less Italy and to enter our country and then go to other European countries. To think that Italy itself must be the weakest country, the softest belly of Europe, is truly a demencial approach that does not take into account the reality, the opinion of the citizens, those who go to vote and not of the 25,000 who participate in one is respectable confidential consultation via the Internet, and show that they are irresponsible towards our country. Our country, if it is not able to implement an effective policy of barrier to illegal immigration, risks - as has already happened in the past - being penalised, directly or indirectly, by other European countries precisely because it is not effective enough. Let us remember that France, for example, suspended the Schengen Treaty with Italy at a time when it felt that we had not implemented a sufficiently rigid and effective policy on illegal immigration. I therefore ask the rapporteur and the Government to take action to remove this point of the measure, which is quite rightly so. Italian citizens are interested in their security and the fact that we enter our country following the rules, as in all countries of the world, including those from which much immigration comes. Try to go to Morocco without having adequate titles that allow you to enter it: it is impossible, because in Morocco, as in many other countries from which immigrants come, they have a sense of the dignity of their own country that we would like to maintain also to ours. I say this to those who are going - I fear - to vote on the measure as it is: they have a responsibility to the country, and not only to those who give them the orders of how to vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u17	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the North League, as my group colleagues have already said this morning, is absolutely opposed to this measure and will put in place all the initiatives that will be allowed to block it. Once again, that transversal majority, now extended to the 5 Star Movement, which has voted since 2006 measures that have as their sole result to make our cities, our countries, our roads more insecure. In the name of the politically correct and the strange culture that wants that if someone wrongs and commits crimes the blame is of society, go and adopt a measure that is tense, but only in your intentions, to prevent the increase of the prison population. Basically, from tomorrow, who will commit a crime that is punishable by a prison sentence of up to six years at the discretion of the judge will be able to serve that period at his home. But your unjust solution will be paid by honest citizens, who will see thieves and snatchers moving freely from tomorrow, because it is evident that it is an illusion that you can keep the condemned at home. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] Today we know - the representatives of the Forces of the Order denounce it every day - that the staff of the Police and the Carabinieri will not be enough to guarantee your found vouchers. Therefore, take away resources, means and patrols from what is the fundamental, unique and exclusive function of the Forces of Order, that is to guarantee the security of the citizens. The overcrowding of prisons is certainly a problem that we also believe must be resolved, because if the function of detention - as our Constitution establishes - is rehabilitation, well under the current conditions in which prisons are placed can hardly be satisfied. But yours is not the solution, because Abel always pays the bill. The solution must go through the realization of modern structures able to guarantee the recovery of the prisoner, must go through the rapidization of the biblical times of the processes today; the solution must go above all through bilateral agreements with the countries of origin, so that foreigners pay the penalty in the jails of their home, because it is evident that the situation in the Italian prisons is burdened by the presence of foreigners who represent about 40 percent of the entire prison population. There are some northern prisons where the percentage rises to 60% or even 80%. If in Campania out of 8,300 prisoners only 1,000 are foreigners, in Lombardy out of 9,400 well 4,200 are foreigners and in Valle d'Aosta there are even 204 out of 284. A quick calculation would lead us to have a prison population of 42,000 inmates instead of 65,000, sending foreigners back to their home to serve the sentence. These solutions, which we are repeating, meet with the benefit of the citizens and guarantee the certainty of the penalty to protect the security of our communities. At a time when we are all being asked for severity and against crime, first and foremost the citizens who are victims of these crimes, the measure under consideration, on the other hand, represents an absolute unconditional surrender of the State. This measure, then, even more attacks the general and preventive function that should exercise the penalty. What kind of deterrent can have such a rule among those who want to commit crimes, including personal injury, beatings, housebreaking, private violence, child pornography and persecuting acts? In fact, we are talking about crimes of serious social alarm that directly affect the weakest and poorest sections of the citizens: theft at home; theft with violence or dexterity committed on public transport, to the point of reaching the acts of terrorism with deadly or explosive devices; fraud in public supplies; false testimony and false expertise; incitement to criminals; forest fire for guilt and other crimes still that I am not here to list. It is not possible for those who commit these crimes, or even those who intend to carry them out, to know that they are at the maximum risk of returning safely to their home. Nor is it possible to think that we can guarantee the safety of citizens with electronic bracelets or by completely downloading the problem, in fact, on the Forces of Order, which, as I have already said, are not able to adequately monitor the number of prisoners who will serve the sentence to the housekeepers. There is also a record that the type of crime that could be included in the measure under consideration, such as those whose penalty the lestophant serves at home, are those of which there has been an increase. We have been informed by the newspapers in recent days, taking into account the budget of the Ministry of the Interior for crime in 2012. The "Il Sole 24 ORE" in an article entitled eloquently "Ray: the black year of thefts and muggings": it spoke of more than five crimes per minute, 320 per hour, almost 7,700 per day for all 365 days of the year, including Easter, Christmas and New Year. Seen from a close perspective the balance of crime in Italy in 2012 confirms the current perception of insecurity, fueled also by recent episodes of black news, so much to have the owner of the Viminale, Angelino Alfano, announce a plan for the safety of the cities. It is a fact, however, that the numbers provided by the Ministry of the Interior on the crimes committed and denounced by the Forces of the Order record a general increase. Given that there is a question to be asked, in the light of what the newspapers report, if Minister Angelino Alfano and Minister Annamaria Cancellieri are part of the same Government, it is evident that from the conflicting actions that the Executive carries on it seems to be in the grip of schizophrenia. Or you have to wonder if we are witnessing the skilful balance of those who, in order not to displease anyone, that is to say no part of this strange majority, give a blow to the circle and one to the barrel. But to be disappointed by your wondrous choices you will find honest and angry citizens, who see their security sacrificed on the altar of political correctness. For the League, which has in its ranks many local administrators always in contact with the many Marie skies, unlike you, the theme of security is a key theme. Honest people will always find us on their side. On the contrary, you must be ashamed and bear the moral responsibility for making our streets and cities more insecure. You have the moral responsibility for the acts that will be carried out by the lestophants that you have not put in prison. You have a moral responsibility to attack the security of the community that you should protect. You with this provision kick the honest people. You with this provision save delinquents offended and mortified the millions of men and women who ask for solutions that you are not able to give. It is also a measure that, with a raid whose authors are the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, also contains the cancellation of the crime of illegality. I want to make a comment on the flash referendum launched yesterday on the Net by Grillo, demonstrating once again that he is the father-master of the Movement, to know how many sympathizers grills agreed to abolish the crime of clandestineness. A survey not irrelevant, but significant, because the result, according to the rules of the pentastellated party, had to give rise to the position to be held by the Senators of the Group. Well, we denounce him! On such a delicate subject you can't joke and you can't improvise. AIROLA (M5S). And not even demagogy! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). What you have done is a strange exercise of direct democracy. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] If what is implemented represents the deep sense of the 5 Star Movement, we are fresh. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] As a North League we wonder, and if they ask more and more Italians who are learning to know you and, among them, certainly also many who have voted in the past, if it is ethically correct to launch without notice a referendum reserved for your 80,000 members enrolled for a period of time of only seven hours. Basically, whoever's good, the others are on their way. It's a crazy thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] [[Senator Airola's protests]] Fortunately, there are some critical voices from within your Group. Some say the blog ran like this... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You say it! I was saying, there are those who say that the blog managed so becomes a weapon in the hands of someone who has convinced himself that he can manage more than 150 parliamentarians with strategy of corporate organization. That's what some of you say. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Others argue that the survey is yet another mockery or yet another demonstration of total inability and amateuristic approach to such an important issue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of the Senators Simeoni and Montevecchi]] For example, Orellana says so. But, ladies and gentlemen, the die is now drawn. The official position of the 5 Star Movement resulting from the online referendum of the pentastellated galaxy will be, or should be, for the cancellation of the crime of illegal immigration. Out of 25,000 voters, nearly 16,000 have spoken for the cancellation of the crime, while 9,000 have responded for its maintenance, i.e. 36%, which is not such an insignificant percentage. Well, you of the Five Star Movement have thrown the mask. With the funny referendum, with a champion who - let me tell you - is not representative of the Italians and, I am sure, even of those who voted for you, in February you will cancel with the center-left the crime of illegal immigration. From now on, black and white, those on the citizens' side, the Northern League, are finally exposed. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] , and those who are on the side of criminals and illegals [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , certainly, along with the PD, also the 5 Star Movement. And the North League... [[Comments of Senators Airola, Lucidi and Simeoni, who stand up. Protests of Senator Bisinella]] And the North League... (Senator Montevecchi asks to intervene). Bisinella (LN-Aut). President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Arrigoni, continue the surgery. Then there are the other surgeries to replicate. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). And the North League will remain the only bulwark against the invasion. Gentlemen, with the continuing economic crisis in general and the labour market in particular, more than 500,000 foreign citizens present in our country are looking for employment, while it is to be emphasized that the inactive foreign population has reached 1.250,000 because of family reunification, the increase in the number of second generation foreigners and the unplanned entry quotas of foreign population. In this context, while recognizing the distinct problem of refugees, proposals inspired by Minister Kyenge such as the elimination of the crime of illegal immigration and even Bossi-Fini, or the recognition of Italian citizenship through the ius soli, all instead of putting in action supporting actions in the Third World countries, represent messages of false reception, which risk being received by desperate people all over the world as an appeal of the type: Come to Italy, we welcome you all with open arms! [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] It is not superfluous to stress that migration policies of openness without border control, of persons who are also looking for work, increase social hardship and create tensions in the market that favour an extension of irregular work, leading above all to a condition of relative disadvantage for the same regularly resident non-EU workers, but unemployed and seeking new work. In making mistakes of this kind, this measure will devastate the lives of the Italian and foreign unemployed: the first victims of these policies are in fact long-staying immigrants and those with families. Who speaks today of flows and continues to ask generic flows in the name of immigrants tells a joke: all foreign communities consolidated in Italy are against flows! Unfortunately there are a lot of people in Italy who speak on behalf of foreigners but do not know them, because in other European countries those who are opposed to the flows are historical foreigners, who are the ones who risk the most, not because they are against their fellow citizens. Today, in the given conditions, Italy cannot afford to program entry flows; let alone not control migration anymore! You know who says that? Not only the League, but also the Directorate-General for Immigration and Integration Policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It is also the same regular foreigners who claim this, as denounced in these hours on the Net by Elliee, a regular foreigner, who strongly contests the 5 Star Movement for its "yes" to the abolition of the crime of clandestineness. His single post, which I now read, is worth more than a thousand words: Perfect. So, as a foreigner legally resident in Italy, I say this. The M5S wants to eliminate the crime of illegality? Do you want to help those who, at the moment, enter Italy like a criminal? Do those who voted and support the M5S agree with the party? Yes? Then kick your balls out and publish your name, address and telephone number, so we know where to send the illegals, because I, as a foreigner legally resident in Italy, broke my balls to pay and keep the nothing and do nothing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senator Simeoni]] Dear Pentastellated colleagues, who started at the beginning of the parliamentary term trying to overturn the system, to open it like a can of tuna; instead you will end up consolidating that system, amplifying its defects and, indeed, adding others. On the cancellation of the crime of clandestineness from today will begin to precipitate your decline! Look, I don't share anything with the Grillo-Casaleggio couple, but I quote an October statement from your boss - who has been denied today - in the aftermath of the amendment to the Justice Commission: If the M5S had appeared in the elections with the aim of erasing the crime of clandestineness it would have collected percentages from zero comma...Montevecchi (M5S). But it's out of the question! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). (...) and you, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, instead of being here in 50 you might have counted on the fingers of two hands! Dear Lords of the Government and the majority - who are cross-cutting in this provision - continue to worry only about prisoners, therefore criminals and irregular immigrants who do not care about the rules. Continue to engage also on other issues, such as civil unions, which are not priorities for the real country consisting of families and businesses, which will indeed see worse insecurity and social state. The League is convinced that the emergency is instead to return work, dignity, and above all hope, to Italians and above all to young people, who today score percentages of unemployment that break the threshold of 42 percent. The League is convinced that the emergency is to facilitate, in fact and not in words, the deburocratization and to reduce the tax burden for companies, which are also a source of well-being for the State. That is why we completely reject this scandalous measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senators Bottici and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u21	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your colleague has spoken off the subject for at least ten minutes. The colleague used his speech to talk about the 5 Star Movement, which is a completely off-the-shelf topic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The senator spoke on the subject of the bill. Then, with regard to some fall in style and language, it is not you who must decide whether it is on the subject. The theme is: read today's newspapers, everyone talks about it. Montevecchi (M5S). Excuse me, Mr. President, but I'm asking you something. I am making you look at one thing: the colleague has spoken out of the question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He didn't talk off the subject. What do you have to say, Senator Montevecchi? You are intervening on the order of business; you do not have the task of being a censor and deciding whether or not colleagues speak on the subject. Montevecchi (M5S). The 5 Star Movement and the survey are not themes of the provision. I therefore urge you to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u24	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I was quoted by my colleague with reference to the way in which the 5 Star Movement makes its own decisions. I agree with my colleague here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana, there are registered colleagues who will be able to say things... MONTEVECCHI (M5S). Let us talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Easy, Senator Montevecchi. Orellana (M5S). I do not believe that this House is interested in the way in which, perhaps for the first time in the world, a movement consulted its members. It is a way that I criticized, because I think it can be improved, but as a first experiment it is certainly to be evaluated in positive terms. However, it was not in the interests of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is what my colleagues decide. Orellana (M5S). We came first to table an amendment - I am referring to the amendment tabled by Mr Buccarella and Mr Cioffi - which is now part of the basic text. So, we just confirmed with our subscribers our choice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u25	Excuse me, Senator Orellana, the general discussion is for expressing ideas. Thank you for your speech. I now intend to give the floor to Senator Divine who is enrolled in speaking in the general discussion. I believe that other colleagues can join if they wish to make their views known, as you have said, Senator Orellana and Senator Arrigoni have expressed their views. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so. I remember that the theme is the bill on depenalization.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u26	Mr President, do you know that we also enjoy these intermezions and speeches that a little depress the situation? But it is astonishing to hear this complaint and this reaction from the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (who made the protest and the breaking of the rules a reason for life), who move criticism of the League, because for the first time, talking about issues (we talk about immigration, prison, etc.) maybe they get a little overwhelmed and the 5 Star Movement is accused. The complaint, in a nutshell, sounds as much like the story of when the ox gives the ass cuckold. So let's put aside these considerations and play this game. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I have another point to make, Mr President. Although the subject at our examination is the prison one, here it seems that they are intertwined and enveloping the subjects of imprisonment, immigration and even integration. Mr Bitonci had to make an intervention, specifying what he had said and the words used this morning, not at all offensive, because it seems - vice versa - that there is an offensive on the part of the Democratic Party towards all the actions that are taking place at this moment by the League. The League has a newspaper, called "La Padania", which systematically publishes the interventions of its representatives (i.e. the section "Qui Lega territorio"). Because for us consciousness is realized with knowledge, everything that does information and allows citizens to know something more is good. We believe that listening to Mr Kyenge is important. I remember, for example, that the left, until the 1970s, when it was not yet in the government, used to say to its militants: "We want terms of comparison, read the Corriere and do the exact opposite." For them that was a comparison term. To our militants we say: "Go listen to Kyenge and then draw your conclusions." I wonder why some MPs in the PD - I do not mention the names, otherwise we start the fight - say that publishing information is an intimidating act. But for who? You are not saying anything: it is said, for example, that this lady, on 16 January, will speak at the Levi-Montalcini Foundation for the Education of African Women. It's legitimate. We did not know that Minister Kyenge also had powers in the field of education, but it is perfectly legitimate, and so we say: If you want, go and listen to this Minister. It seems, however, that some MPs in the PD do not like the publication of this news. ( [[Senator Santini's comments.]] GATTI (PD). Do you publish the agenda of all ministers? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Let's say the problem is a bit internal: are you ashamed of what your minister Kyenge says? I don't know, but you're free to do it. We, on the other hand, are ashamed of the fact that Minister Kyenge is paid with the money of Italian citizens, but he is only concerned with foreigners. That's why we're ashamed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Ius soli, abolition of the crime of illegal immigration, abolition of the Bossi law - Finishes and I save you everything else. We consider it astonishing, at this historic moment, to talk about serving prison sentences at home. What pains? Those up to six years old. We've read a lot of statistics: prison up, prison down, different areas. The numbers are these: a share between 60 and 70 percent of the prison population is made up of immigrants. Do immigrants have a higher crime rate than Italians? No, I don't think so. However, they live in different conditions, which lead to these people where it is actually over. Why did they go to prison, beyond the illusion, the attraction, to make people understand what in Italy really isn't there? These people, for the most part, do not even have a home; and then how can we talk about penalties to be served at home? That only means opening prisons. Some good soul will certainly give their availability, offer their own guarantee and make available their home but this means only opening the doors of the prisons! The second finding is the testing, ergo suspension even of the trial, which is not even done, for crimes with penalties up to four years. Here, too, we are going to pierce quickly what crimes would come back into the test, for which, as a result, we would not even do the trial: aggravated theft, fence, aggravated fight, violence to the public officer and even stalking. A few months ago, the Senate Assembly unanimously approved and ratified the Istanbul Convention. I can make a mistake, but I think there is no senator who has not intervened and everyone has rightly spoken of the need to preserve women against abuse and harassment. Today, probably, the same women of the PD will vote for the measure under consideration and the same will be done by the ladies of the 5 Star Movement. What do we tell those ladies we guaranteed a few months ago that we would use the hard fist, that we would maintain the intransigence to crimes against women? Shall we tell them we were joking? You tell him these things! I have reread some reminiscences of past legal studies. I don't think that in all the faculties of jurisprudence we teach the economic theory of the delinquent: he was a vice of some professor of criminology. The final synthesis was that almost never is the severity of the penalty to make the choice between criminals or not criminals. What are the variables that the criminal actually puts on the plate and that are the basis of his decisions? The first is the possibility of being discovered. If 97% of the thefts are not reported or, however, the culprit is not found, even if the penalty was very serious, practically the risk would be null and void. The second point that the criminal puts on the balance is the ability to get to the sure test in the investigation. This is about judicial police investigations; the less efficient the investigations, the less you will get to the guilt, ergo also in that case the shirts widen and in jail you never end. The third thing that the criminal puts on the plate of the scales are the length of the trial, that is the inability of the magistrates to arrive in normal times to a sentence of condemnation: translated into words the prescriptions; the longer the trial is, the less likely will be a condemnation and the prisons will not open for the entry. That being so, that the real gravity of the sentence is ultimately considered, if at the end of this process we even establish that for these crimes the maximum risk is thirty days of public service work, we try to reason on what is the deterrent that the State puts in place to prevent the commission of all these crimes, which reach up to four years of punishment and which essentially end without trial, with the suspension of the trial and the testing. We are truly shocked by the simplicity and ease with which these measures are taken (and we immediately understand where they lead us). A banal analysis: the present moment sees economic stagnation, difficulties at all levels, unemployment - as has been mentioned several times - at exaggerated levels; there is no alarming work and growth is not seen. The government has committed itself to the issues of recovery and employment, but the first measure that brings us - even with a certain emphasis - is that to empty prisons? Is that the first problem for the government? For colleagues of the 5 Star Movement the first problem is to eliminate the crime of illegal immigration? We respect your work, the fact that you consult with a base (which we do not know well), but put the problem: normally the questionnaires and surveys always answer the interested parties. Have you asked yourself that question? If there has been from your base, through blog consultations, networks, etc., this type of response we make an analysis: normal people disinterest themselves from participating, while the only interested ones to participate are probably those touched by the measure. Does it take so much to understand that if you approve of this measure, you are actually going against the vastly silent majority? It makes more noise a tree that falls rather than a forest that grows, but one forgets it very often. To abolish the crime of illegality means to open borders: open doors. Ask yourself a question: who arrives in Italy at this moment what comes to do? We said there's no work for the Italians. One thing every man and woman can't transition to is to combine lunch with dinner. Here we are accused of the fact that it did not work, or did not work well, the current control system, which provides for the crime of illegality. But when the crime of clandestineness was thought of, it was thought in a context of a system in which all the bodies of this country were moving in that direction. The prefects had been given the opportunity to sign and execute them. Who has held back the implementation of this measure? If it had been implemented and if, when a person arrived, they had been sent home, and so had happened the next day, this would not have gone unnoticed. The message would have been received and these people, desperate poor people, would no longer have left for voyages of hope, if they had known that the next day they would be repatriated. I'm not saying it would have been educational, but it would have been logical, and it would have avoided so much misfortune and so many deaths in this country. But we are not a system. The magistrates have decided that that law is not good, and I would say that it does not apply so that it is not the prefects who sign the decrees and the judiciary that assume this function and this competence. We also know how the judiciary feels about this and, as a result, we proceed to a greater degree of judgment, and it is mostly called into question that the provisions providing for this crime, voted on by the two branches of the Italian Parliament, are legitimate. The magistrates decide what to do in this country! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Who is a few years older than fifty will remember a film from the seventies, whose title is "Suppose they declare war and no one goes there": nice title, right? It means that if no one obeys anyone anymore, the system implodes. This Italian system of ours, which proceeds by parallel lines or by watertight compartments, no longer makes a system, so it is useless to make good laws if then those who have to apply them are completely disinterested because it has completely different political and ideological positions from the legislator. I must commend a colleague and friend, the former Minister for Justice Castelli, for all that he has set in motion and I must take up a little bit of who replaced him, Minister Alfano, because in 2010 he came to this House with a lot of emphasis, which we also shared, to announce that work had already started on the construction of 19 prison pavilions. The problem of prison overpopulation, in fact, is not a problem of today but is, indeed, a cyclical problem. But those 19 pavilions - President Letta and the Minister of Justice here - are chimeras and are not seen - what happened to them? They're real, aren't they? Someone tells me that some prison has been carried out, but that it is completely empty or, even, abandoned and already in a state of ruin. Are we kidding the Italians? We take the money of the Italians and then we say that we do not use these prisons and that the delinquents who should have ended up there find them again in the street and that they have to get over it? Let us return to the current climate, which reflects the dramatic moment: perhaps 1929 saw situations similar to those we see now, due to unemployment, growth or stagnation of the economy. In this climate we are talking about: emptying prisons, homosexual marriages, adoptions related to homosexual couples, liberalisation of drugs. What are we talking about? I know a comedian who, at this point, would say: are you connected? But are you in tune with the country? Do you understand the problems that come from businesses, citizens, artisans, pensioners, those who do not work? But are these the problems that ask you to solve? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Honestly, not who is in charge of the work, but the ordinary citizen, wonders: but in Rome, in the classrooms and in the Palaces, does anyone have the helm of the situation? Objectively, it is difficult to say: Yes, there's Letta, there's the other one. We don't even know if there's a helmsman here! This is where you drift, it's completely drifting. Saving Rome is one of the last slips, and who failed it? The biggest sponsor of this Government, President Napolitano, according to which you can not do nonsense or such filth. One fact has passed by: the 150 euros given to the school sector; one moment, that money was given, then removed, then frozen and now I read that they are virtually taken away in paychecks. With all honesty I don't know what it's like to say "virtually taken away in paychecks." Does that mean data or taken away? The secretary of the Renzi Democratic Party intervenes in a robotic way, saying that you cannot play and that you do not stand on the sidelines. Aren't we gonna be on the jokes separately? We make another observation, remembering the save Italy, the spending review and so on: all public employees were asked to block all types of increase, career and salary, because compensated at least by the certainty of the job, which in private does not exist. But I ask: why should the blockage of the entire public sector apply to everyone, but not to school? We also agree that it is not fair to treat teachers, who perhaps should be recognised, valued and paid to a greater extent, than their very important and decisive role in the training of young people. We are, however, in the public sector guaranteed in the workplace and we do not understand why a general rule is being taken away at this point. The answer is: perhaps the school sector is the electoral basin of the Renzian PD. It's the only solution. But, excuse me, colleagues, this is not - as Renzi says - an episode of the program "Skierzi a parte": this is the typical Italian comedy. But nobody here ever talks about the victims of the crimes under investigation. What do we tell them? Get over it? Has the state decided to treat honest criminals better? Yeah, you can say that. But the League comes out of this choir, rather puts its finger in the plague. You go and justify these filthy things. Now I am giving you a banality, which is my duty, a completely personal proposal. I had at the time to say: if we really want to reward some inmates who have already served a good part of the sentence, he has kept a good behavior and wants to contribute to the community, why doesn't a small facilitation be given to him? The reference is to Brazil: the prison of Santa Rita do Sapucai bought bicycles that produce electricity and asked the prisoners in these situations, who have already served half the sentence and behave well, to be able to pedal to make energy for the prison, for that municipality, giving practically a transformation of the sentence into kilowatts. At least the company has a minimum of return and gratification. I shall conclude, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have half a minute. DIVINE (LN-Aut). The article by Angelo Panebianco... PRESIDENT. It is too large the sheet of the article you intend to read. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I don't read it all. It is well known that Angelo Panebianco is not an extremist, a racist or a xenophobic, but he deals with the problem of hospitality in a very reasonable way until he speaks three words: It is possible that it may even favour immigration from the Christian Orthodox world at the expense of (...), and taking into account the gap in birth rates, that of the Islamic world. At least this should be a legitimate topic for discussion, because the second phase of immigration is integration. We've been saying this for a lifetime and we have two feelings: a little satisfaction and a little anger. We feel satisfaction because we see that our appeals are received very late and we feel anger for all the time we have lost. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u27	I greet the students and teachers of the State Middle School of Ginosa, in the province of Taranto, to whom I welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u28	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the reason for all this disbelief of the Lega Nord Group towards the 5 Star Movement and not only, given the amendment that we are talking about (which, in fact, is not so, because it is included in the measure that we are going to vote on this evening or tomorrow). Well, the reason for all this disbelief lies in the fact that the crime of clandestineness was the greatest failure of the North League after the realization of federalism in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] In fact, since it was introduced, migratory flows in our country have constantly increased. In 2010, 460 million euros were spent because of the Bossi-Fini law in Italy; for 2012 there is even 700 million euros. A clandestine remains in the identification centers on average five months and costs the company 7,000 euros due to the Bossi-Fini law. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Bitonci's comments.]] One! In 2010, 150,000 irregulars were identified, of which nearly 90 percent received the via sheet. This, however, is a joke: in fact, irregular people should get away alone from our country, but they do not. This is the success of the crime of hiding: the promise to leave our country. It's a joke, a joke of the Italians! Nicola Tanzi, general secretary of the SAP (and not of the 5 Star Movement), that is, of the major police union, said: It is necessary to have the courage to say it clear and round: this law on clandestineness - in reference to the so-called Bossi-Fini law - unnecessarily aggravated the work of the police forces and - even worse - undermines the control of the territory and the security of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is exactly the opposite of what my colleagues in the North League have said. The North League is such an evolved movement that, by the voice of its President Calderoli, Minister Kyenge appears to be a "orango" (orango). Well, colleagues in the North League, after all your racist and xenophobic accusations this morning, we have finally figured out what part of this House the apes really sit in! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Live comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u30	Senator Cappelletti, I invite you like the other colleagues to use a proper language. It must be remembered that your Group has previously contested the fact that there were other parliamentary groups and no one has called the Members of this House in the previous speeches. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u31	That does not seem to me to be as correct as you have said. (The Senators of the M5S and LN-Aut Groups exchange lively jokes. Senator Volpi stands up and moves in the direction of Senator Cappelletti, but is blocked by parliamentary assistants).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u32	Senator Volpi, please return to your place immediately. Mr Cappelletti is speaking, and I have already made some remarks to him. Senator Cappelletti, continue your speech. Senator Volpi, go back to your place. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Get him out! Bisinella (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biinella, Senator Cappelletti is still speaking. Senator Cappelletti, continue your speech. Mr Capelletti (M5S). I'm just waiting to get on with it. [[Several Senators of the M5S and LN-Aut Groups stand up.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Throw them out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite all senators to stay in their seats. Senator Cappelletti, take up your speech; otherwise, if you do not want to continue, I will give the floor to another colleague who is in general discussion. I repeat, everyone must return to their place. Senator Cappelletti, you will continue; so, speaking, will contribute - I hope - to restoring a normal course of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u33	The draft law submitted for consideration by the Assembly contains provisions of delegation to the Government concerning non-convict prison sentences and reform of the entire sanctioning system. SANTANGELO (M5S). Ma'am, look at them! Throw them out! Mr Capelletti (M5S). These are provisions relating to the suspension of the procedure by putting to the test and provisions in respect of the irretrievable. SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at them, ma'am, throw them out!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u34	Senator Bitonci, please cooperate in the good performance of your work. I have already pointed out what has been said. I would also like to address Senator Parent Santangelo: the Leaders work together to ensure that the work is carried out properly. (Senators Airola and Bitonci are incited.) Senator Bitonci, we are holding the general debate, so there is no other debate in this House at the same time. I would ask you, as the Parent Company, as well as Senator Santangelo, to contribute to the normal course of the sitting. Go ahead, Senator Cappelletti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u35	Mr President, I hope that I will be able to make up for this time which has been taken from me by the sense of democracy of my colleagues in the North League. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] As part of the reform of the sanctioning system, it is useful to recall that over 300 new offences have been introduced into our system in the last 15 years. [[Several senators stand.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u36	I would ask the senators to follow the debate as usual. Anyone who is not interested may leave the Chamber. I therefore invite you to sit down and I ask Senator Cappelletti to continue with his speech. Senator Biinella, Senator Cappelletti is now speaking: you are also sitting in your place. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] Senator Volpi, you have the experience of this House, please make use of it by contributing to an orderly development of the work. Please, Senator Cappelletti.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u37	I hope it's a good time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u38	It's up to you, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u39	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Politics in the last 15 years has therefore gone towards an increase in the complexity of the criminal justice system, despite the fact that the opposite is, of course, claimed. We therefore welcome the fact that we have to deal with a measure concerning depenalization. Too bad, however, that decriminalization, as provided for in this bill, concerns a very small number of crimes, which are also found to be very poorly applied. However, if the objective was to solve the problem of overcrowding in prisons, this is certainly not the right way to go. For example, to provide for the decriminalisation of crimes such as that referred to in Article 527 of the penal code, that is obscene acts, in a Parliament that has just dismissed the law on feminicide, does not seem to go in the direction of a legal system designed and intended to protect the weakest categories, nor in the direction of emptying any Italian prison. It is recalled that administrative sanctions are not included in the criminal record and do not affect the enjoyment of political rights either. Moreover, in the absence of a framework which provides for the retroactive application of administrative sanctions for criminal offences, the jurisprudence of the Criminal Court excludes that the facts committed may be sanctioned. It will not be possible to sanction them either in criminal proceedings or as an administrative offence, as Article 1 of Law No 689 of 1981 states that no one may be subject to administrative sanctions except under a law which entered into force before the commission of the infringement. According to the Cassation, the criminal court must therefore declare that the crime is no longer required by law as a crime. In other words, extinct. The decriminalization of crimes such as the forgery in private writing, the subtraction of common things and usurpation, for the obvious consequences on the level of relations between private subjects, cannot fail to raise doubts. Particular historical interest then arouses the decriminalization of Article 3 of the Legislative Decree no. 506, even of 1945, containing provisions about the denunciation of the goods that have been the subject of confisches under the Government of the Italian Social Republic. I cannot, with all my good will, understand the usefulness of the reference to this standard. Was it not easier to repeal it? Article 1 of the measure under consideration provides for the allocation of a legislative power delegated to the Government for the reform of the system of penalties. In particular, the rewriting of the framework of the penalties implies a modification of Articles 17 and 18 of the penal code, with the introduction of home imprisonment and house arrest. It is clearly appropriate, in view of the importance of the subject covered, to provide for elements of greater strengthening of the role of Parliament, and in particular of the Commissions, in the monitoring of the exercise of the delegation, thus establishing additional obligations for the Government in cases where it does not intend to follow up parliamentary opinions, for example by providing for the obligation to report or for a new parliamentary opinion. A further critical issue that I would like to point out is the forecast of measures such as home imprisonment and house arrest, which risk becoming ineffective if they do not identify suitable places to ensure the custody of the sentenced person who may be homeless. There is no indication that the court may prescribe particular methods of control, as well as that for which non-convict prison sentences do not apply if imprisonment or arrest at the home or other place of private residence are not suitable to avoid the danger that the sentenced person commits other crimes. Home imprisonment and arrest can be atoned for not continuous but for individual days of the week or for time slots. In this respect, an amendment to the 5 Star Movement has been drawn up, as such a provision would break down the application of the sentence and make it difficult to manage it. With regard to the work of public utility, in the delegation to the Government, in Article 1 (i), the term "also" is used. From the literal point of view it can be interpreted both in the sense of configuring the sanction of the work of public utility, as a measure which is added to the house imprisonment or to the house arrest, and in the sense that the judge can apply the sanction of the work of public utility as an alternative for the offences considered. On this point a rewording is desirable which avoids the risk of any uncertainty in the interpretation. The sanction of the work of public utility in our system is already provided for in certain hypotheses, but it poses enormous practical problems. This sanction is often inexplicable because for a real effectiveness of the same it is necessary agreements with public bodies (Regions, Municipalities, Provinces), willing to accept the condemned. In order to give practical effect to this case, it would be appropriate to establish first the obligation for public bodies to accept those convicted. Chapter II of the draft law lays down provisions on the suspension of the procedure for trial. This procedure is particularly cumbersome as it aggravates the court's work and slows down judicial activity. Such proceedings, i.e. to acquire information on the defendant's personal, family, social and economic living conditions and to bring them to the attention of the defendant's prosecutor and defender, should probably be entrusted to a body other than the judge. Finally, it should be noted that the draft law does not contain any provision regarding the relationship between the new non-convict prison sentences and the new institute for the suspension of the trial with trial, and the provisions of the penal code on the conditional suspension of the sentence. All this, with particular reference to depenalizations, we cannot fail to note that more could and should have been done. I think, for example, of the laws Fini-Giovanardi, Bossi-Fini and ex Cirielli, to understand us. Even the so-called public service sanction, which is welcome in itself, could be better structured by means of a mechanism for involving local authorities that is not there and is therefore in danger of undermining the effectiveness of this measure in the bud; a measure which, with the institution of testing and the part relating to the irretrievable, certainly goes in the direction of a necessary relief of justice, but is not sufficient. In conclusion, therefore, more could be done and better could be done, in view of the fact that there is a desperate need in our country to make the machine of justice work more and better. We therefore trust that all our amendments will be adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u41	Mr President, certainly the feelings that are generally overheated are not doing so at all on this occasion. It is obvious, however, that we are not talking about something that can resemble a name, as if it were the proof of a car, the testing, but we are witnessing a measure under whose bare lies lies lies the will to undo the country, to make it invade by uncontrolled masses and, even worse, to throw everything into chaos, to free from prisons those who reside there certainly not because they welcome guests, but because they have committed crimes for which they are in jail today. Well, with regard to all this we are witnessing a debate that seems almost academic, positioned on the fact that a crime is more or less important, that today the level of ethical attention to a problem is to be overcome instead by a regulatory change. No, ma'am, we're not in front of this. Are we obstructing today? Yes, convincedly, and we will continue to do so in every way, without truce and in every circumstance, because the country must wake up to these facts, it must know that those who have presented themselves as innovators are opening the doors yes to innovation, but hundreds of millions of invaders who will come and crush us under our feet, without having any respect for those who have hosted them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is what will happen, this is the opening of doors indiscriminately, this is the abolition of the crime of illegality, which - let us remember immediately - is not applied in our country. In fact, this is the country where regulations, once approved, are disenforced by the judicial body; this is the country where, despite the legislative parliament, then there is a judicial body that does not implement those regulations, because it considers itself superior to the sovereign people. This is what is causing the crime of illegal immigration to go bad: the obstruction that is done by a part of the state, of course by political line [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In the face of this, why not oppose it? It is a duty to oppose, President. Let us first see what the subject of the debate is: overcrowding in prisons. One wonders why prisons are overcrowded. Why is there a very efficient law enforcement system? Why is there certainly - and we are sure - a judicial authority that does not allow any crime to take place? None of this: prisons are crowded because the justice system doesn't work. Then, in a completely distorted way, we do not go to solve the problem, but we give a sponge, pretending that the problem does not exist, while addressing the problem means putting the citizens in a position to know that a judgment cannot wait tens of years to reach its conclusion, it means putting the citizens in a position to know that when a criminal is taken he is condemned in definitive form and in a short time. This is an honest country, this is a safe country, this is a country that respects honest citizens who pay taxes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Everything that's not happening in here today, everything we've become accustomed to seeing the government do. But people must open their eyes, they must know that it is a mystification to say that today in prison there are criminals who are not such: in prisons there are those who the Forces of Order, with great effort, have managed to assure justice. What is done here? The doors of the prisons are opened, people are released who we already know from past experience that within the first 12 months will recompense the crime in an even more ferocious way, because in the meantime the country is bitten by an economic crisis that makes all our families, our whole society weaker. But the government apparently doesn't care, and certainly, in this case, it also has the complacency of the innovators of the 5 Star Movement. President, there is a European condemnation measure, and what was the government's action? That of presenting us today with a reform of the prison system, a reform of the judicial system so as to ensure that there are those actually sentenced in jail in a short time, so as to ensure that there are no nineteenth-century cells but that there are institutions of punishment at European level? No, none of this, just another blow of sponge, pretending that the problem doesn't exist, opening the prisons, getting everyone out and also saying: we have to be tolerant, because, in the end, who doesn't miss once in a lifetime? These are people who at best raped someone. THE COURT (PD). What are you talking about? Bullshit, you're just bullshit! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). These are people who at best went to pick-up, went into the homes of families, put in trouble elderly people; these are the people you are putting back free. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] A normal country builds prisons up to the level, with levels of security that guarantee citizens, it does not open the doors of existing ones. Show the government what they can do, if not these disasters. The problem is the credibility of the government. We are with a majority presenting the will for a reshuffle and today we are facing a debate, which would require more attention, with a Chamber as always deserted and a cabinet of the same deserted government, with only one Undersecretary representing the Government. All right, that's the focus on a problem like what we're talking about. Who knows what the citizens or representatives of the Forces of the Order think, who in some cases have even lost their lives in order to be able to bring a criminal to justice or have been overwhelmed by criminals, such as the poor policeman of Milan, Nicolò Savaryno, who just two years ago was overwhelmed by a foreign citizen in his own car. And then what happened? Today we are with the same foreigner practically released. Is this the justice that the current Government offers to the country? Let's go ask the victims what they think, because perbenism hurts the health of democracy, and I have no problem saying that I'm with Abel and not Cain. Cain must be in jail! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Just the other day, Savarino's brother had harsh words about this country and the government: "Justice is not acting as it should. After two sentences I have to say that then it would have been better not to have taken him, because justice is slowly putting him back out without even a year in jail. And this is happening today, but after that it will be even easier. Shame on you! This cannot happen in a civilized country. Other than telling us that we must be credible in order to attract foreign investment in Italy and to restart the economy. Is this the credibility of a country? Open the jails and let the criminals out? The hell you're gonna get investments from abroad! This is the credibility of the government. The real problem is that you have to mask all these negligences, because you do not have the political capacity to solve them, because you are engaged in a reshuffle of government. But be careful, because people have noticed the inadequacy of your ministers. President Letta will have to be careful when he removes his pearls from the necklace, because he will find himself in the hand a thread and all the pearls on the ground, the white ones and the black ones, all equally inadequate to the needs of a civil country, that should give answers in terms of security to honest citizens who pay taxes, that should be able to guarantee the prison guards adequate resources in order to carry out their duty. But you know well - and if you do not know or do not notice - that you have just approved a budget in which you have decided not to pay the prison guards even the extraordinary days that are forced to do because they are under staff. That's the other shame you're hiding! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But those who work know that, and those who work in security to guarantee citizens are increasingly demotivated. It's this demotivation that's taking the whole country to ruin. But the government is not credible not only for these aspects, but also for political legitimacy. We no longer understand what his majority wants to do: there are those who agree on the abolition of the crime of clandestineness; there are those who do not agree; there are those who want to temperate him; there are those who do not want to temperate him. In reality, you are agreeing to uncontrolled opening of the country's borders by lowering security to the minimum levels. That is what you must have the courage to tell people by taking responsibility for it. All our citizens expect is that they still have a thief in their homes, according to you. But we are sure that our citizens expect to have more security, we are sure that our citizens expect to have clear answers that do not come from the government. Then, if you are unable to give these answers, go home, because you are inadequate to the role you have taken by election vote. Although it seems that the electoral vote is only pleasing and convenient when it is of interest, because when the citizens of Piedmont are democratically expressed, the vote is cancelled with a political decision [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , when there is a government standing with a parliament, that you of the 5 Star Movement should well know that it is illegitimate by Constitution, as you have always said, everything is fine. What are you doing here, voting on this measure? Be the first to leave the Chamber. Get away from these scrawls, if they are not comfortable and velvety, to which you have gladly got used. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]] And I say to you of the center-right: what do you plan to do by voting on this measure? Do you think you are consistent with Minister Alfano's policies? Do you think you are consistent with those who declare themselves on the side of the police forces and then open the doors of the prisons by parading in front of the policemen, the policemen and the other forces of the order those who have been put in jail with so much effort? Is that the credibility you think you're showing? Is this the coherence with the political action of your highest representative? Think about it. Do not make the mistake of voting on this measure, because we will tell your voters, we will tell all citizens. We'll tell you about this filth that you're doing with your other allies in the Democratic Party. In fact, do it, do it without any problems, but think about it when you sleep at night, because there will be someone who will still be robbed by the same thief who was put in jail and whom you have freed. Once the thieves made their own way to prison: they took the file or saw, knotted the sheets. Today everything is easier: the government is directly thinking about opening their doors to them. It's so much easier. Simply a law provision is enough, which you almost want to silence. Let's face it: without the North League to denounce these facts there is no one on the side of honest citizens. This is the unconfessed truth! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we are opposed to these crazy ideas of yours, and we are not simply doing so on a political side, but because we are convinced that those who are proposing it are totally delegitimized. The Government is delegitimized, starting from its members, who at most represent only themselves. Unfortunately, I still have to mention that blessed, or goddamned, case of our marathons in India, those who are subjected to a judicial system that does not give them up. What is the consistency of the Government? To open prisons in Italy, to show how weak it is to those who commit abuse against honest citizens and to leave instead those who have served Italy in the jails of an unjust country, in the jails of a country that, for commercial matters, is using these people as blackmail against the Government itself and Italy. [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] Shame on you, even to wake up now, at the last moment, with European motions and more. Where is Minister Bonino? Instead of going to make useless interventions with useless representations from other countries go to India to prove that the country is credible and, if it has the courage, make her exchange with our maròs: let them return home and stand there to represent the Italian Government and credibility. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Here in the Senate in the Maccari room there is a painting with a motto: "Pacta sunt servanda." They respect them, starting with the government. They respect them, starting with Minister Bonino. This is the credibility that you must show, not that of a canary minister who would only like free drugs. This is the shame of the country! What do you want? Putting the gag on the North League? You're already doing it in every way, you're doing it in the media. But we don't quit. We are among the people: we will tell our people and even those who do not vote for us. We will also tell those who vote for you what you are doing. We will say this by confessing all the names and surnames and political parties that support this measure, because if it is true that there is no mandate bond, it is also true that there is a political responsibility. And you're hiring her by opening this country's jails. You're taking responsibility for liberating criminals. You of the 5 Star Movement are taking responsibility for putting on the Net a survey in which the convicts and rapists participated! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] A survey that will simply allow this country to be invaded. When a law doesn't work, another one is proposed. If the crime of illegal immigration does not work, propose another, but you cannot open borders indiscriminately. You can't tell anyone to come to this country and make it land of conquest, because this means to be yielding, it means to have no identity anymore, it means not even having one's own land and one's own country to defend. This is you, perhaps, stateless people, people who do not even recognize their own land. We care about this one, and we will defend it to the last breath. Mr President, you are giving a wrong message to the citizens, a message of insecurity. You're telling them they're abandoned to themselves. We will try in every way to let him know. We will do so with the great strength that has always represented the North League, a popular movement that does not subject itself to the lobbying of money, as you do when you have to support the gambling lobby. We don't do that. We're honest and we don't have the problem of saying it in front of people. We do not vote for these measures, because we have never supported them! Instead, you change your flag from time to time, trying to get popular consent even of those in jail today, because you no longer have other forces to hang on to! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Well, Mr President, I too will recall Professor Angelo Panebianco's excellent article, which is certainly on the same footing as Professor Sartori and cannot be registered among the voters of the North League. A few days ago Professor Panebianco, speaking about these issues, reminded us of the following: The request of Matteo Renzi to include the reform of the Bossi-Fini among the themes of the government contract, beyond the motivations of the new secretary of the PD, could be an opportunity - serious, I add - to be seized to give more rational bases to our immigration policy. Do we just have to confine ourselves to buffering and containing migratory flows or do we need more active and, above all, more selective interventions? A question that becomes possible if you leave behind the ambiguities and hypocrisies that have so far dominated the camp. Professor Panebianco continues: The ambiguity depends on the fact that we seem unable, because of certain ideological superstructures, to decide once and for all what criterion to hang immigration policy: convenience or acceptance (the duty to welcome the less fortunate of us?). Too often the two criteria are mixed, immigration is justified in the light of both. If not, these are contradictory criteria. This leads to the impossibility of making coherent proposals. The reasons for convenience are well known: we need to combat the ageing of the population, we need - at least if economic recovery, as we hope, will arrive sooner or later - additional labour force and new consumers. Here I disagree and add: first there are those who are unemployed in Italy, first there are the unemployed in the North, first there are those in the Centre and also those in the South. Enough of this perbenism so that in the end everyone else can come to this country to do what they want! Here those who do not work must find their jobs before those who come here to immigrate, regardless of whether they come for economic or political reasons! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The plans are confused - continues Professor Pianebianco - making it impossible to make rational choices. The appeal to welcome has a clear ideological origin, born from the confusion, proper to certain Catholics (but not all), and also of quite a few lay people, between the mission of the Church and the tasks of the States. It is the confusion between the Gospel message and politics, between the universalism of the Church, which speaks to all men, and the inevitable particularism of the State that responds to a defined set of taxpayers. The reception cannot be the guiding criterion of a serious state policy. Why is it confronted with the inevitable problem of "scarceness": how many are the ones we can welcome? What is the maximum ceiling? And I add: be responsible and aware. The country's social burden is already exhausted. They cannot all arrive indiscriminately in this country, all the more so if they come from countries that have democratic systems that do not correspond to ours, because they will approach our people, our people and our families with the arrogance and arrogance that has marked them in their country. And then you're opening up borders not to people who come here, as it was, a hundred years ago, for those who emigrated from Italy, but you're opening up to people who come here to rape people! [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] Mr Fornaro (PD). You can't say that! Let me explain to you, President, that they are also from wars! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Who comes here to blame the weakest people, who come here to commit the worst offenses! Because these are the people to whom you are opening up borders indiscriminately. Because honest people come to this country not in a clandestine way, but by declaring their will to work. They don't come to this country clandestinely, coming back several times. That's the shame you have to say. Then, if you do not have the courage to answer, you will answer one day in front of your children. We place these responsibilities entirely on your shoulders: we do it democratically, not in an undemocratic way as you do in the streets. For if ye had received the slaps that we had received, ye would have gone into the square already. What we did in Turin last Sunday, you would have done with the Molotov bombs: this is the truth! Because you're the anti-democrat who shakes this country! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). These are the problems of the country! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission, we, as the Forza Italia Group, have made a contribution to the process of this measure, and I thank President Palma for what he has done, together with all the other Members. It is clear that the measures are not perfect and can be changed. Unreasonably, someone in the Commission said that this measure went towards what is the so-called delinquent drift: a measure that allows criminals to leave prisons; a measure that allows robbers and rapists to use permits to go and commit crimes. Well, this provision goes in the opposite direction. I remember we've been asking for so-called decriminalisation of crimes for years. Many crimes are now obsolete; many crimes do not serve. In the courtrooms I live daily the problems of justice, even mistakes. That is all I reproach my colleagues in the League, regardless of illegal immigration, crime or crime. I think that, regardless of this measure, we must begin to discuss tomorrow what may be the so-called reform of justice: a reform of justice that Italian citizens have been waiting for years, because colleagues of the 5 Star Movement forget - they too - that there are so many citizens who have been waiting for a sentence for twenty years, both in criminal proceedings and in civil proceedings. Well, you've had a fight on the web about illegal immigration. Regardless of your freedom - I do not go into the merits of your Movement - you had the courage to say no to Grillo and Casaleggio, and you did well. I appreciate your freedom: you have done so in the Commission and have been recalled, in relation to the crime of illegal immigration. Grillo said: it's a passing fact, it's a moment. On the other hand, you have had the courage to say so in this House tonight and, I hope, to vote accordingly if you do not have a whisper. This measure is important: it gives people - I am talking about drug addicts, or those who are delinquent for crimes less than three and five years - the opportunity to take advantage of other penalties than prison detention. Today in Italy there is already the alternative to prison detention: there is so-called semi-freedom and there is so-called reliance on social services. This provision gives the possibility to those who have committed a crime also to carry out tasks in the world of work and in the social world. There is the possibility of having the detention at home at home or even in communities, with the consent of the same, thus continuing to carry it out in those communities or at their own home, for crimes that are clearly not serious. The Group to which I belong is that of Forza Italia: we have always been guaranteed towards everyone, unlike someone who, in the past and even today, said that Forza Italia, when proposing laws in the matter of justice, made the laws ad personam. Today this bill of delegation is not ad personam: it is a measure that goes towards many citizens, especially drug addicts. I would like to focus on what is the problem of the crime of illegal immigration. Many colleagues obviously do not pursue the profession of criminal lawyer as I do, living daily in the courtrooms the problem of immigration in a negative way, they should realize that there is also a positive immigration, which is the one that gives arms to the South: in the fields where so many young Italians do not want to work there are these arms that give the opportunity to many entrepreneurs to give a job. I would like to say something to my colleague in the League when he says: we must first give jobs to those in the North and then to those in the South. We in the South cannot be compared to something foreign to Italy: we belong to the same nation and pay the same taxes. A rebuke to the colleague of the League must be made: he cannot afford to say that the workers of the North come first and then those of the South. I won't let you do that. I do not allow it in this House, but the people of the South who continue to pay taxes do not allow it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Simeoni.]] To return to the crime of illegal immigration, I want to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement and to many other colleagues that we in this House can change or make some changes. I also ask the Government, undersecretary Ferri, who in the Commission gave a favourable opinion on the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration. I therefore appeal to find a solution that is shared between the 5 Star Movement and the other parliamentary groups, without making an armor on a crime that exists not only in Italy. The crime of illegal immigration exists in all the nations of Europe (in France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Switzerland or Denmark) even in a different way from the legislative point of view. I am of the opinion that this crime should not be abolished, but should be seriously tightened up in the penalty, in order to make justice work. If justice worked, the crime of illegal immigration would also work in courtrooms. Unfortunately, a few days ago, a Ukrainian boy my assistant, who was under house arrest, escaped and was found in London: after only 24 hours he was brought to Naples. This is how it happens when justice works and when the crime of illegal immigration works. (18.20) (Follows CARDIELLO). I therefore appeal to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement: in your opinion, regardless of the referendum you held, is it right to give the possibility of delinquere to those who enter Italy without a residence permit and who are part of the organized underworld (in Naples there are neighborhoods where the Neapolitans no longer command organized camorra, but the Chinese, North Africans, Romanians or Bulgarians)? [[Comments of Senator Vacciano]] That is the truth, my dear colleague. By eliminating the crime of illegal immigration, you will allow these people to hire the so-called boats, on which there is criminality and organised crime. Eliminating the crime of illegal immigration, you can't expect people to come to Italy for good, who ask: "Sorry, we can enter Italy, why do we want to work legally?" Instead, we will give the possibility to the thousands of prostitutes and North Africans who continue to sell drugs to strengthen themselves on the territory and to think that, since there is no longer a crime of illegal immigration in Italy, they can do what they want. Indeed, even now, despite the crime, they say that in Italy you can delinquere, because justice does not work and the law is not applied. Colleagues, I do not want to argue with you, as I said earlier, but you will be guilty of a felony of aiding those who will go up on the boats, pay and be killed at sea, just as it has already happened. The amendment tabled by the colleague of the 5 Star Movement was approved the day after the death of all those immigrants on the boat and, in my opinion, the approval was on an emotional matter. Today we have the opportunity to discuss and discuss with you, and also with our colleagues from SEL and the Democratic Party, who voted in favour of repealing the crime of illegal immigration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u43	I invite you to conclude, Senator Cardiello.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u44	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. I do not think that all this can be discussed within a fence, between those who say 'clandestinity' yes' and those who say 'clandestinity' no', between those who claim that immigration is a crime and those who claim that it is not. I think there should be a civil confrontation: we have two days to discuss it and discuss it. I appeal to Undersecretary Ferri, who might find a summary in this situation. I therefore think, Mr Undersecretary, that you can and should try to find a mediation with the parliamentary groups on this issue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u46	Mr President, today we learn, with the defence of our colleague, that the 5 Star Movement has entered the majority. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] It's official, so thank you. There's nothing worse than spitting on the plate where he ate until 1997. Senator Cappelletti, he tried to run for the League, but he couldn't, and now, like an acrobat, he passes to the 5 Star Movement, jumping like a cricket, but this time with the net. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Better apes consistent than acrobats "cadregaro"! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u47	Watch your language, Senator Centinario.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u48	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I didn't say any dirty words, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not a compliment, anyway. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). What? Cadregaro? Acrobat? You tell me. Madam President, when I was a child in school, I was taught the Ten Commandments, those God had Moses write on Mount Sinai: Don't kill. Do not commit unclean acts. Don't steal. Don't say perjury. Don't want someone else's woman. Don't want other people's stuff. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Madam President, I continue, if my fellow screamers let me speak: we will be the apes, but there are also the screaming monkeys. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Write it down, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Centinario continue his surgery, please. AIROLA (M5S). So maybe someone else tells us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, try not to provoke reactions from other colleagues. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). When I can move on, tell me, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Now our Mosè-Letta descends from Palazzo Vecchio where God-Renzi (we remembered that it was Fonzie, now became God!) The one and last commandment has written to him: do what you will, and you will be unpunished. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u49	Senator Bencini, please lower your voice. (Senator Bencini leaves the Chamber.) Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Goodbye. It is therefore decided to decriminalize the crimes. But let's start with the data. In 2012 5 crimes were committed per minute, 320 per hour, 7,700 per day: there are really many. A serious state should intervene to protect and safeguard its honest and defenceless citizens, who respect the rules of civil life. They respect them! A serious state would do this; not this state, which is anything but serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u50	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, what does this state do? No new prisons are built, because it is ugly (maybe it bothers the radical chic with the ermine), and the courts close. If you remember, there is a good argument about closing the courts, because they are expensive and, in the end, almost useless. The courts are closed and, in the meantime, prisons are emptied, because the poor magistrates do not have time to work. Moreover, they do not give instruments to the Forces of Order and humiliate them with this provision. Every day communications come from law enforcement that complain about this situation, because they don't have gasoline and almost don't have ammo. Lately, the Forces of Order have gone to a neighborhood in Padua and have risked beatings. Usually the opposite was the case, but that's okay. Above all, everything is done to make the certainty of punishment less effective. It is a Republic of bananas - let us remember what we said before - with fruit, which allows its citizens to do what they want without rules and which shows us, in the eyes of those who watch us from outside, as a weak state, where to go and do whatever you want. It is an invitation to honest foreigners not to enter. Let us think, for example, of those foreigners who want to come and do tourism in Italy. Tourists see us as an unsafe state, like the State of pickpocketing, at least in some parts of Italy. There are some tour operators - especially American tour operators - who advise their customers not to come to Italy. As soon as we remove the crime of theft, this will be free and everyone will be able to do what they want. This government which, in words, says it wants to encourage tourism, does nothing with the facts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What do you get at? That penalties up to five years are transformed into sanctions or house arrests. Let's go see for what crimes: forest fires are decriminalized. We have the problem of forest fires, especially in some regions, such as Liguria and those of South Italy. For South Italy, you have just voted for another funding for forestry, in areas where fires are on the agenda. What do we do? We hire new foresters to decriminalize the crime of fire. So, even in this case, you can do what you want. About the scam, theft, at this point, you will do what you want: you can steal what you want and where you want. The same will happen for child prostitution, private violence, pornography, stalking (and my colleagues have already mentioned it, better than me), the begging of minors, the concealment and fraud, the incitement to crime, false testimony and, finally, illegal immigration: all crimes that some consider minor, but that minors are not and that transform our cities and our countries (because unfortunately certain thefts happen not only in the big cities but also in countries and villages in areas from Far West. Madam President, the state has failed. On the one hand, there is a Parliament that legislates: and everything can be said to this Parliament except that it does not legislate. For the crimes described above Parliament has always legislated and the laws are there. There have been so many debates, votes, ideas and opinions against. There have also been almost unanimous votes, and hours and hours spent in the Commissions, perhaps wasting time. Why waste your time? Because if on the one hand, as I said, the state, and therefore the legislative power, legislates, on the other hand the magistrates decide whether to apply the laws or not. Because if the law is there, but is not applied, whose fault is it or, in some cases, who takes the credit? As in the case of those magistrates who, beating their hand on the chest, say they are proud not to apply the Bossi-Fini law. Bravo! And you're a magistrate and an employee of the state! That's a good guy! So, the legislative power in this case drops the pants in front of the judiciary. I therefore give advice to my colleagues in the 1st Commission, who are addressing the issue of constitutional reforms. We do the election by the English, Spanish, German, French, Chinese method: but we are wasting time. We abolish Parliament, because it is the judiciary that decides at the moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On several sides the experts of radical chic thought have risen invoking actions to defend the dignity of prisoners. It is true, in a civilized country, as we want to pretend that it is Italy, prisoners must have a dignity and must be able to live their detention period in the best way. It is equally true, however, that I have not heard any of these radical chic stand up and ask for the dignity of the victims, the dignity of the relatives of the victims. I am talking about the dignity of those people who may in some cases see their relatives killed and then find the killer on television doing the freaking phenomenon in some broadcasts and, very often, also in broadcasts of state television that, paid with our canon, allows to send in video nasty characters and makes them pass almost like phenomena! And they should be ashamed of that! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And you should be ashamed especially who, at this time, presides over the RAI Supervisory Commission, because there is a service contract that needs to be applied and that was to enter into force on 1 January 2013: today we are in January 2014 and nothing has yet been done! We're perplexed and worried. It is a government - and I put it in quotes, because otherwise they trigger the wrath of colleagues - "ignorant" in the sense that it ignores the rules of civil life; it incites irregulars to come to Italy; it protects those who commit crimes; it causes the children of friends to be released; it leaves our maròs in India. India is a serious state! Other than Italy! I remember that years ago someone said that the people of India are from the Third World: instead, we are from the ninth world compared to India! As I said, he leaves our maròs in India, a serious state, other than Italy; he protects the no-globals that devastate the cities: it is nobody's fault! People move around in a mask and you don't understand who they are and what they do: it's no one's fault but half the city is destroyed! It's a government that justifies the Kabobos. When Kabobo was taken, some representatives of the majority and some members of the government justified this gentleman. It's a government that boasts a minister of useless integration, and I'll explain why, because I don't make accusations without evidence. After ten months of government, in an interview, the Minister tells us that, to supplement, we need funds. Wake up! Wake up! Did you understand that after ten months, dear Minister, that, in order to make an integration policy, it takes money? The problem is, if you've figured it out after ten months, you're a useless minister, because you don't understand what you're doing there, dear Minister! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Contrary to my colleagues - unfortunately I have this flaw - I am not surprised by the amendment tabled by the members of the 5 Star Movement who, after having anticipated it months ago, now implement their project. Honestly, I am glad that my colleagues in the Five Five Movement are putting forward this proposal. Is that their idea? They're taking her forward. They will go in front of their voters and tell them that they have made this proposal, and so they will be able to decide whether or not to vote on it again. It's democracy. Nobody gets offended. No one's incriminating. Vote, do and undo. Do what you want, so you are the ones who open the tuna box: if you think that Parliament opens up by voting on this amendment, do so. You're big and vaccinated. You are over forty years old and therefore vobis, as the ancient Romans used to say. I'm almost done, and my president will be upset that I haven't over 20 minutes. Last night, at dinner, some friends, non-lighists, gave me the solution to what will happen after this vote. A friend told me: If from now on I find a thief in the house, what do I do, since the crime is decriminalized? VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. What are you talking about? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). "I do justice on my own!" [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, dear President, thanks to this majority we have officially entered the Third World. Thank you for letting us into the Third World. Before I finish, I would like to say goodbye to the listeners of Radio Padania Libera who are listening to us right now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] From tomorrow they will be our megaphones of what they have heard at this time, thanks to this majority. As usual, ladies and gentlemen, neither colleagues from the PD nor those from the majority are present in this House. As a result, we will remember that, during the parliamentary debate, as a rule, almost no one is present. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u51	Madam President, let's see for a moment if with calmness, using some instrument like the consecutio temporum that is taught us by the time of Roman law and logical analysis, we succeed (Exchange of jokes between Senator Airola and some Senators of the Group [[LN-Aut. Recalls of the President]] to give an answer beyond their respective typho-series. I was talking about logical analysis and, since we are in the Senate, we start from a premise: anyone who says that anyone who wants to come to Italy can say something impossible: they cannot reach 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 million people, as they would like to come. Similarly, it is nonsense to say that all those who come from outside Italy must be returned to their country, because Italy would die, without immigration, without caregivers, colfs, workers, and so on. Then the legislator must find a measure, set rules and enforce them. I would like to inform the senators, including the'scientists', that the problem has been dealt with by the then Interior Minister Napolitano, now Head of State, and by Mr Turco with the so-called Turkish-Napolitan law. The so-called Bossi-Fini law (possess or no pleasure) is exactly the continuation of that termed Turkish-Napolitan, because the principles are exactly the same. I would like to pay attention to my colleagues in the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group, because we need to find a solution to these problems. Therefore, both provisions provided that those who arrive in Italy in a regular way, with the residence permit, are welcome and we must do everything to integrate it; Those who come or station in Italy illegally must be returned administratively to their country, due to refusal if they appear at the border in Trieste or at that sea. I recall that this was the case with the Albanians, a Christian Democrat Minister of the Interior of the time, who sent them back to Albania a few thousand: they arrived by ship, were welcomed and then one morning they were taken back and rejected in Albania. This is the fundamental principle of the Turkish-Napolitan law, and it is inescapable. We cannot pass the principle that those who come illegally to Italy, once set foot in the country, cannot be driven away by anyone, because we would not stand up to a certain problem of xenophobia and racism that would grow more and more, since immigration is identified with crime, pickpocketing and other dramatic situations. I'm from the North, and I know what that means. In Modena (but I can also talk about Brescia, Milan or Genoa), in the economic crisis there are hundreds or perhaps thousands of people forced to live in gimmicks: pickpockets, drug dealing, robberies and robberies in apartments, day or night (as happened to me during the holidays). Clearly, there are social concerns and tensions. Then, in my opinion, the problem can be tackled by graduating. For this reason, I am opposed to the crime of clandestineness (and I appeal in particular to the Undersecretary Ferri, who has expressed a favourable opinion on the repeal of this crime). In the Bossi-Fini law there was no crime of hiding. I talked to Bossi about it with whom I deepened the problem. For the carer whose residence permit expired, for the student who continued to stay in Italy with the expired permit, for the tourist who stayed in our country or for those who entered illegally there was no crime, but these people were taken and expelled administratively. If the carer was at the market without permission, she would be expelled. It is clear, then, that if that, a second time, returned to Italy and therefore went against an order of our administrative authority, it was said to her: Sorry, I've already expelled her, she hasn't left or returned. At this point, there's a felony. I don't put her in jail, but I condemn her. If then, my dear or my dear, comes back a third time and is relapsed, a serious order also gives her a prison sentence. What happened in practice with this fine? I turn to the friends of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group (I also told Maroni in 2008). We have instituted 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 or 40,000 trials, because for every person found irregular a trial starts which ends after three or four years with a fine. I would like to ask the friends of the Lega Nord Group and Autonomies how many trials, of the 15,000 launched by the Agrigento Public Prosecutor against immigrants arrived by ships, have been defined and how many have paid a fine. In the meantime, these people, as there was an ongoing trial, remained in Italy. Then I would like to ask those who, like me, are strict or are of the opinion that illegal immigration should be contained because an immigrant who could first be sent away immediately by administrative means now to send him away first has to make a trial that lasts years, and then apply a fine that is not actually applied to anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Wait. You can talk to policemen, carabinieri, financiers, magistrates or prefects, anyone who knows about public order, and he will tell you that this is not in heaven or on earth. It is an ideological manifesto, but, excuse me, I am not interested in ideological manifestos: I am interested in the result. Then why do I speak against this rule? Because we cannot, on such a sensitive matter, say that Parliament now repeals the crime (among other things with a very bad written rule, because written in this way we do not understand if only the crime that was introduced in 2008 in our legal system is repealed, or if it also overwhelms the crimes related to recidivism or if it intervenes on a legislative decree even in 1998, which was a legislative decree of the central-left government). That is, we cannot, in front of the world, in front of Europe, in front of Africa, in front of those who exploit illegal immigration, say that Italy, with an amendment to a law, has eliminated the crime! If we want to reason (I turn to the Government, the majority and also the opposition), the Government makes here, or after a later reflection, an organic proposal on how to graduate the problem of illegal immigration. I tell you how I want to graduate it: first, I expel them, reject them, which does not mean doing an inhumane thing. I turn to the friends of the left: excuse me, why would it be inhuman simply to send back to your country a person who comes to this country without documents, clandestine, without respecting our rules,passing those who instead make the ranks worldwide in embassies to try to get a visa, telling them to line up like the others? I don't see profiles of inhumanity in behavior of this kind. Then, I repeat, let's write it in the law: if you come back again, or if after I told you to leave this country do not comply with the order, the second time we give a round of lives and we say that this time you take the sentence, but I don't want to put you in jail, because even if it is the second time, the prisons are full, so let's decriminalize. After the conviction, however, I warn you that if I fish you the third time, this time in prison you go there, so that you know all over the world that Italy is not the country of Pulcinella, it is not the country of the bacco: it is a country in which the rules must be respected. Then I say to my colleagues in all the Groups: let's start thinking by giving a positive signal to the whole world, even in relation to dreams to reality. Someone earlier made some critical remarks about my Kyenge land, which I share. I have never shared, certainly not the color of the skin (every man and every woman is my brother), but his policy: integration is not done with the proclamations, it is done with realism. When prefects do not have the money to transfer people to the mainland, it is clear that the CIEs are closed due to lack of funds. This is a shameful thing done by the Monti Government, which gave 30 euros a day to maintain the CIEs, which had 60 guests or 2,000, without taking into account that with those 30 euros it was necessary to guarantee the doctor, the nurse, the cultural mediator, the treatment. It is clear that with that availability it happens that then the CIEs close. From this point of view, then, I agree much more with the friends of the League. It is said with great enthusiasm to close all the centers where are identified those in Italy who are illegal and who refuse to decline their generalities and that the police know very well that they are drug dealers or pickpockets. So let's get to the point (and I tell the citizens): either those are held in the CIE, and they can be there even a week, if they get identified (but why don't they get
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u52	You should finish, Senator Giovanardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u53	GIOVANARDI (NCD). I'll finish. Or, as happens, they're in the streets committing crimes. And do you want the public not to be alarmed if these, instead of being held, increase the percentage of crime in our streets? Finally, as far as the issue of drugs is concerned, I have seen that some temporary amendments have been tabled. I am the first to say that I am thinking in the Commission and seeing what may be modified, but we do not introduce such sensitive matters with parliamentary amendments that are constructed, more often than not, with a distortion of the regulatory reality, that is to say a falsification of the regulatory data from which we must start if we want to improve situations. These are the reasons why I call on the Government to work to ensure that this debate is not an end in itself but is the starting point for an overall review of the immigration law, but done with seriousness and rigour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u55	Senator Cappelletti, why are you intervening? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I have asked for the floor on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u56	Personal interventions shall take place at the end of the sitting. Excuse me, Senator Cappelletti. Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u57	Madam President, Senators, the debate on this draft law directly addresses some aspects of the political debate that has taken place in recent times, although it is certainly not a new issue for the parliamentary classrooms. I will not dwell on the overall assessment of the measure, which is generally aimed at reducing the overcrowding of prisons, although I would obviously have preferred a less fragmented and more homogeneous text. The deflated policies, although limited to the short term, are certainly useful, as evidenced by the data related to the law n. 199 of 2010 of the Berlusconi Government, thanks to which on 31 December 2013 there were more than 13,000 prisoners who were able to take advantage of it. In this case, these are alternative measures which can be used in the last 18 months of the sentence. I would point out, again, that a real reform of detention is no longer possible: the data tell us that the too often abused preventive imprisonment involves more than 40% of the prison population. An emblematic fact on the state of health of our justice, to be considered also in the light of the pathological slowness of the judicial system that still sees 10 million pending trials between civil and criminal. And if there are two parties to the trial, it means that one third of the Italian population is waiting for a justice response. A slowness that had only one recent exception, of course Silvio Berlusconi, where three degrees of judgment were consumed in less than a year. This is the real political crux of the issue, in a debate in which, on the one hand, we do not want to deal at three hundred and sixty degrees with the issue of the reform of justice and, on the other hand, we follow the proposals for overcoming the Bossi-Fini law, until we anticipate the total and indiscriminate opening of borders, and then arrive at the demands for liberalization and decriminalization of so-called soft drugs. And it is here, on the subject of immigration, therefore on the repeal of the crime of clandestineness, that serious reflection is required. We have heard so many, too many, in recent months from the members of the current majority and from various members of the Commission. On the emotional wave of the tragedies experienced in Lampedusa (and not only), for which we have all felt a deep pain, the Government has launched itself in a series of resolutions that, if realized, inevitably end up contributing to the worsening of an already very critical situation. The theme of the reception must be addressed without hypocrisies and without waving flags of solidarity, which remain only flags of facade. As Angelo Panebianco wrote in yesterday's editorial "Corriere della Sera": The reception cannot be the guiding criterion of a serious state policy. Because it collides with the inescapable problem of "scarceness." How many immigrants can be welcomed? How many resources can we make available to them? These are not trivial questions, because if there is no work, if there is no home, if there is not the possibility of a dignified life for all those who enter Italy, they are inevitably forced to commit crimes to survive. It is precisely in the light of these considerations that it is clear that the decriminalisation of the crime of illegal immigration goes in the opposite direction to that of the interest of the State, of the citizens and therefore of the measure under consideration. Just look at the numbers related to the prison population referring to foreign prisoners: out of the 62,536 prisoners present in our prisons at December 31, 2013 (source Ministry of Justice), as many as 21,854 are foreigners; well over 30 percent. A constantly growing figure which, with its reception policy alone, can only see further significant increases. When it comes to detention, empty prisons, alternative measures, we cannot fail to take into account a serious analysis of the social danger of certain crimes and the need to combine a general improvement in prison conditions with the guarantee for citizens of a satisfactory level of security. Overcoming the containment policies put in place in recent years (from the agreements with the countries of origin to serve the sentence in their country, to the patrols of our coasts) means sending the signal that we can enter without problems, thus producing a domino effect that, especially in an economic-employment situation like the present, inevitably ends up strengthening the ranks of crime. The Commission's good intentions to bring this matter to Europe do not seem to me to have been followed up by concrete actions or specific commitments by the Union at least to date. On the contrary, judging by the debate that has opened these days in the rich and productive Germany, where now measures are being studied to combat mass exodus from the poorest countries (just the opposite of what our Government is doing), it is clear that on these issues national interests cannot always converge with those of the Community. I say this because that 35 percent of the prison population represented by foreigners also has a social matrix - relative to the crimes committed - that tests the same paths of integration. Among the irregulars, as the data of the Ministry of the Interior and ISTAT tell us, the percentages relative to the crimes committed are very remarkable, while among the regulars is in existence a substantial equivalence to the levels of the Italians. While in 1990 foreigners were 2.5 percent of the defendants, in 2009 foreigners already accounted for 24 percent of the total defendants. Foreigners also account for 32.6 percent of the total convicted, about 35 percent of prisoners in prisons and 45 percent of the total in prison. The very nature of the crimes committed must not be overlooked: if in the thefts with dexterity, in the robberies at home we are now about 50% of the total of the crimes committed, very high percentages have been recorded - always according to the data of the Ministry of the Interior - for sexual violence, injuries, extortion and, in general, violent crimes. That is why those who think they are making the acceptance end in themselves the cornerstone around which to build new immigration policies are wrong. Wrong! Eliminating any form of deterrent (and the crime of illegal immigration is, above all, a strong deterrent for those who decide to enter illegally in our country) can only deceive those migrants who from us - ISTAT data on employment tell us daily - would inevitably end up having to survive under conditions devoid of dignity and, very often, outside of legality. Bringing everyone in, giving the signal that everything is allowed by us, will inevitably result in an increase in the number of immigrants without a job and without the means necessary for subsistence, and this will inevitably have a direct impact on the number of crimes committed and, therefore, will produce new prisoners. Other than emptying prisons! [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] To refrain from all this, not to look with due attention to these dynamics, does not help the path towards greater integration. On the contrary, it goes in the opposite direction. It is as if one wanted to resolve the overcrowding of some hospital structures by resigning patients in mass, even before they are healed. Not taking into account the specific nature of the crimes and the dynamics behind the crimes of immigrants would produce the same tragic result. But if the numbers quoted so far are not yet sufficient to frame the overall relationship between illegal immigration, crimes committed and the prison population, a further statistical demonstration is represented by the situation of the prisoners present in the institutions of my Region, Veneto. A region that suffers, like all the national territory, from the serious economic crisis still in progress. The reduction in employment capacity and, consequently, the reduced number of foreign workers required had a direct impact on the number and type of crime committed. To be even clearer, out of 2,969 prisoners in the prisons of Veneto, 1,722 are foreigners. This is 58 percent, a figure that, in addition to testing the total capacity of the structures, makes it impossible to re-education or re-socialization. To adopt policies based only on a demagogic and utopian reception would be too high a risk for the preservation of our social fabric. This is a European risk, which will make us look more and more like the EU's soft belly. A country where imported crime will feel free to act, given the small amount of detention. That is why saying no to the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration means yes to legality. It is a cultural battle, which the Italian left does not want and does not know how to face. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u59	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this debate - without repeating the concepts already expressed by previous members of the Group - to underline what I consider to be an important political fact, which must be pointed out to those who today have the goodness to listen to us. This discussion allows us to think more widely, compared to the simple text of the measure under consideration, and that concern those that only a few months ago appeared the two great novelties of the Italian political framework: on the one hand the PD of Matteo Renzi, on the other the 5 Star Political Movement of Grillo. Both parties had proposed themselves as a novelty, for programmatic content and communicative modes, and they equipped themselves, albeit to a very different extent, to speak also to the moderate and centrist electorate. In reality, today, both the PD of Renzi and the 5 Star Movement are throwing the mask and revealing their true face, assuming a typical position of the left forces, indeed of the extreme left! Immigration and drugs are two very sensitive issues, which have ethical and moral character and implications beyond legal Byzantineism. On such sensitive issues, the message from Parliament necessarily inspires social values and individual and collective conduct. If, colleagues of the majority, you decide to abolish the crime of illegal immigration, that is to decriminalize some conducts in the matter of detention and drug dealing, you assume a very serious responsibility and launch, as a ruling class, devastating messages, not even so veiled, to our young people, on the one hand, and to the masses of migrants of the South of the world who aspire to enter Europe, on the other. Let us look at what other more advanced and prosperous European countries do, to whom I believe we should inspire our legislation. I hope that my colleagues in the majority have documented themselves a little and are aware that the crime of illegal immigration is foreseen in the laws of the United States, France, Spain, Switzerland, Great Britain, Germany and other countries, some of which Mr Malan mentioned earlier. On the border between Greece and Turkey, near the river Evros, has been built in recent years, precisely to combat illegal immigration, a double barrier of cross-linked and barbed wire. Since 2011, only the European Union has approved this project. Spain defends with arms the enclaves in the land of Africa of Ceuta and Melilla. I do not say that it is all right what the other countries on the southern side of the Mediterranean do, but, against this, it is completely unreasonable and irresponsible to intentionally transform Italy into the soft belly of Europe, the door of entry of all those who aspire to their more prosperous future on our continent. Our country has a broken economy and would certainly not be able to withstand an uncontrolled flow of migrants. We cannot complain if the deplorable phenomena of racism and xenophobia are manifested. Equally devastating would be the message to decriminalize some of the prison and drug trafficking practices. Our young people would eventually perceive the idea that drug use is socially and morally acceptable. I do not believe that Italy can inspire its own legislation to that of Uruguay by the extravagant President José Mujica. So before you vote on this measure, colleagues in the majority, think about the irreversible consequences of your decisions. Talk to those involved in the recovery of drug addicts and listen to their heartbreaking appeals. Be aware of your responsibilities. Does the Boy Scout Renzi not recognize that the liberalisation of drugs contradicts the principles he has been educated to which, in words, he claims to be inspired? But how do the Catholics of the Democratic Party vote on these standards? And how can the friends of the New Right Center, of the party of the Interior Minister Alfano, approve the abolition of a fundamental rule of the Bossi-Fini? Are you not tired, dear friends, of being humiliated by a Matthew Renzi who never ceases to provoke you and snubbe you? What are you waiting for to take away the trust of this irreconcilable government? What do you intend to do today, dear Giovanardi, who has always strictly followed the issue of drug addiction? Would it not be appropriate to acknowledge, once and for all, that this majority daily contradicts all your inspiring principles, both on ethical and economic issues? Finally, I would like to address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. Beppe Grillo's great cunning and histrion has tried in every way to make you understand that abolishing Bossi-Fini is a mistake and that all the advanced countries must put serious filters on uncontrolled immigration. But your formative and cultural matrix, inspired by themes proper to the third world left, eventually forced, after the recent online survey, your great leader and charismatic leader to back down and accept your thesis. I believe that, in general, your precise political characterization is good! It is finally clarified, once and for all, the misunderstanding that has allowed you, even in Veneto, a region from which I come, such a broad electoral consensus. For all these reasons, the measure under consideration, which in some respects also contains positive aspects, especially as regards decriminalisation and reliance on trial, constitutes a serious error and as it is formulated today it cannot have my vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u60	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say 'Europe, blessed Europe', but I will not say it. The rapporteur for this measure stated that this is a genuine structural reform, and it is a real response to Europe as regards the emergency prisons, after the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Torreggiani, which condemned Italy for the difficult situation of prisons. That is what the rapporteur says, and as a majority rapporteur we have everything. Our Group, on the other hand, Madam President, believes that this measure mystifies and mortifies a fundamental principle, which is often and willingly the subject of enunciation by all political forces, particularly during electoral campaigns when it comes to justice: it is the principle of certainty of punishment, which is also the principle of effectiveness and effectiveness of punishment. We believe that this measure strongly undermines the instruments provided to guarantee these principles. It is a harmful and wrong decree, against which we are making and will make a hard opposition, and we will put in place all possible instruments to be able to block it. This provision is probably something definitive for you (not for us), which must be called by its natural name: this is not a jail salva, but is an empty prison; indeed, this is a delinquent salva. This is a measure that guarantees legal impunity to those who commit crimes and to those who commit crimes of particular social alarm. Let us return to Europe, a Europe which, in my opinion, is intrusive, Madam President, a very meddling Europe. Instead of dictating the law on stupidities in all fields, get a good buzz to check what can be done for the invasion of non-EU citizens who are literally assaulting this country. Now we do not expect them even in our territorial waters, nor in international ones, we go directly to get them in the ports of origin! In fact, with the last boarding, there were two to the appeal, we waited for them more than an hour! And he's not cute for our law enforcement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Let us move in this direction, my dear Europe. And by 'dear', Mr President, I do not mean the emotional meaning of the term, but I mean 'extremely expensive' Europe, because by May Italy will have to fall within the parameters of the dignified reception of prisons. We were condemned for this by the European Court, wandered by the President of the Republic on 8 October last, when he openly asked senators and MPs to intervene with indult and amnesty. On this issue, of course, Madam President, there has been a debate among all parties and controversy among political leaders, sometimes very harsh: many have proposed the modification of the former Cirielli on prescription, others the modification of the Bossi-Fini on immigration, and finally the amendment of the Giovanardi law on light drugs. Yet in 2013 the government intervened with two decrees law in an attempt to lighten the overcrowding of prisons. But the situation has not changed at all, and you must acknowledge this country. You, members of the government, must also acknowledge this. Those who thought that the problems of the penitentiary system with the advent of the first measure emptied prisons were mistaken, because the plan provided for the realization of several thousand more places, but we are only at the initial stage and in less than a third of the planned Regions. Most of the unjustly released subjects have found hospitality in the prison patriae; it is probably not that they felt really uncomfortable, to return so soon. Italy is a Republic no longer founded on work, but on the laws that are first enacted and then in turn, with a sponge stroke, erased. With a towel stroke, my dear President, the legality has been canceled. In a country where we need the certainty of the penalty to allow citizens to rest, what do we do, Madam President? Thousands of thugs and nothing-doers are being freed, and they will be back in crime. To the cry of "there are no funds for the new prisons," I would like to remind the whole Assembly and the representatives of the Government of the excellent work, which has already been mentioned here by some of my colleagues, Senator Castelli, who had first studied its criticalities and had first drawn up a plan for the realization of new structures, and then watch it sinked by successive Governments. A country dotted with about fifty unused prisons, never finished, between new and old, which are wearing out due to lack of maintenance; a country full of barracks now unused, which could easily be converted into prisons. Of course, you had been given a solution; we had presented a counter-proposal of law that provided for non-EU citizens to serve the sentence in their countries of origin and, therefore, at their home. This is, Mr President, some sort of nationalised house arrest. You did not move a finger to go and talk to the governments of these states and convince them that it was the right solution. Of course, you had to commit, and that's probably not for you. It was enough to copy what good Maroni did with the Maghreb countries. Probably, even here, we're talking about subjects of other thickness. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Italians, I don't want you to get angry here: you don't have to be angry and even doesn't give you the power to be angry. You don't have to do this because getting angry means expressing a negative feeling towards someone; you can't, because most of you are complicit in this government. You supported it, voted and - unfortunately - you were deluded by it. We who have never woven praise from this Government and this majority, nor have approved their initiatives, we, alongside these citizens who have supported us, can be angry. Many in this country are doing so; even those, dear President, who have not voted for us, nor supported us. With this mischievous provision hundreds of criminals are put back on the street that will put us to a hard test thanks - precisely - to an unholy law and that will return to delinquere and, consequently, to prison. Maybe if we do a roundabout outside the prison, we risk avoiding traffic jams. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we know - the representatives of the Forces of the Order denounce it every day - that the staff of Police and Carabinieri will not be enough to guarantee your found vouchers. Therefore, take away resources, means and patrols from what is the fundamental, unique and exclusive function of the Forces of Order: to guarantee the security of citizens. And then, what does he ever want: when they are still in prison and - perhaps - they have also lost the place they had before in prison (there is also that problem), there will also come some other Minister, of another enlightened Government, who will free them. It will be - perhaps - a minister who took your votes and your family, dear citizen who you are listening to from home: the Minister maybe of a government that would be good to go and do some other work. The solution of overcrowding of prisons is not the emptying of prisons and at least the amnesty. In this House you all know what the position of the Group of the North League and all those honest citizens who see this measure as yet another betrayal of a government to the vote they have received from the people. If we were to go now to make some sort of bland referendum on this issue, I do not know if you would reach 10%. The North League will climb the barricades and from this Group there will be a strong opposition to those who think of amnesty. From this group there will be a strong opposition to those who think of making tricks so as not to let the criminals in jail. Sometimes it is said - it has been repeated several times also in these classrooms - that it is right to give a second chance. Someone has also dared to say: let's also give a third chance. Madam President, we have worked years to introduce the stalking crime and we have worked years to ensure that the stalking women denounce their harassers. Years have worked for people to learn to trust institutions and to confide in the system before it was too late. Madam President, I have a very spontaneous question. What are we going to tell these people, who have seen a way out of their drama? Are we going to tell them that we've been joking (maybe not the North League)? We're gonna tell them that when a stalker gets caught, we're gonna release him right away? Madam President, it seems to me that we are working as one of the animals I hate the most: shrimp. This measure is a very harmful shrimp! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The solutions that the measure provides and that we will strongly oppose do not go at all in the direction that the citizens want, that is to guarantee the certainty of the penalty, to protect the security of our communities. At a time when everyone - and indeed everyone, Madam President - is calling for a policy of severity, responsibility and a serious contrast to crime, this measure, as it is set out and as it was approved at first reading in the House of Deputies, is a clear surrender of the State. It represents an unconditional surrender of the State in the face of crime, at a time when this must, or should, put in place measures to combat those increasingly disruptive crime in our families and cities. What does the state do instead? It does one thing very simple and almost nice: it sends a different message, wrong, surrender, unconditional abandonment of the need to guarantee security to its citizens. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, do you have any idea what uneasiness the people suffer when there is a robbery or a mugging? Believe me, Madam President, lonely women, if they have no one to accompany them, have difficulty returning home, and those who are in the house are afraid that someone will come in. Have you ever tried, Madam President, to stop and make a simple withdrawal from the ATM? In my previous speech I had compared the members of the Letta Government to garden dwarfs, firm, immobile, with the look always directed at the same direction, which are discoloured with time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Well, Madam President, this is the image that the Commission offers, both inside and outside of this country. Immobilism has characterized its economic activity, towards work, towards exodus, towards young people and small and medium-sized enterprises, creating enormous damage to the economic and social fabric. As far as measures relating to immigration, non-EU countries, prisons and criminals are concerned - all people to be protected, for God's sake! - then you are no longer still and still dwarfs, but gazelle: jump long tot and high tot and prove a fantastic liveliness. I would then like to say, Madam President, that when things are of interest to you, you are transformed from dwarfs into gazelles. It would have been better, Madam President, to use this liveliness to solve the pressing problems that grip the country. Instead, you have turned your attention from gazelle only and exclusively to issues that should be addressed more seriously and accurately, with a vein less good and much more serious. Here I would say a very simple thing to those who talk about ius soli and repeal the crime of illegal immigration. Perhaps we are not realizing what our countries and cities have become. I don't know if we need immigration to do the most humble jobs, but I just know that there's a queue of kids who would do the most humble jobs in the world to make ends meet. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] These are people who have graduated, who have finished school and who have had the humility to put their lives at risk in order to make ends meet. Who has a girlfriend, who wants to build a house, who wants to buy a small apartment. Sometimes you have difficulty paying the rent. I have a little comment for Senator Cappelletti. Just a little consideration, Senator: but if you were not good for the League, why should you be good for the firmament to my right? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Probably, indeed, dear Senator, it is because we are much more selective in the choices of our candidates and the ability of the members of this Group is proof that you were not good for us. I would also like to remind you that until 1996 you shared these battles, Senator, and you fought them with us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Of course, a few years have passed, but the problems associated with these issues have only become more acute. Our battles will always have a vigor that you don't even imagine. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u62	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u63	Madam President, one of the advantages of being a Member of the 5 Star Movement is that we can approach each type of issue pragmatically and not ideologically. We do not have the constraint, the obligation, towards those who elected us, to support an ideological flag and to plunge into a demagogic discourse that - without any surprise - we are also obliged to hear today, especially from the banks of the League and from some exponent of Forza Italia. I am of course referring to the debate that has taken place so far on the issue of the so-called crime of hiding. The impression that I and my colleagues have had is that colleagues who have preceded us or do not know what we are talking about, or know very well, but, by playing their precise role as solicitors of the bellies of their electorate, they are willing to support the greatest falsehoods and lies in order to be able to maintain the consensus, which they obviously feel is crumbling. But these ‐ for pity's sake ‐ are very questionable considerations, on which I already feel that, of course, colleagues behind me do not agree. I begin by publicly launching, anywhere, parliamentary or external, an argumentative and reasonable challenge. If a colleague of the League or of Forza Italia is able to demonstrate that Article 10-bis of Legislative Decree n. 286 of 1998, inserted in the year 2009 with the Maroni package, has served to discourage the arrival of a single underground non-EU citizen or has served or still serves the effective expulsion of a single illegal, please bring us the evidence. What I support, unlike those who preceded me and perhaps follow me, is that I can tell the truth. Also for my personal experience - I am a modest provincial attorney, ex officio defender sometimes of defendants for the crime referred to in article 10- bis before the judges of peace of Salento, the land from which I come - I assure you that, in years of professional exercise, commenting with colleagues, with magistrates, with policemen forced to come to testify that they had found that illegal landed from the dinghy at a time, obviously with cost and with overload of work for the chancellors and faxes to send to the CIE and the CARA (an incredible job and a waste of energy), all of us in the audience asked ourselves: what is the use of this norm, this crime? It's no use. You also know that the applicable sanction, which survives the various censures that the Constitutional Court and the European Courts obviously had to pronounce in relation to the original text, today is only a fine of EUR 5,000, and you know very well that it is never recovered: a euro has not been recovered from the people convicted of the crime of illegality. The crime of clandestineness is not to expel anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear listeners of Radio Padania, if you ever have the opportunity to listen to this voice, after considering what your representatives have legitimately said.. . [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Sorry, since Radio Padania I also pay for it, because it enjoys public funding, I would like to have space - one against ten who have spoken - even on that communicative channel, which deserves to be considered. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear listeners of Radio Padania, know that article 10- bis of the Bossi-Fini law, which the Senate will probably try to repeal today, is of no use. It is a useless article, because it is not used to discourage the arrival of illegal immigrants. The evidence is in the data and in the facts. Since 2009, the number of illegal arrivals has not decreased in any way. It is a harmful rule, because it costs the State economic energy and energy expenditure for structures and subjects already overloaded like courts, prosecutors, chancellors of the judges of peace, attorneys of office, police forces and maybe even those cooperatives that manage the centers of identification and expulsion for asylum seekers (also there would be talk about this). It is a machine that serves, and it has served, only to you, that you have ruled since 2009 until today, to give a demagogic satisfaction to that part of Italians who do not know the truth and believe your lies. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Arrigoni]] Because you know very well that if this rule is repealed, Italy will not be invaded more than it is today. It's no use! If you can prove otherwise, prove it. If you know what we're talking about, try it, and don't make fun of Radio Padania's radio listeners. I say it because I think of them: Poor guys. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). You poor bastards! BITONCI (LN-Aut). You're gonna be the poor thing! BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like not to be interrupted. I refer to Senator Malan's speech, which demagogically stirs the spectre of the invasion, if we eliminate the crime of hiding: They know this and from the coasts of Africa they will reach millions. In fact, they are terrified of the fine of 5,000 euros that we would do to them, and thanks to this rule Italy is keeping its borders closed when these savages arrive. He tells us that illegal immigration is a crime throughout Europe. It is true that in some legal systems there is still such a crime, but we know very well that in the most representative ones, with which we relate, or we try to relate more often, namely France and England, prosecution is optional. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] The immigration management system is perhaps made a little more intelligent, less jagged and brainy than what we have created, from the Turkish-Napolitan law to the Bossi-Fini law, to about 3,000 legislative interventions in this area. Justice workers know what I'm talking about. If you go to read the Single Text, Legislative Decree No. 286 of 1998, you will find articles long an entire page. Those rules are jammed, complicated and difficult to interpret, even for legal practitioners, and they are of no use in court. But we don't want to talk about the Bossi-Fini law. I would like to say to my colleague Zanettin of the Forza Italia Group, who first referred to that clever Beppe Grillo who made the referendum on the abolition of Bossi-Fini: stop lying! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Italians are getting it. We are not at all putting our hands on the Bossi-Fini law, with what was our amendment and today it is the text of the law. The Bossi-Fini remains standing, for the good and evil of that law. Then when we talk about immigration, we will get right together and maybe you will do what we are doing, consulting the citizens and not taking forward and demagogic positions: both those who say to expel all the illegals because we are invaded, and those who are ready to support a good reception, not reasonable and who do not find the feedback of the resources of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not true that we want to abolish Bossi-Fini. The expulsions, the residence permits, the flows of entry: everything remains the same, dear citizens you are listening to us (from Radio Padania or not, it doesn't matter much). [[Senator Bitonci's comments.]] There are interferences, Madam President. I wanted to respond to the colleague of the League, Senator Arrigoni, who pushed himself to use sarcastic tones (although of course the criticism is legitimate) on the way in which yesterday took place an event that, in our opinion, is historical. Now, with all the approximations that that online consultation may have brought with it (the short notice, the little time to vote, perhaps a lack of explanation of the reasons in support of a vote for or against), you have to note that it was the first time that a parliamentary group has returned, for the decision of a vote, to thousands of citizens, who - attention - were not members of the 5 Star Movement, were not people who have a party card, perhaps at a fee, as happens for your parties: they were citizens enrolled in a blog of a person named Beppe Grillo, who, together with Gianroberto Casalegio, had and is having the great merit of making possible what is happening in these months in Parliament, in Italy, with all the mistakes that we can commit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do not, in fact, presume to be perfect and the best, but we are showing you that politics can also be done this way, without getting rich and without spending a euro of public money on financing. But this is another field, and I close the parenthesis immediately. So, we talk about the referendum, and in this the friends of the League are in perfect company with the Unity and the other media of the so-called left, which continues to give us daily examples of humor on the front pages that we can not really escape from reading, from buying: let's go immediately to see the cover of the Unity or other newspapers. We are truly amazed to see where some kind of journalism comes in order to enslave himself to his chief of staff. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It has been said that 24,000 are few. But how many Italian PD citizens have decided with you how to vote on the TAV? How many were able to express their voices about the F35 and the fiscal shield? We're trying. We're getting started. Yesterday's is just the embryo of something. It may be that we are wrong and that we are overly presumptuous. But in five, ten or fifteen years that January 13, 2014 will perhaps be referred to as the embryo, the first experiment, perhaps even rudimentary, of something that can change the very idea of political representation. This is something that many of you do not understand, and some, who have understood it very well, have a great fear of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] So, we say you don't have to be afraid. You've been getting to know us these months, and maybe you're also appreciating some of us for what he says and does and for the consistency he's trying to maintain, By doing it. Let's start thinking together. Let's do self-criticism. We have the mission to send you home, and we say it in a non-aggressive way: we do not beat you away, but we invite you to reinvent with us a political representation that today, in the eyes of someone, may seem unimaginable, like so many revolutions in the history of man and society seemed unimaginable and inadmissible. The women's vote! If we had said seventy years ago to give the women a vote, how many would have twisted their noses! It takes the courage to imagine the Italy we want, and this Italy has already begun, and it starts with us. So, no to demagogy, and we say it ourselves, those often pointed at to be demagogues, guru puppets, followers of Cricket, of the comedian, of the former comedian and so on. Many Italians have now understood and, even when they watch the news or browse your newspapers, whether party or not, they are understanding it and will understand it more and more. As far as the newspapers are concerned, I took a note of President Gasparri's reply, who presided over the House at that time, to my Parent Company: he invited me to read today's newspapers to verify that the subject was on the subject. The reading of today's newspapers gives us a truly uncomfortable view of mystified information. Yesterday's experiment will remain in history. We returned - and we used the blog that made itself available - to this consultation. Today we are spokesperson: it is not Maurizio Buccarella, Carlo Martelli or the single one of us voting today, but that slice of Italians that are certainly not the 3 million people who have given 2 euros for the primary, but they are citizens who have been able to participate directly in one vote for free. You'll see. These words I hope will be to some extent prophetic. In a few years we'll look back. You will look back and remember those lunatics of the triggers that in 2014 succeeded with the Internet to urge us in a few hours, without notice, without organization and without a euro of public money or who could participate, to tell us how to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, apart from that, and remaining on the substance of the draft law under consideration, decriminalization, suspension of the procedure with trial and against the irretrievable, I would stress that our approach has been - needless to say - pragmatic. Let us make a positive overall assessment of this measure. We are opposed to indult, amnesty and emergency measures, because we know that they have a very limited scope without structural measures. The measure we are discussing today is one of those structural measures, even if it may come a little late, since it was fired in October last (for this reason, I am making a small roll of jackets for the Presidency).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u64	I would ask you to conclude your speech, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u65	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I should like to conclude, Madam President, by stressing that perhaps it would have been necessary to speed up the process of this measure even more, as well as others who, directly or indirectly, aim to improve the situation of Italian prisons. Therefore, our vote on this measure will be in favour. We have proposed improvements, but we believe that all in all this is a fair, reasonable path, which must be taken immediately, together with other measures, because there is a need to have just justice, a sure sanction, without having to be ashamed, once again, of our being Italian in the eyes of Europe and the world, for the state in which 65,000 people live their lives every day in our prisons. Thank you, and of course I greet the radio listeners of Radio Padania. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u67	Madam President, it is a pleasure to speak last, because I can do a little bit of what I have said today. Frankly, I believe that this debate is taking place in a somewhat surreal climate. There is a kind of rubber wall (my country would say that there are the deaf people of Pontirolo, that is those who only understand when they want to listen). I repeat that there is a surreal situation. However, I think it is appropriate to intervene to reaffirm the position of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group and, above all, the dangers that Italian citizens face with the approval of the measure under consideration. Today we have seen, on the one hand, who denounces the dangers inherent in it and has clear consequences that can be had with its approval and, on the other hand, who does not care about it, who believes that the previous experiences that should call us to greater caution can be ignored. I do not want to mention the indult because it is a different case. However, even then - I was present in Parliament - I have heard several Members say that people benefiting from an understanding attitude towards their situation would certainly not have returned to crime. The demonstration was that 85 percent of the people who left prisons thanks to the indult in the end fell back into various crimes and therefore ended up again under the lens of justice in our country. Therefore, being so good in one sense is certainly not the correct behavior that we have to keep, if we want to be just as well as good towards Italian citizens. In my opinion, the problem is that in the Palace, in this House, there is no full understanding of the wishes of the citizens. The 5 Star Movement made a survey, to which I believe 24,000 people responded, to know what his supporters of the crime of hiding thought. I would like to carry out a survey to see what are the priorities for our fellow citizens and what is their judgment on the content of the so-called decree emptys prisons; I would like to understand whether our fellow citizens prefer the adoption of a bill of this kind, which generates - needless to deny it - greater insecurity, fear and, I dare say, even terror, or if they ask for the government and Parliament to commit themselves to finding new resources in order to give more help and help to the law enforcement forces in their work, to create new prisons and to ensure security and tranquility. This does not mean guaranteeing the moon or extraordinary things, but only letting ordinary and normal life live to all simple people, to all those citizens who would like politics to care about their problems only to guarantee this kind of quiet and ordinary life, preventing all those problems that you, with these choices, go to create to all the audience of citizens, because as I said before it is useless to deny it: there will be consequences for everyone. All the more so I am concerned about the adoption of a measure when this happens with a virtually absolute sharing. When I first entered a city council in the 1990s, they told me: be careful, because when the center-right, the center-left, the right, the left and also the DC (of then) are all agreed, the solutions are two: either they are voting on a measure that says nothing, or they are fooling you. I see that at this moment center-left, center-right and 5 Star Movement are all in agreement and so I suspect that the solution is the second one I mentioned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That is to say, I believe that for the citizens there are a very long time ahead of them, because this measure, despite some people being obstinate to say that it is a measure that Europe wants, but in the face of our country's inability to deal with emerging situations with ordinary instruments, is not an instrument that Europe wants: it is used as a means of convenience to perhaps also have savings in the management of the penitentiary administration, so that we can avoid investing in new prisons, so that we can avoid bringing out public money that is not there at the moment, or if there are used for other priorities. If we go to see, in fact, the content of the law of stability and what was the content of the decree so-called save Rome, we see that the resources for certain initiatives that cannot be shared (to use euphemism, of course) had been found, while the resources for the new prisons or to give more instruments to the Forces of Order seem not to exist at this moment. They were available two weeks ago, but today, perhaps because we are in 2014, they are no longer there, but this is an excuse that cannot stand, an excuse that the citizens understand very well, despite that veil laid out by public information on the debates we are doing in this House, that the citizens know and understand, thanks also to those information tools, if we want, poor that someone perhaps first in an ironic tone denigrated a bit, like our Radio Padania or like the satellite channel, that transmits the discussions that take place in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies, or as Radio Radicale, to mention them as well. All these instruments, which alas are not sufficiently listened to, in my opinion, however, allow people who are willing to understand what is happening to make an opinion and therefore to know what is actually happening in this House and to understand what will be the address that the Government will adopt on such sensitive issues as security and prison sentences. We always fall there, when it is said that we must be open to different solutions than those of the right rigidity and the correct application of serious and concrete penalties to people who have committed crimes, we abdicate substantially to the role of prevention and disincentive to commit the crimes themselves. It is therefore possible for everyone to think that, entering this country if you come from outside, but also being citizens of this country, however committing crimes does not automatically involve going to jail and ending up in a surrounding house, because there is always the possibility to spend a few months or a few years sitting comfortably in your living room in the company of your loved ones. Well, that can't be a deterrent. Let us realize that one of the fundamental issues on which to reason is precisely the fact that the penalty must be a deterrent, and spend, perhaps in a beautiful villa with swimming pool, the house arrests cannot be considered a deterrent. That's not how it works. It is only the fact of having a real deprivation of freedom that leads those who intend to commit crimes to think twice before doing so; otherwise, if it is so easy, if it is such a simple road that does not involve serious sacrifices, everyone could try, especially in an economic situation such as the current one, because maybe they live a situation of need that they want to resolve in an illegal way. We cannot provide any alibi: this is another of the arguments that we must make. We cannot give alibis and we cannot say that on issues like this there can be an opening in the debate that can give us a feeling of further insecurity in our fellow citizens. Today we are in a situation in which the citizens of our municipalities live barricaded at home: they are afraid to go out, not only in the evening but also during the day. Today we live in this situation, and the message we must give cannot be certain to facilitate all those who are outside of these houses, not to knock to enter and be welcomed benevolently, but to enter in a hidden way, to steal those four poor things that often there are in the apartments of the people; entering these houses without even knowing what they can steal, but creating incredible shocks in people's lives; entering even the poorest houses, and especially often committing acts of heinous violence that then leave their mark for life. So it is natural to wonder where you live when you make these proposals; where you live when, in the face of situations of this type, you cannot understand that the path that must be taken is another. The citizens certainly want peace of mind, they certainly want the justice system to work. Some people said that there are also trends that indicate that crimes can be considered decreasing. The crimes reported, perhaps: today only those crimes involving insurance cover are reported, because it is useless to make a complaint about the theft in a house if you are not covered by an insurance policy for the items that have been stolen. This too must be taken into account: statistics should be read looking at the problem at three hundred sixty degrees, looking at it from above and not from within, because observing it from within you risk seeing only a part of the same, and therefore not having a full knowledge of what is happening. I wonder: there are so many crimes that are listed within this measure also as regards the possibility of granting alternative penalties compared to imprisonment from four to six years. We express in this House the right, full and strong solidarity with Mr Esposito for what the No TAVs are doing to him. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups),]] For what they're doing to him with the Molotovs at home, but then, in front of people planning terrorist attacks, you hear: But no, come on, all in all, they're kids and they have to be understood for what they do: let's not send them to jail, let's leave them home to their mom and dad who makes them breakfast in the morning. This is the hypocritical contradiction that exists in this House! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is what you are doing with the approval of this provision. Mr Arrigoni, speaking, called on everyone to be responsible, to get rid of the lestophants and that there will be consequences. This is certainly a reason for our strong opposition. Mr Divina spoke of stalking and rightly recalled what happened a few months ago in this House: everyone agreed, everyone applauded, all colleagues shared the spirit of the Istanbul Convention; then today we are here to say that, all in all, it was okay to play that part then, but today we are in a different situation: today it is another movie, we are acting another part. No, I think we need to be consistent: we need to be consistent as legislators, we need to be politicians - even if colleagues in the 5 Star Movement do not like this term - who make choices by making assessments, taking responsibility. Throughout the day I have heard about the crime of hiding, about the poll of 24,000 voters who say it should be abolished. Well, if you think that the survey to which 24,000 people participated, who gave that outcome, should be your address and should be shared, I wonder why, for example, your group in the Lombardy Region often contests the program of the Junta Maroni, when that program was submitted to judgment online and was approved by more than 400,000 Lombard citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If the people's judgment is always to be respected and therefore democratically it must be acknowledged, it cannot be said that a position is good when it is expressed only by our own people and is not good when it is expressed as a whole by citizens who may not have voted for us. Having said that, and calling all of us to coherence, but above all to the fact that this measure is extremely delicate, Madam President, in conclusion, I believe that we can still have the opportunity to do something good by considering the amendments that have been tabled, which have a heavy impact on the text at our time of examination, because - as I pointed out in my speech - this is not the way we have to go, that is not what asks us to do people, that is not what leads us in the direction of safety. The road that the government has taken and that this Parliament is approving and supporting is the path of terror: it leads us to despair, it will lead us to a further war between the poor, to an even more marked social confrontation. This is the fundamental concern that I want to resign you with my speech, but I can assure you that it is also the concern of the common people, of those people who may not go to vote at the Democratic Party banquets or who do not participate in the online consultations of the 5 Star Movement but is the one that really pulls the cart in this country and is the one that suffers the most, and often these people are in the North. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u68	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u71	BATTIST (M5S). Madam President, I would like to invite everyone. I and my group's colleagues often stand up in this House when the Presidency announces the presence of young people in school. I think that today we have given representation of the worst of the political class, of a certain political class; we know that politics is pathos, love, hatred, impetuousness, but I think that a spectator, seeing what happened today, the first feeling that he can have is a sense of contempt for what happens. So the invitation that I make to myself, first of all, but also to all my colleagues, especially when there are these schoolchildren, is to have a proper behavior in this House. Today there have been numerous interventions: we have examined a measure in which the key issue was the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration. I have a little thought: when I finish the session and leave the Chamber and when I arrive here, there are four soldiers at the entrance of St. Louis de Frances Square and four soldiers in front of that of Madame Square. Then you just have to cross Corso Renaissance and go to Piazza Navona to see - but perhaps I am the only one to see it - dozens and dozens of immigrants, many of whom are certainly illegal, without the presence of Forces of order. Around this Palace we have about 10 soldiers with different shifts, but in Piazza Navona there is no one. There is this phenomenon: clandestine walkers, or perhaps with some tourist permit, who sell products, among other things without making any tax receipts, and we do not talk about this. It is something that happens 50 meters as the crow flies from this Palace. I call on everyone to reflect on this issue because - I repeat - if this is 50 metres from this building something is wrong with this measure. I therefore address the entire political class, including the League for when it was in the government, because I have seen this phenomenon more than once coming to Rome, also to Piazzale Flaminio and also to my city. Every time I leave the Palace there is always a non-Italian person, I don't know whether regular or irregular, in which the Forces of Order never intervene. [[Applause from Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u72	Senator Baptist, you should finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u73	BATTIST (M5S). Madam President, if it is necessary to give support to the forces of order we also call younger staff because I personally witnessed in via della Dogana Vecchia the escape of an immigrant who a carabiniere, no longer very young, failed to chase. I therefore call on everyone to reflect on the validity of this measure, which seems to me to be purely demagogy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u76	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I have asked to speak on a personal matter, but it is not my intention to raise any controversy. I've been quoted a couple of times, and I just wanted to make a quick and serene consideration. When you can't attack ideas you attack the person. That is my consideration. I have been accused of youth activism in the North League: it is true, it is not a secret, it is written in all the newspapers, and it is easily found on the Internet, I left about twenty years ago, when I grasped the soul, which was basically mystifying. Give me one thing: to get out before it became the movement of the diamond bags, the investments in Tanzania, the dossier "The family". [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u77	Senator Biinella, let me speak, because first there are those who have addressed Senator Cappelletti and now he has the right to say his.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u78	Mr Capelletti (M5S). I left before I was two and a half years old in jail with your former treasurer only a few months ago. Well, I left, and I invite you to do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-165.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 15 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
