ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Since, as announced in the short term, the sitting should have been suspended for an institutional commitment of the Group of the North and Autonomous Leagues, at this point I suspend the sitting until 10.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 10.32 a.m.) 10.32 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:33 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u11	LATORRE (PD). Madam President, today's agenda also includes the debate, with the consequent vote, on the decree-law on military missions. As you well know, both you and the entire Parliament, the Presidents of the Defense and Foreign Commissions of the Chamber and Senate have taken on, in these days, an initiative related to the dramatic event that is anguishing our country, which involves the two gunmen Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who have been in India waiting for judgment for two years, as well as the no longer tolerable attitude of the Indian authorities. As a result of this situation, Parliament, in order to support the work of the Government, had... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u12	I really beg all senators to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u13	LATORRE (PD). ... had promoted a series of meetings and initiatives aimed at internationalizing the story and asking all international institutions, our allies and in general to the whole democratic world, to join Italy to demand respect for international rights and norms. We must not forget that our gunmen were at the time engaged in an international anti-piracy mission, covered by the United Nations. Compared to this initiative, we were building... president. I apologize, Senator Latorre, if I interrupt you, but I must ask all the senators in this House to pay attention and to lower the tone of voice. LATORRE (PD). I understand that these are hours in which a debate on the political future of the country has already begun. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's as important as you have to tell us. LATORRE (PD). We're worried about issues that concern the fate of our two soldiers. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, NCD and IP Groups]] , but above all we are dealing with the dignity of our country in the world. So, on the margins, let's talk about something else. We don't care much. What we want to say in this context is that, subject to the commitment we have made, of course also to discuss and confirm all international commitments, yesterday there was an important hearing of the Foreign and Defence Joint Commissions. In that place, the Foreign Minister - after me, President Casini will also be speaking about this - has not only reassured us, but also re-launched the need to promote a major international initiative, guaranteeing that on this front he is gathering the consent of the institutions and our interlocutors all over the world. On the other hand, in fact, in recent weeks we have recorded the position of President Barroso and some Heads of Government, and we know that the President of the Council and the President of the Republic, even after our initiative, have taken action. Yesterday, however, something has happened which has impressed us very much and which concerns us. We refer to the statements by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who stressed that this cannot be a matter on which a commitment of the highest international institution is characterized, but it is a bilateral problem of the two countries, Italy and India. We are very concerned about this statement, and it is also contrary to what the Minister of Defence told us yesterday. So we ask you, Madam President, hoping to interpret Parliament's sentiment (this is also the view of the members of the Foreign Commissions and the defence of this branch of Parliament), to discuss these missions and this measure (we do it as a political act, not to question our international commitments at the moment) only after the Foreign Minister has come to this House to tell us how the Italian Government intends to react to the recent statements of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and PI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u16	CASINI (PI). Madam President, I fully endorse President Latorre's statements and, since I agree with them, I do not repeat them. However, I would like to specify - in order to draw the conclusions of his reasoning - a precise request: we want to suspend the examination, scheduled today on the agenda, of the decree extending international missions, until the Government has come to this House to report on the unacceptable statements made yesterday by the UN Secretary-General. [[Applause from the PI, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups).]] Let it be clear that, in view of the strategy that has been explained to us to internationalise the subject of the Maròs, in accordance with the position that was expressed, in the sense indicated by the Italian Government, by President Barroso and Commissioner Ashton, yesterday evening we had a complete denial by the UN Secretary-General, who re-proposed the thesis, by now exhausted, of a bilateral problem between Italy and India. From this Senate a single voice must be raised: this is not a problem between Italy and India, but it is a problem between India and the international community because our maròs were framed in an international mission of anti-piracy endorsed by the UN. [[Applause from the PI,PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] ). We cannot be left alone by the UN Secretary-General, and we want the Government, immediately before the examination of this decree, to express its position and tell us what initiatives it intends to take. I think the unanimous will of the Senate is to clarify this point. The government tells us the initiatives it has in place to counter a unilateral unacceptable vision of the UN Secretary-General. It seems to me that if not, we cannot proceed with the examination of the measure extending international missions. [[Applause from the PI,PD, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u19	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to express, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, my appreciation and appreciation for the words of the Presidents of the Defence and Foreign Commissions. A short time ago, when there was a joint meeting of the Commissions 3rd and 4th, I allowed myself to raise the question of the unacceptable declarations of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, and this resulted in the Commissions' position and decision, given, among other things, that the decree-law on missions allows for a wide-ranging and serene discussion. It expires on 16 March and, at a time when measures are being taken in Parliament, there is the possibility of waiting for the Government to report on this specific measure. Our Group has shared a number of initiatives, both in Parliament and outside. I claim as the merit of the Foreign Commissions and the defence of the Chamber and Senate the parliamentary mission, which someone had criticized and which, on the other hand, was also an opportunity to involve and increase awareness of all the institutions, the Government, the presidencies of the Chamber and Senate and the President of the Republic, in which he met a delegation on the return from the trip, taking further initiatives of stimulus. The statements of Senators Latorre and Casini are to be signed. I do not want to open up controversy here about the United Nations, whose glorious history is also made up of many useless statements. However, we, the Secretary-General, Mr Ban Ki-moon, would have expected solidarity with Italy and our military, who cooperate in so many parts of the world for security and freedom, much more than the UN does. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We therefore believe that it is an issue that invests the dignity of our nation. Although I understand - I say this without any irony - the difficult hours of politics and government, a government in office is there and I believe it can make its voice heard up to the UN Palace. We are not, in fact, faced with a bilateral affair between Italy and India. We weighed the words, understanding the risk of our military; we appreciated the visit of the Minister of Defence on Monday; we wait patiently on 18 February to learn about the new decisions of the Indian authorities; we understand that India is in the process of the electoral campaign, with all the internal confrontation: but that is enough. From the Senate Chamber a strong warning comes, a reference to the rights of our military and respect, which is not only due to La Torre and Girone, but that the UN Secretary-General owes to a nation like Italy, which has thousands of women and men engaged in so many crisis scenarios to risk their lives also in order to allow the UN to carry out its activity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD groups and Senators Casini and Latorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u22	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I can only join with the Lega Nord Group in the remarks that have been made, partly because the validity of President Casini's words and then President Gasparri's words is clear. Our country is a country that, without reservation, has always made itself available to the international community, with sacrifices of people (even final, unfortunately) and with important financial commitments. We cannot, therefore, accept that the event that concerns our Maroons is being treated as a fact between two nations. Given that the reflection must be extremely deep, because we have forces engaged that even risk being ascribed to situations like piracy, I believe that we need a general assessment not only on the form of participation of our country in international missions, but also on these particular situations, which have been - I remind colleagues - debated deeply in the last legislature: in what form we could have given protection to ships with respect to piracy... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u23	Please, I would ask colleagues, both in the right and left hemicycles, to lower their voices. Please, Senator Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u24	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I understand and understand that at the moment there are perhaps particular fibrillations affecting the Government. From this, however, it is not our intention to give rise to controversy. We are not interested in knowing what kind of government will come to make its contribution to Parliament to understand the situation with regard to this extremely important affair, which concerns people, but - let me say, President - it also concerns the dignity of a country that, when needed, is always present. A solution, however, we must find it: we must find it for the Maròs, who have been waiting for two years now, we do not know what, but we must find it also to understand how we are considered at international level. In fact, if the considerations are those made by the UN and you remember in this House, perhaps a reflection together on what we should do about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u27	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I believe that the emotion of this moment - which is certainly difficult for our country - with particular reference to an affair that has been dragging for a long time and which is becoming increasingly painful, must also be accompanied by reflection. I am convinced that it is also necessary to maintain full control of what we are doing and of Italy's attitude on the international stage, which must pursue with determination - and therefore also with patience - the objective of asserting our reasons on the international political and diplomatic field. I believe, then, that the decision taken by the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the House and the Senate - which my Group has agreed - was right to ask our Government to come and report to the House, because of course the statements of the Secretary-General of the United Nations are demanding and must therefore be read very carefully, requiring, from Italy, a clearly stronger and more adequate capacity to support their own reasons. I therefore believe that it is right to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come and report to Parliament to understand what initiatives the Government, supported by Parliament, must take to effectively support our reasons, both at European level and at multilateral level, with particular reference to the United Nations. Let us be careful and control our emotions: I would not like to see the temptation, which has never brought luck to Italy, of the "many enemies very honor" in some Group. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] At this moment we must build a network of strong friendship around Italy and around our reasons, which are strong reasons. I am therefore convinced that our Government, which so far has always had the consent of Parliament for the attention with which it has followed this story, can certainly continue and continue its action in this direction, in the interests, first of all, of our Maròs and of our Country. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u30	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, our Group supports the request made by Presidents Latorre and Casini. I would also like to say that I very much share what Senator Tonini has just said, in the sense that, from our point of view, this is a very delicate issue, which we think should be dealt with with with very carefully and intelligently, if I may say so. In fact, I have the impression that, over the last few months and years, a certain language and rhetoric - which has been used, unfortunately, also in Parliament - are not at all beneficial to the cause of the Maroons. On the other hand, I think that we should have much more capacity on this issue to put in place a political and diplomatic initiative aimed at strengthening friendships, not to isolate our country, of course also to make controversy, when it is necessary, and with a strong demand for respect for human rights, knowing that it is, Madam President, a delicate affair in which we must never forget that there are two deaths, all too often, during these months and years, they have been forgotten in the story we are making of events. I want to think, of course, of course, of our Maroons and their families, of the state of dismay they probably live in these hours, but I would like us not to forget that there are two innocent Indian fishermen killed. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u33	SCAVONE (GAL). Madam President, the LAG Group strongly supports the request made in this House by the Presidents of the Defence and Foreign Commissions, but I would like to stress a few aspects without wishing to be an ultroneo. The statements of the UN Secretary-General are disconcerting: if our hearts and minds are not absorbed by the concern we have with regard to the fate of our Maroons, we should not escape, at this moment, that these statements represent a risk of isolation at the international level of our country, in which the policy of all too fragile probably opened the way to considerations of this lightness. I am speaking of lightness, and I stress this, because it is right for this House to know what we have seen going to India as parliamentarians, with great conviction and harmony, without indulging in any instrumentalization with respect to what we have found. We have found two military of our country of the highest level, and here I want to emphasize the quality of the Armed Forces, the Navy, in having been able to select extraordinary people on the level of the psychological estate and in having been able to form them in this way. We have found two soldiers who give lustre to our country, two people for good, of great composure and of great psychological estate. I would add that it is true that there are two deaths, but it is to be determined whether those deaths are to be attributed to the direct responsibility of what happened at that time. We are careful to the instrumental simplifications: the two fishermen who died were on a fishing vessel that was never seen by the commander and the crew of the Italian ship and the Italian ship was indicated because, very simplistically, a red and black ship had been identified. That is what we are told in that situation. Let us remember, therefore, that our country deserves to be defended and deserves to have at this moment a Government capable of raising its voice and to stand straight behind these acts of lightness that Italy also suffers from the UN, also for another reason. Together with the military, we have been able to observe, and it is right that this is known in this House, the capacity of the Italian ambassador to India, Daniele Mancini, respected by the entire Indian diplomatic component, to the extent that it has allowed us to meet all the ambassadors of Europe. The Presidents of the Commission met with the ambassador of the United States and, if I may say so, probably from this and not from the others, they have experienced a condition of difficulty in dialogue between your country and India. India is a country in difficulty, it is a country at the turning point, after fifty years of politics that has held it until today. India is a country that someone has convinced that it is a great power, and the great power risks asserting itself on the skin of people outside the facts that are being challenged to them. I remind myself and everyone, to complete the reasoning, that if Italy is engaged in actions that are of an international type to protect everyone, we have the duty, not only to our military, but to the Armed Forces, to be recognized as a country like others, which helps to protect the balance and peace in the world. Therefore, we expect the Government to courageously inform us of the immediate response strategy, with respect also to this superficial consideration that we have recorded from the UN Secretary-General. It is necessary that, until then, other issues of this kind should not be dealt with by this House. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u36	Orellana (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement Group supports the request by Senator Latorre and Senator Casini that the Government, in the person of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, clarify in the Chamber, as soon as possible, this profound distonia among the words that it used yesterday, with which it has guaranteed us a strong involvement of the international community (the so-called internationalization of the matter, which is an act - at least this - urgent and due) and, instead, the words of the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who brings this incredible story back to a merely bilateral issue. The fight against marine piracy is a struggle that Italy has been leading for years: with the Ocean Shield mission, under the aegis of NATO, with the Atalanta mission, under the aegis of the European Union, and with the protection of Italian merchants, under the aegis of UNCLOS, which is the one in which, unfortunately, our Navy rifles fell two years ago. This struggle, which has many facets, is not receiving sufficient support from these three organizations. So far, only the European Union has spoken, both at the level of the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ashton, so that, in my opinion, it is insufficient, but at least we have had a clear indication that we want to see it as a European problem, and no longer a bilateral one, as perhaps we thought at the beginning of the matter. I think, however, that this path must continue: the European Union, India's first trading partner, must assert its weight. I agree with those who talk about the need for more thoughtful and calm attitudes, but diplomacy does not mean a lack of firmness. Firmness in this case must not be lacking in Italy's option and position. There is still work to be done on this, a bit because the European Union is India's most important trading partner, a bit because we know that India aspires to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council. I really want to know if Ban Ki-moon's attitude is due to ignorance of the problem (which I do not believe) or rather to political calculation linked to this appointment that India wants to have. Italy, however, cannot remain firm, but it must ask for the help of the other countries of the European Union (some of which are already permanent members of the UN Security Council) and the United States, which are perhaps the most important member of all, and of the countries that support NATO. As for NATO, I have not heard any words condemning this situation by Rasmussen. The internationalisation work, which we can also promote with our peers at the parliamentary level in the national parliaments of Europe and at the European Parliament level, cannot be lacking in clear and clear positions on the part of NATO, which has not yet expressed itself, and in a total change of attitude on the part of Ban Ki-moon. On this point, however, we want guarantees in this House from the Government. I don't care if it's a weak, strong or fibrillation government. Italy is at the side of our two rifles and cannot remain the victim of a weak Europe or a weak Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Alicata and Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u39	ALBERTINI (PI). Madam President, the People's Group for Italy of the Senate joins with conviction and full agreement with the proposal of the Presidents of the Foreign Commissions and defends the postponement of the vote on the bill for the extension of the international missions to the required clarifications. Reading the text of the measure that we should vote on, after having assurances from the Government of the internationalization of this case, we can grasp some incontrovertible facts. First of all, our presence throughout the international scene has always been shared by international organisations. Coming to Decree-Law No 2 of 2014, Article 1 extends the financing of our military interventions in Albania, Kosovo, the entire Balkan area, Cyprus, the Eastern Mediterranean. Article 2 refers to the employment of military personnel in Afghanistan, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Barhain, southern Lebanon, Israel, Hebron, Palestine, Georgia, Rafah. They are not bilateral relations: our country acts as a result of world-defined facts and circumstances. [[Applause from Senator Dalla Zuanna]] We also call for international relations, as well as civil law, to be applied to the non-implementation clause. We are part of this community, and because of our GDP and population we make our contribution and ensure our participation in peace-keeping or peace-keeping missions in these international scenarios, missions that travel around the world and commit our country economically and at the cost of human lives. We want this to be recognised. I would like briefly to make a few more quotes and to focus on a detailed aspect of piracy. We work with civilian forces as well as military forces in Africa, Libya, Somalia, Mali and Niger. Italy intervenes in Pakistan, Syria, South Sudan. Our country is engaged in these scenarios with all its possible energies. In the draft law of extension there is then a precise reference to what we would like to have been the criminal law applicable also to the scenario related to the fight against piracy and in the measure that we are about to vote there is nothing more precise and more precise than the reference to the position of our maròs. I quote in particular the postponement that the bill makes to article 4, paragraphs 1-e and 1-f, of Decree-Law 152 of 2009, according to which it is previewed the non-penalty of the military that, in the course of the missions abroad, for the necessity of the military operations makes use of the force and orders to make use of the force, provided that this happens in accordance with the directives, the rules of engagement and the orders legitimately given. That of the maròs is therefore a discriminating case that can only be subject to this discipline and can only be recognized not only by our law but by the entire international community, as our country is part of the international context that intervenes in this scenario. So we will renew our Italian commitment to these missions, fulfill our pact with other countries, provided that other countries recognize our role. [[Applause from the PI and SCPI groups and the Volpi and Alicata senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u42	GUALDANI (NCD). Madam President, the NCD Group has also decided, albeit painfully, to accept the requests of President Casini and President Latorre. However, we must reflect aloud and, unfortunately, with some strength. Let's just say enough about the attitude of this government that keeps stalling. I have recently been to India with a parliamentary delegation; we have seen a great diplomatic activity, but the Indian Government has not even welcomed us or listened to us: it continues to disown the basic legal principles of the international community, starting with those of the law of the sea. It has even been confirmed that the fact has happened in international waters and therefore Italy is attested to a possible process. The functional immunity of maròs is not recognized. With respect to the great dismay that has aroused the statements of the Secretary General of the United Nations, I would like to remind you that when Italy has been called on several times to defend peace in the most important international conflicts it has always been willing to participate, unfortunately also paying a high price in terms of human lives. So let's say it's enough to waste this time and the almost bullying attitudes of the Indian state. At this moment I feel myself under trial: it is not in fact a trial in Girone and Latorre, but it is a process that they are doing at the Homeland Italy and at all of us. This is a big violation. I hope, therefore, that the Government will also, in the first place, consider a possible withdrawal from anti-piracy activities, since we are identified as terrorists in the world. The government must therefore take an urgent position and also make the right protests at the UN, since the Secretary-General says that it is simply a bilateral relationship. I hope that the Government will urgently address this issue, because we cannot deny that we are currently on trial. I hope that the Government will give clear and urgent answers to the whole House. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u45	I see the microphone at your station is not working. ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask that our desk be equipped with a microphone. For a long time we have had an impairment of our right to speak. The Civic Choice Group agrees on the urgent need for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also the Minister of Defence, to report on the situation of international relations and on the action that our military administration and our diplomacy are carrying out in recent days in this framework. We warn, however, that there is a clear alternative - in this we fully agree with what my colleague Tonini has found - between saying that the interest that Italy defends in the affair of the marò is the interest of the entire international community and establishing a kind of relationship of exchange between what we do in the international missions of peace and what we ask that happens in terms of justice for our military today detained and incriminated in India. There is no such relationship of exchange: let us not admit our decision and our commitment in terms of international burden sharing on the ground of the peace missions to a do ut des relationship with respect to the events of the Maroons. We are not defending a particular interest of Italy on that ground, just as it is not in the name of a particular interest of Italy that we participate in international missions. Therefore, we must be well aware that the authority of our action to defend justice against our military in India is the same as our participation in the defence of peace and the interest of the community of Nations in all other parts of the world. [[Applause from Senators D'Onghia and Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u48	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have no reason to disagree with the opinion and proposal put forward by Presidents Latorre and Casini. They convince me of the reasons, to which I add the fact that this is a national issue. Any government we have, it is correct to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come to this House to report, and it is also correct to ask him to harmonize the position of the Government with that of the Senate, because I had the impression - if I look at the past, I would like to say the certainty - that there has not always been harmony between the two chambers and who represents the Executive. We need more incisiveness and we need confirmation of an internationalization of the matter. If we do not lift the veil, we risk manifesting a dramatic isolation: that is what Italy does not need, and that is why harmonizing positions between Parliament and the Government seems to me to be an extraordinary priority. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u51	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to inform Senators Casini and Latorre - so that they can better prepare for the commendable initiative - that last Friday, 7 February, the President of the Council, Mr Ban Ki-moon, spent about five hours with the President of the Council, because first there was a reception in Sochi organized by President Putin and then they participated together in the inauguration of the winter games, which took place just last week. So, President Letta will certainly have had information that can be useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u52	Faced with the strong and unanimous request of the Senate Assembly, this important requirement will be examined in the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups which will meet shortly, so that we can respond positively. I would like to thank the Presidents of Commissions 3a and 4a and all the senators who spoke in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u53	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1213. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the amendments to the text of the Decree-Law began to be examined. (11.14) Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the wide-ranging debate on the subject introduced by the Presidents of Commissions 3a and 4a, I believe that the sitting should be suspended and I call on the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups to address the timetable for our work there. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 12.23 a.m.) 12.23 p.m. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the additional opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the amendments. BERGER, secretary. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendments 10.6 (text 2) and 11.24 (text 2), submitted by the Assembly, relating to the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us take back from Amendment 5.7, which was previously put aside. I would ask the rapporteur and the government representative to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u54	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 5.7. Otherwise, the opinion is against it, because I proposed the G5 250 agenda for the same amendment and also for amendment 11.0.3 as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u55	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u56	Senator Lanzillotta, I ask you whether you accept or not the invitation that you have been asked to withdraw Amendment 5.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u57	Madam President, we do not accept the call or even the change of the amendment to the agenda, because we believe that the issue of policy financing is central to transparent reform. We are introducing strict rules on the financing of parties and party foundations, and we are not laying down any criteria and rules on the financing of associations, institutions and foundations, which are a fundamental part of the policy and the way in which it is organised. But this - as I said yesterday - is not bad. The point is that we have direct associations or presided over at national level by former Ministers of the Economy, former Presidents of the Council, former Ministers of Development and sometimes by Ministers and Presidents of the Council in office, who receive funding that is not declared but existing, as the related companies are associated, by companies and companies whose managers are appointed by them and on which they carry out and carry out functions of direction and control. Last week there was talk of moral or ethical behavior and someone said that ethics is affirmed, by the legislative institutions, through its own acts, that is, through the exercise of the legislative function: here is the moment, the transparency between the world of politics and the world of public economy is a fundamental condition to requalify not only the role of parties and politics, but also the way in which those companies operate and the way in which managers are appointed. I repeat: we are preparing for a season of nominations and we have an influence that is exercised through financial flows between personalities who contribute decisively to these decisions and the recipients of these activities. That there is a totally opposite opinion and that this issue is not being addressed, I find it very serious, and that is why we believe that there should be an assumption of responsibility through the vote. That is why we do not accept the change in the agenda of Amendment 5.7. [[Applause from the SCPI and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u58	On behalf of the House, I extend a greeting to the students of the LUISS University in Rome who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u59	I would ask the rapporteur, to supplement the amendments to Article 5, if she could also give us the opinion on Amendment 5.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u60	Madam President, I would also like to reply to Senator Lanzillotta's remark, pointing out that we are approving the conversion into law of the decree concerning the financing of parties. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u61	I would ask for a moment's attention, because we cannot listen to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u62	Please, Senator. DE MONTE, rapporteur. The abolition of public funding to parties is based on two pillars, represented by voluntary contributions and by two per thousand: there is an obligation to register in the register and there are also transparency obligations with regard to the statute. Of course, I agree with the demands made on transparency for individuals and contributions from participating companies, but it is precisely for this reason that I think it is desirable that there should be an organic and comprehensive discussion. Therefore, in this regard I have presented the agenda G5,250, which commits the Government to take every initiative to ensure that a general and complete discipline is established on the cases in question, those referred to in amendments 5.7 and 11.0.3. With regard to Amendment 5.0.1, I would like to make a rewording proposal to Senator De Petris, because I would like to remind you that yesterday Amendment 5.0.1 (text 2) received the opposite opinion from the Budget Commission and, consequently, the previous text of the amendment was again tabled. I would like to propose the following rewording: After paragraph 2, insert the following: "2-a. In accordance with Law No 441 of 5 July 1982 and subsequent amendments to the capital and income statements, the same statements must be accompanied by an indication of what has been received, either directly or through committees set up to support it, however called, by way of donations exceeding the sum of EUR 5,000 per year. These statements are highlighted on the website of the Italian
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u63	I would ask Senator De Petris if he accepts this proposal for reformulation, but first of all President Azzollini to give his opinion on the new text, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u64	Madam President, I said yesterday that I would no longer give opinions under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure under these conditions. I apologise but you must give me a very short time to convene the Commission on this matter. It is a choice already made yesterday: the conditions do not allow me to do so. That's what I said yesterday, and that's what it's like. [[Applause from the NCD, M5S and Senator Di Maggio groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u65	However, we are forced to set aside the amendment. Senator De Petris, do you still accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u66	Madam President, the reformulation, fortunately, introduces the obligation for any elected person to indicate in the statement on his or her balance sheet also the contributions of more than EUR 5,000 received directly or through the Committee. The part on non-interest-bearing loans would be excluded: we regret it, but we welcome the rewording, because at least it introduces the obligation for the individual elected to make public declarations of contributions received, either directly or through the form of committees.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u67	With the rewording accepted by Senator De Petris, we keep the amendment aside until the Budget Commission has carried out the necessary checks. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.7. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u70	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 5.7 focuses on political foundations. It is, in fact, money sieves to the system of parties and politicians. They are already largely financed by generous private individuals (it can be said that it is indirect financing). I remember the case, for example, of the Italian Foundation of Europe, which saw 30,000 euros in the form of advertising from the gambling lobby; we see the Big Bang Foundation referred to Matteo Renzi, who has among the generous funders Davide Serra, of the Algebris Fund, famous for having headquarters in the Cayman; we have, then, Guido Ghisolfi, of the chemical group Mossi&Ghisulfi, who with his wife, Ivana Tanzi, paid another 100,000 euros; we have, finally, Alfredo Romeo, arrested in 2009 [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] , with serious accusations and sentenced to first instance to two years. Here, we already have a number of private lenders who, by size and also by identity of the origin of the funding, are questionable; but it is absolutely unacceptable that the financing of these foundations should also be carried out by private bodies or companies, even though they are involved. It is not enough for us to exclude from funding foundations which have elected political leaders or presidents with positions of a certain level. It is not enough, because it might be that, following the vote on this amendment, the Management Board and the Chairman will change so that they can still receive this funding. It is, however, a beginning, it is something important, on an extremely delicate subject and I would say burning. We will therefore vote in favour of Amendment 5.7, but we will also be careful that, in the light of the law, the deception is not immediately found. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u73	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we will be voting in favour of Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senators Lanzillotta and Susta, because the issue it raises is very serious. It is clear to everyone that not only now that we are on the eve of the great season of nominations, but also because of the experience of what we have been able - alas - to verify from the various news in these years, this is a crucial issue. In fact, foundations participated by public bodies, including through members of these companies, with the financing of foundations or direct financing by these managers, may influence further appointments. I would like to point out that also amendment 11.0.3 (correct text), which I tabled and which the Commission then took over, in some way addresses the same issue, proposing the extension of the prohibition of financing or contribution also to the members of the boards of directors of publicly-owned companies. It is clear to everyone that in this case a much wider influence than the general political influence itself can be determined. It is a sensitive issue, and I, by making an explanation of vote in favour, would ask the whole House to give serious thought - in the name of transparency and what is stated in this decree-law - if it is not appropriate to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u76	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Amendment 5.7 raises serious issues. It is clear that, albeit indirectly, there is very often a relationship between nominations and donations, particularly where nominations derive from political choices of parliamentary groups, council groups, councils or ministries. I therefore believe that it is necessary to assess the merits of this amendment and also to make an effort: we can proclaim all the desires for transparency and separation between political choices and entrepreneurial behaviour, but the link emerges very often and, in this sense, we must give a very clear signal. I believe (maybe I will then say this in the final explanation of vote) that it is necessary to defend with dignity the point of view of the need for public funding; at the same time, however, we must cut those links and those relationships that certainly alter the wills according to the contributions. In this sense, then, at least on a personal basis, I shall vote in favour of Amendment 5.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u79	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to announce the vote in favour of Amendment 5.7 and to invite the House to a very serious debate. You see, colleagues, the first and true cause of the current economic crisis is given by the amount of public debt and by a form of pauperistic, welfare and clientele state that has failed or failed to find within it so far any element to manage with private, corporate and managerial criteria all the things it invokes to itself, and one of the deviant aspects of statism is the transmission belt that binds those who govern the State with those who manage it, also through the companies involved and all that is listed here. On the other hand, the example of Mattei and ENI in the 1950s was eloquent, and was hailed by the political genius of that time as one of the favorable distinguishing elements of that political society. Now, to break the osmosis that exists between institutions participated by the State and bestowals that the State does through these societies that are controlled by exponents of the political parties that at that time govern and represent the State is an essential element, it is the first element to eradicate the deterior form of occupation by the parties of the State and the edification of the client state. But I wanted to remind Senator Endrizzi that we must not just look at the epiphenomenon: this is one of the many ways, for the State heatsink, to burn resources. This is one of the things that must be done to reform the state, the others are epiphenomenal. If you do not realize that the cryptosocialist model must be replaced by the model of liberal and liberal state management, with efficiency, productivity, economicity, these interventions will be only hot cloths compared to the tide of money that this state wastes. Our vote will therefore be in favour, and I would like to remind the House, if I may, that I had in my hands, as a Member, a few years ago, a little book that was written by the member of Mr Follini, which I think was called "Cuci e scci" (I don't remember exactly, but there was a needle), and they were camping, behind these forty pages full of redundancyes and toiletries, the advertising of the ENI and the advertising of Finmeccanica. If this amendment is to avoid this waste of public money, applause goes to Senators Lanzillotta and Susta. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u82	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few words to what Senator Lanzillotta and many other senators have already said on this subject. I would just like to point out, in the explanation of vote and, of course, forewarning the favorable vote of the Civic Choice Group on this amendment, that the attempt to rebuild a trust relationship between the citizen and the State, to moralize politics, to restore it to its natural function of guiding the political processes of change and government of the country, which should be the main role of the parties, is the basis of an amendment like this. An important personality in our history has also been mentioned: I believe that the phrase that the parties are taxis on which you go up and down depending on the conveniences is exactly the opposite of what we want to represent with this amendment. It is necessary to break the perverse link between politics and business even when it passes through state companies, the participating societies, in a redistributive logic in negative and thus fully return the parties to civil society, to their function as the direction of national political life and to be communities in which free men find themselves for certain purposes. I believe that the almost total convergence of the Senate of the Republic must be recorded on this amendment. I hope that all political forces, in particular the Democratic Party, that the relationship between ethics and politics makes a fundamental reason for its existence, will ultimately vote in favour of this amendment which also makes clarity with respect to the degenerations we have witnessed in republican history. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u85	Olivero (PI). Madam President, the Group of the People's Party for Italy also has the decision to support this amendment by Senator Lanzillotta, because we believe that it expresses a good will, which our Group feels is very strong, to make clarity and to bring transparency in the relationship between political parties and the economic world. In particular, I believe that we have a great duty to ensure that the costs of politics are cut, starting with those which are indirect, hidden and not transparent. We have to tell ourselves with great sincerity: the situation that drives us today to take drastic measures, which will in many ways also have a significant weight on the life of political parties, stems from the fact that politics has not, in the past years, been able to cut indirect costs first. Sometimes we put at risk the possibility (and today is a bit of an opportunity) of having the right funding for political activity, because there have been injustices. And today we must be very determined to go and cancel this funding. There is a fundamental theme, that of participating societies. On several occasions, we have already stressed, in the past months, the need for a more virtuous relationship between participating societies, public responsibility and citizens. We want more transparency and, of course, we also need a clear and clear relationship between the State's control functions and those who have to administer public goods and resources on behalf of the State. This amendment has substance and is extremely important in this respect. We therefore ask all colleagues to consider it very carefully. We shall be voting in favour of it. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u88	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we, too, are certainly opposed to covert and swindling funding, to favorable exchanges between public funding, given with public money, and private benefits. But I don't think that's the way. In this amendment there is practically written that, in order to avoid these situations (from which, among other things, we of Forza Italia, having always been very good at not giving life to foundations of this kind, we are totally excluded and we would have if anything interest in approving an amendment of this kind), a foundation, which aims to promote public policies (so in all sectors), if presided over by my colleague Sergio Zavoli cannot have public funding; if presided over by Totò Riina, instead, can have public funding, because Totò Riina does not bear the mark of infamy of being a member of Parliament, of the regional Council, of the provincial or municipal Council. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] This would mean that if a foundation is presided over by my colleague Carlo Rubbia, who I suppose has some title, so much so that he has been appointed senator for life, he cannot have funding; if instead he is presided over by a complete ignorant, perhaps even with a low level of honesty, this is fine. I would add that, as Mr Endrizzi said, if there is an intention to make undue profit and to have hidden funding, it is quick to replace that former member of the Senate, House or City Council with a forerunner or a person who has not received the infamy mark of being a member of Parliament or of some elected assembly, including a local one. We should not forget that, for some millennium, the fact that men and women who have particular talents and who can be asked to say something about public life have been involved in public life is seen as a positive thing. However, if a scientist, a political scientist or a sociologist engage in public life, not him personally, but his foundation, is excluded from funding. We should remember that democracy is not a bad thing, that political commitment is not a bad thing and that if anything, political disengagement is bad, staying out of it and not participating in the good of your country. That is why we shall vote against Amendment 5.7. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Sposetti and Zeller]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senators Lanzillotta and Susta. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G5,250 will not be put to the vote. I would remind you that Amendment 5.0.1 has been put aside. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 10 of the decree-law, which was previously set aside, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u90	I am in favour of Amendment 10.6 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u91	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.6 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u95	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on this amendment and, at the same time, on the amendments tabled on the remaining articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u96	We have to proceed article by article, senator. Montevecchi (M5S). But they've all been set aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We can't proceed as you requested. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.6 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the previously provided decree-law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u97	I am in favour of amendment 11.24 (text 2). Since the G5250 agenda was accepted by the Government, I withdraw amendment 11.0.3 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u98	Madam President, on Amendment 11:24 (text 2) the Government is returning to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.24 (text 2). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.24 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.0.3 (correct text) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 16 of the previously provided decree-law, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u100	I am against Amendments 16.1 (text 3) and 16.3 while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 16,250 (text 2). Instead, I turn to the House on Amendments Nos 16,100 (text 2) and 16,250 (text 2)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u101	Madam President, I would like to withdraw Amendments 16.1 (text 3) and 16,250 (text 2)/100, otherwise the opinion is against it. The Government refers to amendment 16,100 (text 2). I am in favour of amendment 16,250 (text 2). The opinion is opposed to amendment 16.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u102	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.1 (text 3), on which the 5th Commission has given an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u105	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) and the following. I would remind the House that the establishment of the Integration Fund for the employees of parties today, which, in fact, remain unemployed, means first of all legitimising a new case of abuse of the Integration Fund, in addition to giving this treatment in situations and to parties that have never paid its contribution. On the other hand, Amendment 16.1 (text 3) aims to apply the correct measure in this case, i.e. a treatment of unemployment accompanied by appropriate measures for the reintegration of the worker into the productive fabric. At a time when we are proposing to moralise public spending in relation to the costs of politics, it does not seem to me - and it does not seem to the Civic Choice Group - that renewing the abuse of the Integration Fund is a coherent option. Finally, I would like to point out that while, for one thing, we attribute extraordinary Cassa Integrazione treatment to employees of parties who have never paid a lira for this treatment, on the other hand, we impose the burden of 3% for the future on parties who will not presumably take advantage of that treatment, since it is unlikely that a crisis in the sector will be declared in the near future or remote because a party will fire or have difficulty in maintaining the employment relationship with a part of its employees. So, we do an operation with a high degree of irrationality. For this reason, I would ask for support for the vote on Amendment 16.1 (text 3) despite the negative opinion of the Budget Commission. The Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of this amendment and against the subsequent amendments to Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Ichino, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 16.1 (text 3) tabled by Senator Ichino and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.100 (text 2). I would remind you that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have returned to this House and that, if approved, the subsequent amendments would be excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u109	GATTI (PD). Madam President, I rise very briefly to say that I do not think it is appropriate to have an attitude of such great hostility towards workers who have been addicted to the parties for two reasons. In fact, if there was really serious evidence, even of misconception, these usually did not involve employees. These are the responsibility of some corrupt politicians, who perhaps should find a way to control them. For employees, however, I think there is a need for employers, whatever they are, to take responsibility. Parties are not a criminal organization, but are free associations of free citizens. So let us also define for these workers, using legislative intervention, the possibility of taking advantage of adequate social shock absorbers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u110	I greet the students and students of the scientific and classical high school "Leonian" in Anagni, in the Province of Frosinone, to whom I welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u113	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I would just like to reply to my colleague by stressing that it is not a matter of hostility towards the people who work for the parties, but it is about the fact that social shock absorbers should be guaranteed for all people and not just for those who work for the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here, on the other hand, we continue to distinguish between A, B and C series workers and always and only give guarantees to certain categories. I repeat, no one is mad at the people who work for the parties, but the guarantees must be given to everyone. So let's reform the social shock absorbers so that all the people who are at home and do not arrive at the end of the month can eat again, instead of being on the verge of poverty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u116	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). I believe that this issue must be addressed in its real terms and not in the terms just mentioned by Senator Gatti. We had proposed a solution - which was rejected, however - which dealt with the problem of the employees of party structures which will have to be reduced in a realistic way, i.e. with a relocation contract that would lead these workers to a different occupation. In fact, there will be no new party from which they will be recruited. The integration fund is made for workers in sectors in crisis, with a view to the structural reorganization of the company from which they are made redundant at that time. Using the resources for the integration fund for party workers means taking it away from workers in factories and companies that have a future and can have a recovery, but for which there will be no resources because these will have been improperly absorbed by party employees. I repeat that the latter cannot have a relocation because the parties will not have any other employees. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, please let Senator Lanzillotta speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u118	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Therefore, to be opposed to this amendment does not mean beings against party employees, but to seek the appropriate solutions for different situations, without taking away resources from the workers who at this time of crisis struggle, in the public budget, to have the funding of the integration fund that would be theirs. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u121	Montevecchi (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Montevecchi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u122	I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 16,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Sposetti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Caleo's comments at Senator Lanzillotta's address.]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1213 PRESIDENT. Amendments 16,250 (text 2)/100, 16,250 (text 2) and 16.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u125	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would like clarification. The last vote was on Amendment 16,100 (text 2), right? All the other amendments...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u126	All other amendments are foreclosed following the adoption of amendment 16.100 (text 2). There is only amendment 5.0.1, which has been put aside to enable the Budget Commission to examine the new wording. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u129	[[Brusio.]] I always ask those who have to go away to do so without causing too much trouble to those who need to speak and to those who want to listen. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, in 2009, following the announcement of the Fabbrica Italia plan, the Government merely took note of the decision taken by FIAT announcing the cessation of production of the Termini Imerese plant. The government said, however, that it was committed to tackling and solving the problem by trying to find different work solutions by opening a table at the Ministry of Economic Development. Four years have passed and various governments and no one has done anything, while FIAT goes towards a disengagement with Italy. Other than Fabbrica Italia! In a few months there will be no minimum wage guaranteed by the Social Security Fund, to the delight of some senator present here who obviously thinks that being in the Social Security Fund is also a fault to be attributed to the workers. Tomorrow the workers of FIAT Termini Imerese will go down to the square, it will be a territorial strike. The workers go down to the square for work. They want and ask for work. Everyone will be present at their side: the social partners, students, craftsmen and traders. Finally, I'll add! This dispute concerns 1,200 FIAT workers, but counting the workers who work in the pipeline are many more... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I have read that the local parish priests (so not those dangerous extremist trade unionists) have declared that the crisis that gripes our territory is increasingly serious and that we are called to act, to work for the good of our territory. We cannot and must not remain immobile because without decent work there is no future. I regret the blindness of this policy, which once again pretends to be nothing, compared to these tragedies, which are now before everyone's eyes. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u132	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, there have been nine children since the beginning of the year who have taken their lives as a result of cyberbullying. The last suicide occurred on Sunday afternoon in Padua and concerns a 14-year-old girl. She jumped. A distance of 30 meters between her life, upset by those who wanted her badly, and her death. Before he left a series of heartbreaking messages to apologize to his parents: sorry for letting them down. Colleagues, it is not a decision dictated by a raptus: he had planned everything because those phrases that ridiculed it on the social network "ask.fm" canceled it at an age (14 years)... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u133	Senator Mattesini, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u134	It's already been a few minutes. Anyone who has to talk, please, get out of the Chamber. Please continue, Senator Mattesini. MATTESINI (PD). An inquiry was opened by the Padua Public Prosecutor. I stress that Ask.fm is a site founded in Latvia, already active in 150 countries that every day counts from 200,000 to 300,000 new members. A site that Cameron also asked to boycott. It has a user almost exclusively between 13 and 18 years of age where, if you want, you can hit in the dark. I used this phrase because with words you can do much more harm than with facts. The verbal violence of young people without faces unleashes with the same naturalness with him the water comes out of a tap. There are real verbal beatings, and look, colleagues, that the virtual pack is more repulsive than the real one. Those phrases like "you suck," "kill yourself" are often addressed to so many boys, not just to that little girl who then killed herself. But the point isn't just the "ask.fm" site because it's now the web in general that has become an occasion of great violence that makes even more fragile that fragile age of our young teenagers. Let's think, for example, about the growth of sexting, that is the exchange of photos dare on the Net. A search by Save the Children on cyberbullying, made on the occasion of yesterday's day dedicated to the fight against bullying, tells us what are the heavy consequences for minors and what is the great risk they are subjected to: 69 percent of girls and boys isolate themselves and no longer leave home; 62 percent refuse to go to school; 53 percent fall into depression. This issue - and I say this to you, Madam President, and, through you, to the Government and Parliament as well - needs to become an emergency on which to intervene immediately. I would point out that a draft law has already been deposited (in this regard I would ask for special attention from the Presidency, but also from the presidencies of the Commissions) at the first signature of Senator Elena Ferrara, with provisions to protect minors for the prevention and fight against the phenomenon of cyberbullying. I ask that there be a commitment to be able to schedule it immediately, because we need to give now an answer that must put into place all the actions. We must create a framework for prevention both at national level and at the level of the territories, because Minister Carrozza told us yesterday that he had important resources from his Ministry in order to be able to intervene in schools for educational projects, but that is not enough. It is not just the school path that is enough, because, among other things, today's school is a school that keeps children in greatest difficulty away more and more: we know how much school leaving counts and we know that these are the most fragile subjects. There really must be a commitment from the outset so that the Government, but also Parliament, can give concrete answers. I am sorry that this House is not careful, but when a 14-year-old girl is the ninth child who is killed by violence on the Net, look, colleagues, who refers to all of us: we cannot think that someone else is to blame. It is this distraction of the adult world, and also of a part of the political class, which must instead be shaken so that all are called to responsibility. We cannot wait tomorrow, but we need to intervene today. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u135	Senator Mattesini, I will make this point to the Presidency and to the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u138	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to one issue which is the subject of various parliamentary acts. I refer to the future of Retitalia Internazionale SpA, a company in house of the ICE, whose fate, in my opinion, seems entrusted to an exaggerated administrative discretion, well distant from what is laid down by law and equally distant from the commitments assumed by the Government on this subject, to the protection of 65 workers that with the disposal of this company would be automatically put at the door. We know that the spending review had foreseen the alienation of some companies of this type, provided they were not strategic. Despite the fact that Retitalia was objectively strategic (and this demonstrates the management by this of two important projects on the internationalization front), the ICE wanted to sell it out. [[Brusio from the benches of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u139	Please, I ask the senators of the 5 Star Movement to lower the tone of their voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u140	DI BIAGIO (PI). I would also like to remind you that the 2014 Stability Act repealed the provision for alienation of in-house companies. Therefore, it would have been at least appropriate to revise, together with the company's RSU, an alternative plan also to avoid falling into the vice of legitimacy. But the ICE continues undisturbed on its way to the disposal of the company. In January 2014, only two offers are presented by two companies from the past that are somewhat questionable and smoky. Let's talk about the Gepin P.A. Spa and Techshare srl. The alienation of the alleged new buyer with the request for release is a real sale and not a change of ownership and, as such, it would be necessary to initiate completely different procedures in order to guarantee the levels of employment. There has been so much talk about Gepin and there have been no lack of parliamentary acts to ask the Government for clarification about the questionable corporate interweavings operated by this and the lack of safeguard of jobs. The Techshare, on the other hand, seems to be an empty box within the Syntecnica consortium, containing within it a series of as many apparently empty boxes. Some of the companies in the Syntecnica group belong to other groups and consortia, some of which are in crisis. We are talking about a series of matriosques that cannot predict solidity for the maintenance of employment levels. It goes without saying that entrusting a contract to only one of these companies would justify mass dismissal, also considering the unbrilliant past of the first and somewhat doubtful of the second and the downward contract for which they submitted offers. I therefore call on the MISE to listen to Parliament's repeated invitation to suspend the alienation procedure and possibly address this issue in a technical-political table. I believe that the short-term discussion of the Destinazione Italia bill could provide an excellent opportunity for comparison.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u143	Montevecchi (M5S). The Gallery of entrance of the Academy of Fine Arts of Bologna has for centuries been endowed with a collection of rare plaster statues and reliefs, inspired by the great masterpieces of the past: a precious collection, because unique in the world. Moreover, the Gallery, known as the Gallery of the plasters, had a perspective - it would, and hopefully will - so amazing that it was immortalized by many artists. A few days ago magically appeared in the Gallery a structure destined to accommodate the concierge of the Academy. Listen carefully: the structure is positioned against one of the walls in front of the friezes, which encloses, and some of which are visually cut by brushes that intersect its features. I invite you to look at the photos on the Web: a horror, all the more so if you consider that we are inside a place that is par excellence in the promotion of the arts. It would now be interesting to understand whether this unholy operation has been authorized by the newly magnificent president of the Academy's Board of Directors and the associate director or whether they are both unaware of the diabolical plan. In both cases one fact is certain: what has happened is very serious. All this reminds us of a passage from the essay by Bruno Zanardi, published in the Bolognese magazine "il Mulino" in February 2012, in which he writes: "Many have said that Totò's greatness lies in immortalizing all the tics and fragility of Italian behaviors, structural behaviours such as to be unfortunately still part of our civil life, so that we can legitimately ask if Italy is still today a country full of principles, but with a moustache, like Totò in "Miseria e nobiltà" (Miseria and Nobility); that is to say, to ask whether Italy, to date, is a country with a leading class in many cases intended to perform its function more in form than in substance, more by role than by competence, that is by means of a moustache. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u146	ORRU' (PD). I want to intervene on a matter that concerns my region in this specific case, but that has repercussions in general on all those companies and branches of company, whose property has been confiscated and transferred to the Agency of seized property and whose workers find themselves fighting for their rights, often without knowing what their future will be. I refer, in this case, to the case of group 6 GDO srl: the group, based in Castelvetrano, has been in controlled administration since 2008 and operates in the context of large distributions, managing directly and indirectly the administration, affiliation and conduct of supermarkets and discount in the province of Trapani, Agrigento and in part of Palermo. The group employs hundreds of workers who, as a result of the confiscation order, find extraordinary earnings in the Cassa Integrazione and risk losing their jobs, if the dispute over the future of the company will not be concluded in a very short time. My speech is aimed, in addition to the attention of the House and the Presidency on this issue, at anticipating that I am presenting a question in which I ask the Minister of the Interior to pay particular attention to the workers working in the confiscated companies and who clearly have nothing to do with the malicious property of the confiscated companies. In this particular case I ask what urgent actions the Government intends to put in place to protect the workers of the 6 GDO who risk losing their jobs with the arrival of the terms of law, fixed at the end of March, when the company goes into liquidation. Madam President, we cannot pass on the message, in our region, that with the Mafia there is work and work and with legality companies close.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u149	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, I would like to urge the Presidency to address the Government, in particular the Presidency of the Council and the Minister for Economic Development, in order to put the FIAT dispute with Termini Imerese at the centre of their attention. It is a national dispute, which deserves the greatest and direct commitment of the Presidency of the Council and the Minister for Economic Development. It is a dispute that calls into play a territory qualified in the production of cars: a territory where there are FIAT workers prepared, serious and productive, and where there insists an induced, also qualified, with workers equally prepared and productive. That is why, Mr President, this must be dealt with at national level. The Presidency of the Council must have its own strategy, also because the FIAT affair concerns the whole country. In these years FIAT has made resounding mistakes. Now he's at a turning point. In a few weeks or months, you will have to present a new industrial plan. Then the national government must do the government of our country, as happens in mature and advanced countries. There was no country, even those with a strong liberal tradition in the economy, like the United States, with President Obama in mind, where an active management of industrial policies has not developed, with direct incentives from the state, with strategies guided by the leadership of that country. And the same must happen in our country. Performing a merely notary and descriptive function of the crisis is not good. Instead, there is a need for proactive action on the part of the government. It is necessary that Palazzo Chigi has some ideas and these are made to stand up interloque with FIAT. President. - I have presented the 2-00119 question which goes in that direction. In conclusion, therefore, there are two choices to be made. The first is to give an immediate answer to this questioning. The second is to ask the Government to come to the Chamber and commit the Assembly to a reflection on industrial policy in the automotive sector. Madam President, tomorrow in Termini Imerese there will be a great territorial, choral and social initiative with trade unions, productive forces, the social world and the world of ecclesial commitment. Since Friday there will be a meeting between the Ministry of Economic Development, a representative of Palazzo Chigi, the trade union organizations, the Region, the mayor and the municipalities of the territory, it is good that from now on there is an impulse from the Senate so that tomorrow we will change step and start really in our country to come out an industrial policy worthy of an advanced country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u150	We will certainly support and be a fundamental part of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u153	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I want to bring to the attention of this House a situation that is spreading on the territory with worrying seriousness, all too often underestimated. The mayors, our administrators are losing total confidence in the state and also in the institutions they represent, until they arrive - as in the case of the mayor of Pandino or the mayor of Viggiù, Sandy Cane - to declare their unwillingness to reappear for a second term. A real paradox. In a few days' time, if the government holds up or in any case in some time, we could talk in this House, with the Delrio proposal, even to provide the third mandate for the mayors. This is a paradox: it means not knowing the reality of the facts, if you think of proposing a third mandate because you find it difficult to find the administrators, with the administrators in the field who resign and do not want to do even the second. This is because politics has turned away from those who manage. Those who manage have to deal daily with the problems of the people; instead politics seems more and more screwed on itself, far from reality. Mine is an appeal to return to talk to the territory, becoming aware that if you lose this kind of affection that citizens have towards administrations it means that in this country the very roots of democracy are compromised. It is necessary for the Government to be aware of this, because such a paradoxical proposal, such as that of the third mandate, when - I repeat - the mayors do not want to do the second, shows that perhaps we are thinking about levels of attention that are not those that people and our administrators have in the municipalities. Instead, we must make them feel that the Government and the country are close to each other and that Parliament is working to ease the problems, such as the Stability Pact and the difficulty of sustaining the social burden; as when a municipality finds itself involved in problems related to children, from which it cannot escape, with the impossibility, at the same time, of respecting the Stability Pact: all paradoxes that lead our administrators to disengage on the ground. We have to stop it. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-02-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-189.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.30 a.m.
