ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 29 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u4	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u7	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as many Members of this House can see, they are standing far from their place, so I would ask you to give me the courtesy of rehearsing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is no counter-test, there is a time that snaps automatically after which it is the system that interrupts the verification of the support. The time has passed and there was no number of senators needed to request verification of the quorum. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am asking you for a counter-proof of the vote on the Minutes by show of hands. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, on that I have already declared the approval of the minutes. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, but I say to you: it seems to have returned to 15 months ago. If we start again here with the games and subterfuges of three and five seconds... [[Comments of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u8	Colleagues: No one plays games and subterfuge here.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). I give you my full support, Mr President, to you and to all your colleagues, but let us stick to mutual respect, because I pressed the voting mechanism and it had not been two seconds since it was already blocked. So do as it is in your powers and possibilities, but I am telling you: I am not making a fool of myself, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u12	The next item is the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator or Senator will write on his card a single name. He or she who obtains the highest number of votes will be elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call has been made, the urn will remain open until 12 noon, while the Assembly will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I therefore declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal. Barani, secretary, makes the appeal. (The voting operations followed). (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 10:03 a.m. - at 10:22 a.m.) I declare closed the vote of the senators present at this time in this House. I warn the Senators who have not yet voted that they will be able to do so until 12 noon, passing under the Presidency and communicating their name to the Secretary Senators. (The urn remains open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1465. The speakers, Senator D'Alì and Senator Guerra, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Guerra.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u14	Mr President, since the decree we are talking about is very broad and full of various speeches, I shall confine myself to some aspects which I consider essential, but not before I have highlighted the very fruitful work that has been carried out collectively in the Commission, with the contribution of all the components. One of the crucial aspects of this decree certainly concerns tax measures, which already give an important connotation to its title, which highlights the aspects of competitiveness and social justice. The most known and relevant measure is certainly represented by the introduction of the bonus of 80 euros, which was born as a result of a first reduction in the tax wedge and is therefore aimed at dependent labour, but compared to it there is the commitment - which the decree emphasizes - to arrive as soon as possible at a structural reform, which will obviously be wider. The debate on the tax wedge - and, in particular, on this intervention of the EUR 80 - was an opportunity for reflection within the Commission on the equitative aspects of the measure, especially as regards those relating to workers, employees and not only, with family burdens (but this will be discussed by the rapporteur, Mr D'Alì). The second important aspect, with regard to fiscal intervention, is to promote productive activity by means of a proportional intervention to reduce the burden on it, which has emerged in a reduction in the rates of IRAP, which, as you know, are more than one, since they are articulated in relation to the nature of the taxable person. It is interesting that a large part of the compensation, therefore of the financing of this type of intervention, takes place with a redistributive meaning always within the tax system, i.e. by intervening in particular on financial incomes. This is a significant intervention. It is sometimes said that the fact of having increased the rate also on the deposits and the current accounts may have affected the benefit that comes to the poorest people from the intervention of the bonus, but this does not answer to truth: the calculations made by one of the most renowned institutions of our country, that is Prometeia, through a model of microsimulation show how the families in which at least one member receives the bonus will have an increase that goes from 8 to the maximum 37 euros, therefore much less than the value of the bonus, that altogether is pairs to 640 euros. This increase therefore affects an average of 2.4 percent of the bonus. I also remember that Italy is a country in which financial wealth is strongly concentrated, which means that its distribution is very uneven and, therefore, fundamentally concentrated in the hands of the richest subjects. Let me remind you, for example, that as far as shares are concerned the percentage of ownership while it is 14.7% when we look at 20% richer than the population, is instead only 0.1% for the first 20 percent. Thus an intervention to increase this type of taxation, which shifts the burden from labour and productive activities to financial incomes, has in itself a significant redistributive value. It is important to remember, however, that some particularly important treatments are saved in our country. These include, in particular, pension funds, on which, compared with a levy ranging from 20% to 26% for the vast majority of other financial income (excluding government bonds), the levy is slightly raised to 11.5 per cent, also in order to avoid an increase in taxation on professional social security funds which, at present, have a particularly penalising tax regime. There is therefore a commitment to make structural action to improve the harmonisation of income taxation as a result of social security savings. Another very important segment of intervention contained in the Decree-Law in question concerns measures to dispose of local authorities' debts to businesses: this aspect, which has engaged Parliament and the last governments on several occasions. The decree-law now under consideration devotes around 10 billion euros to this purpose through innovative tools. In particular (and this is an important aspect), in order to facilitate the transfer of public administration credits, the use is made of a strengthening of certification and therefore a solicitation of new certifications, but above all it favours the transfer of these debts through recognition, assistance of guarantee by the State, in turn made possible through a special financing. The debate in the Commission also highlighted the importance of this issue and extended the scope of all those who may cease these debts. Of course, it is not only a question of providing for a guarantee system, but also of developing (there are significant interventions involving the Deposit and Loan Fund) ways in which, in the face of a liquidity problem for debtors, the redefinition of the timing and the same method of payment is envisaged. We do not just intervene on the debts of the public administration but also support the financing aimed at the disposal of the debts of the participants through a financing of the debts that local authorities have towards the participants who, in turn, will have to allocate the payment to finally liquidate certain debts towards the companies. Another important point I would like to mention is that, always from a redistributive point of view, there are many people who have to contribute to the financing of these huge operations: they are addressed to the participants, to the constitutional bodies, in part also to the RAI, to the high incomes of the public administration and so on. The last theme I would like to mention is that of spending review. This decree certainly addresses this issue in very broad terms. We are in a context in which decentralised bodies are asked for a new contribution in terms of careful review and reduction of their spending. This reduction is distributed between the different levels of government and concerns both central administrations, and in particular ministries, as well as regions and local authorities (Comuni and Provinces). The Commission's work on this issue has been very careful. In particular, it is supported what was originally proposed by the decree-law, that is the fact of putting as much as possible the intervention of spending review, creating where still do not exist or, better, bringing to regime the system of the so-called aggregate players and the structure of the reference prices. Therefore, as the data is collected and the network of aggregate subjects is formed, we will be able to have more and more references on the purchases of goods and services by all public entities. Therefore, on the one hand, these players will have the opportunity to access the acquisition of goods and services at the best prices that can be obtained in a competitive market and, on the other, we can be sure that there is no waste in these transactions: the two things obviously hold together. It is, however, a complex intervention, which begins to put in place previous interventions as well, but I stress that the intervention of spending review is not able to immediately give a very strong result in terms of revenue, precisely because it has to be carried out rationally. Through the decree under consideration and through the amendments made to the Commission, it has been sought to equip the agencies with intervention tools to achieve the objective of reducing expenditure, which is however an unavoidable fact to allow the operation as a whole to function. The instruments made available give decentralised bodies a possibility of recontracting existing contracts, when it is understood that this can be done through greater efficiency and a reduction of unnecessary costs; then there is further intervention on cars and on consultancy expenses. At the same time, state-owned companies are required to intervene through a reduction in production costs. In the knowledge that we act with instruments that are still to be refined, in order to avoid using rigid tools in their application and not interpretable in the sense that I have just set out (i.e. to give opportunities and to indicate directions through which the overall savings can be achieved), the Commission has taken care to better develop what was in any case already the spirit of the original decree-law, trying to introduce elements of flexibility. I would point out that the intervention has not been watered down in any way, because the total constraint of the contribution required of each of the listed subjects remains inescapable, but attempts have been made to allow alternative ways of preventing too rigid interventions from having undesirable effects. In fact, we know that the spending review, even when it hits the waste, is not painless, since even the waste is perhaps translated into higher prices or higher salaries that however have their economic relapse: we know that. However, it is right and necessary to move towards a more rational use of public resources. This cannot always be achieved by means of instruments defined a priori, which are adapted to each situation. For example, the recontracting of supplies - one of the elements that created alarm, because in some cases it could compromise the quality of the service - has become a faculty (instead of an obligation) that can be used selectively, that is, only for some sectors and not for others, without us defining exclusions a priori. In fact, this would have been wrong, because waste and inefficiencies are never only in one sector and not in another. It was intended, therefore, to leave a flexible possibility of application to the entities responsible for it. I would like to point out that the text nevertheless refers to what is a common sensitivity, because we are not only looking at what happens to the entities they buy, but also at the entities to which the contracts are directed. It is the reference to what is already found in the single text on contracts, that is, the incompressibility of the cost of labour: we do not want the operation to be solved merely in a savings obtained by compromising the working conditions of the people who work with the companies and the enterprises that, in turn, work for the public administration. The themes are many others, but I stop here, leaving room for my colleague D'Alì for further details. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u15	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u16	Mr President, this measure is the first of a series of related measures which initiates a period of review of tax structures, public expenditure and therefore of the overall review of the country's economic balance (understood as both citizens and families as well as institutions) in a project that must surely still have other points of examination. I say this because, unfortunately, we have been accustomed to parliamentary practice in recent years to interpret every measure as the container of everything we want or can. I hope it is a habit that this legislature will gradually abandon and that, on the other hand, it can have an opportunity to extrinsicize itself in an overall strategic vision resulting from the examination and adoption of more measures. I consider this measure, and I would like it to be considered as a first and immediate intervention, necessary to deal with certain emergencies and preparatory to a better overall settlement, both in the tax field and in the matter of institutional expenditure and in the public sector. In fact, this measure is divided into four titles, all of which are extremely significant and important. The first title, which is dedicated to tax reductions and tax rules, has already been well metabolised by the public with the term tax bonuses. And this is, in fact, in its consistency. But the debate that took place in the Commission and the results of this debate, which is also included in Article 1, have paved the way for an absolutely precise extension of this tax bonus to single-income families and those with more dependent children. This measure serves to respect the term, not only nominal, of this decree (which speaks of social justice), but also to respect the objective, that this measure and other measures are set, that is, the overall strategic objective of the Government. The reference to the law of stability allows a better elaboration of the provision of extension of the bonus to the families and, in my opinion, will also allow a better endowment in support of this measure. Therefore, I am sure that from 1 January 2015 this completion of the operation to reduce the tax on low incomes and single-income families and with more dependent children will complete a picture of reduction of the tax wedge absolutely important to determine a revival of the balance of the family budgets, a revival of consumption on the internal front and, as has been said several times, both in this place and in the technical commentaries to the fiscal measures, an overall relaunch of the economy through an improvement also of the production. Some adjustments have also been introduced to the intervention on the increase in the taxation of financial pensions; in particular, a tax credit has been introduced for the coffers which, for the time being, provide for the pensions of professionals: this in order to cushion the impact on this sector of an increase that is nothing more than an alignment of taxation on financial pensions with European standards. As we all know, before this measure, Italy had a lower rate than the European average. Title II, which deals with the savings and efficiency of public expenditure, intervenes on almost the entire sector of Italian public institutions and companies, in order to quota its expenditures and obtain expenditure savings dedicated to intervention for the greater share on the tax wedge and, therefore, on the reduction of the tax pressure. It is clear that we cannot think about public spending savings by not looking at reforms as well. In my opinion, in fact, the point of a real rationalization and efficiency, and therefore of a reduction in public expenditure, moves in this country from constitutional reforms and, downstream, from the implementing rules, since we no longer have the possibility to press on the saving especially of the local authorities if we do not put these same in the conditions to rationalize their structures and organic, but I would like to say their presence in the territory. Personally, I have repeatedly indicated - and I think I can do so also in the course of the debate on reforms - how the real way to reduce public spending in our country is through a revisiting of public spending centres and, therefore, of the planning of government of the territory, as well as through a simplification, not only numerical but also stratigraphic, of the same levels of government. Citizens, among other things, are anxious to have fewer references and a strong simplification in their compliance. This was also the concern of the measure under consideration in the course of its discussion, intervening on some adjustments of the TASI (but we will be able to talk about this later). Returning to the rationalization of public expenditure on goods and services, I believe that transitional elements have also been introduced in this title. Some have said that these are rather crude interventions, but they are the crude ones that produce the desired effects. As my colleague, Mrs Guerra, has just said, the Commission has also introduced elements of flexibility in achieving the objectives of reducing expenditure, meaning not to escape expenditure reductions, but to make the management bodies of many companies and public bodies more responsible and also to encourage their activity in finding alternative ways to reducing costs. When the companies that the same manage are virtuous, and therefore able to produce an increase of the invoiced and the profits, in fact they have the possibility to justify in a better way their presence and activity through alternative forms of savings. However, the objective that the law imposes on it - in my view correctly - to contribute to the reduction of public expenditure through their activities remains firm. Title III of the measure is devoted to the payment of debts of public administrations. This is the continuation of an intervention that has been initiated for two years already, with Decree-Law No 35, and I believe it is an absolutely useful intervention because, as we proceed in this difficult work - perhaps for the administrations - of paying the debts of the public administration, we realize that many mechanisms must be adapted and many objectives must be further expanded. In fact, the rules set out in Title III of the Decree-Law serve not only to improve the techniques of access by public administrations to the payment of their debts to companies, but also to encourage the payment of the municipalities towards their associates and others: this will allow the further extension of the payment ceiling to companies and - we hope - the completion of a further step towards the extinction of the backward and then towards alignment, in the ordinary terms of payment, with the European directives that - as we know - set absolutely appropriate deadlines for a normal economy. Therefore, we would also like in our country, albeit with some difficulty, denounced also by the need to adapt the current mechanisms, to be quickly aligned with these regulations. Strong incentives have been introduced with regard to the institutions' access to payments to businesses, also because from these payments (it is absolutely correct to say) it also results, through the tax input and the expected increase in GDP as a whole, a part of the success, from the point of view of budgetary balances, of this measure. An adjustment in the dynamics of TASI payments was also introduced during the debate in the Commission. Many issues have been addressed, such as the issue of stronger and more incisive action to help families, for which reference has been made to the Stability Act, but I could also mention the proposal, strongly shared by the Commission as a whole, for the extension of the IRAP tax exemption base, which saw the approval of an agenda in the Commission which provides for an overall review of the IRAP subject, to ensure that small and very small businesses, professionals and many VAT consignments which have a reduced turnover can be completely exempted from the IRAP. This debate has further convinced us of the need for the various measures in the pipeline, both from a governmental and parliamentary point of view, to pursue a common strategy to reduce the tax burden and to improve its balance on the various sectors of the economy. In fact, for some issues, as in the matter of IRAP, with the postponement to the legislative decrees that are about to be issued by the Government on the basis of the fiscal delegation that Parliament has conferred on the Government, it has certainly found itself a more appropriate place of definition, always, I repeat, in the overall perspective that must preside over the joint action of the measures to examine the Parliament and of governmental initiative. Therefore, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Guerra, who has supported an important load of analysis and I would like to say that it is crucial to reconcile the many requests for amendment with the overall thrust of the text. Of course, I thank Deputy Minister Morando for his timely assistance and advice to the Commissions in their work, as well as I thank the two Presidents and all the members of the Commissions. I believe that in the end the work was carried out correctly, punctually and fruitfully. It may be that someone is not completely convinced that this is an improvement in the text, but this is part of the game of politics; and I also call common sense: very often, in fact, as the proverb says, the good is certainly preferable to the excellent. I therefore believe that, in conclusion, the resulting measure can be considered, if not exhaustive of the issues, as the first piece, I repeat, of an overall strategy that must also find in constitutional reforms its outlet, or rather, rather than an outlet, must find in constitutional reforms a strong point of departure, especially as regards the reduction of public expenditure in our country. I also believe that this is a measure for which it is worth urging this House because it has quickly approved all its contents and therefore defines it in a complete way in order to transfer it to the other branch of Parliament in time for final approval. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u19	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I appeal to the Presidency to understand what is happening in these buildings. In fact, while we are working in this House, there are colleagues who send Mafia convicted, for the umpteenth time, into these buildings. We want to understand if it is a legitimate procedure, if it is ordinary practice; what the former governor Lombardo has come to do here, sentenced to six years for mafia; why he wanders in these palaces; if we must continue with this filth. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We'd like to know who let him in and why. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u21	Why, Senator Bottici? BOTTICS (M5S). To answer Senator Giarrusso as Senator Commissioner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, this is an issue to be discussed in the Presidency Council. Of course, we will bring him back here and let the President know. BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I welcome Senator Giarrusso's request to question this fact, because it has already happened that we discovered from news sources the entry of certain subjects into the palaces. I ask that at least this be recorded and that it not happen as for others who seem to have entered without this being found in our records. I therefore call on the parliamentary assistants, when the senators bring in any foreigner, to take note of the time of entry and the time of exit, because this is laid down in our Rules of Procedure regarding access. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bottici, I believe that in his role as senator He has a privileged position in order to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u24	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I know that on the 10th day here will be remembered the 90th anniversary of the death of Giacomo Matteotti, killed by special laws. I do not believe that the Italian Constitution is a legacy of those special laws: the Constitution says you are innocent to the third degree of judgment, and those who sit in this House must stick to the Constitution, otherwise they go to do something else. Go be a scumbag! It is not possible in this House to feel such a besmirching of justice! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Scream like the fascists did in Matteotti's time! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, moderate your terms. Barani (GAL). Scream! Scream! [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u27	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to raise another subject, which is always very important. Because you will put the question of trust in this decree, why don't we skip the general discussion? Let us avoid these unnecessary strangleholds of democracy, so on this decree you have already decided to put trust. Would you agree with me, Mr. President? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Sibilia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u28	Senator Airola, there is always the possibility of self-attachment and automatically the general discussion does not take place. It is, however, up to the individual senator's initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Mr Guerra and Mr D'Alì, for their work just now. I have to acknowledge Senator D'Ali of intellectual honesty, because several times in his speech he repeated that the decree in question is only one of the measures and that therefore there will have to be others, implicitly recognizing all the limits of this measure, which is titled " Urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice." There is no doubt that giving 80 euros to those who have a low income is a socially right fact. It is a little less fair - indeed, in my opinion it is deeply unfair - that some workers should be chosen from those who have a certain income and that others should be excluded. To be clear: why is it for employees and not for self-employed and pensioners? This creates a discrimination - I do not want to use high terms referring to the Italian Constitution - which is certainly not logical, also because the coverages to this provision are represented in part by spending review and, in part, by taxes and excise duties (some complex, others simpler) that risk even being increased if some savings deriving from the spending review will not be operational. So it happens that a self-employed person or a pensioner, with an income of 15,000 euros, from the moment this decree-law is approved is penalized compared to the past, because not only does he not take the 80 euros but he pays the increases of excise and tax related to the measure. Therefore, I repeat, this is not a measure of social justice, but a bill that is fair to some and profoundly unfair to others. Then there are abnormal situations. For example, the tax on bank deposits, postal current accounts and so on represents a mirror for the lark: in fact, the financial speculators will choose other markets if the Italian one is not profitable, while the small saver, who does not have the possibility to choose, will be penalized; he will see increased the tax burden to his detriment, and this is not good. In addition, there is a fact: this measure concerns 2014, and it could only be so because you could not find cover for a law under regime. But the nature of this measure means that probably many of the beneficiaries, that is to say those who will get 80 euros, will be perplexed in spending this money: therefore, what is believed to be possible to acquire, that is, an increase in consumption, we do not know how much will be realized; probably less than expectations will be realized, because many of those who will benefit from this measure will think well, not being provisions under regime, to be cautious: maybe they will increase their savings, pay some debt, but they will not make consumption. This is a prediction that many economists make: the subject is debated, but there is no doubt that the question lies in these terms. Businesses have been given too little, which means that even with the measure under consideration, the trend towards rising unemployment will not be reversed. We've come to dramatic figures. It is certainly not the Renzi Government's fault that unemployment has risen again, but there is no doubt that both youth and general unemployment have increased in the first quarter of this year. The unemployment figure is very, very much above the European average: yet, in 2011 we were below the European average, with an unemployment rate of less than 9%. For the umpteenth time in a measure we talk about the debts of the public administration. But, ladies and gentlemen, here the feeling is that Parliament is speaking, but what we decide is of no use: it is true that companies still fail, because they have claims towards the public administration. Senators, we have to legislate, but the government needs to develop the machine, because if we deliberate things that are not realized then it is as if we had mocked people for the umpteenth time. [[Applause from Senator Molinari]] Regarding the taxation on the house, last Friday the Governor of the Bank of Italy was very clear: the TASI will lead to an increase in the taxation on the house, compared to 2012. Let's not talk about the comparison with 2013, when taxes were reduced through the measures that Forza Italia - then People of Freedom - demanded by the Letta Government. This is a situation which, for those who are part of the center-right, is absolutely unacceptable, because an electoral flag of the people of center-right is - and must remain - the one for which the taxes on the house have no reason to be in a country like ours, in which the small property is so widespread. In addition, you still don't know how you will have to pay TASI: you don't understand exactly how much you will have to pay and when you will have to pay for it. On this subject we are still at the ballet of referrals. Gentlemen senators, the existing disorder in the matter of house taxes creates a situation of discomfort both for the rental market and for the real estate market. We know that construction remains one of the driving sectors of the economy: because of this schizophrenia in the measures, the crisis will not end so soon, and this will be a major problem. 11:27 a.m. (Follow Carraro). I shall end by quoting a subject that has greatly enthused people, although it is certainly not very important from an economic point of view, namely the cut of EUR 150 million planned for RAI. There was a great debate, we wondered whether it was right or not and whether the RAI should be restructured. In this regard, I would like to point out a fact to Parliament, which will have to decide next year on the service contract, and to the Ministry of Economy, which is the shareholder of the RAI. Next week, ladies and gentlemen, the football world championships will begin: the German, French, Spanish and English citizens - I am talking about the countries we like in Europe - will see free, if they wish, all the matches through the public service. Instead, in Italy, Italian citizens will see only the most important games through RAI, because global television rights have been bought for Italy by a private television, Sky, which has four and a half million subscribers (not all subscribers even to football, therefore they will be less than four and a half million); citizens who do not have the opportunity to subscribe will not be able to see all the matches, which, instead, happens in all the European countries with which we compare. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). I'm done, ma'am. What is the point of having a public service, paying a fee and not having what other European citizens have? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Castaldi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u30	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 66, which contains urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice, is a measure which, albeit partially, from its title and then, in its content, addresses an important issue of social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we have often been talking about nobles and high bills, about realities (the most disparate ones) that could have improved thanks to our contribution as legislators, and all too often we have given up on the evidence that, despite having had good ideas, these were not feasible because of a chronic lack of funds. This decree-law is important, of course, for the rules it contains, but even more so because it disrupts some ways that over time have become an unmodifiable rule. It is proof that, although it is true that we are subject to budgetary constraints, although it is true that the funds must be found without unbalanced state balance and respecting European constraints, the decisions of how and where to cut and how and where to increase spending are political decisions. It is proof that politics and representation in institutions can and must change what has determined and determines the social and economic crisis of our country, including the crisis of trust. Dear colleagues, politics is not that rotten and useless thing, as some, too many, even in this House, argue; politics is not to obstruct, raise cartels, chain up, scream, inveire: politics is to make choices that improve the conditions and opportunities of citizens and businesses and thus contribute, effectively, to the relaunch of the role of our country in the world. Politics is also making difficult, ambitious choices on which to put face, as the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government have done with this measure, as we do, which, as a majority party, we support and encourage the Government to put in place incisive and reformative actions. With the decree in conversion you choose to cut the Ministries and reorganize them; there is a wage limit in the annual all-inclusive economic treatment for public employees and for the staff of the participating companies (Article 13); there is also a limit on expenditure on consultancy, studies and research assignments and on co-ordinated and continuous collaboration contracts provided or concluded by the public authorities (Article 14); expenditure on participating companies is reduced. These are choices that, although they are not of great financial impact, are highly symbolic, they mark the proximity of the State, the institutions and politics to the citizens. It shows a path to be pursued and to be pursued with determination in the fight against waste and privileges. With this decree-law, service cars are reduced, and the preferential postal tariff regimes for candidates for elections are abolished, the costs of the Provinces and metropolitan cities are reduced. These choices have allowed money to be put back in workers' pockets, as has been said, 80 euros per month for incomes from 8,000 to 24,000 euros per year. This credit will not only be paid to employees and similar workers, such as workers with project contracts or continuous collaboration, but also to workers receiving income-supporting amounts, such as the earnings fund, the mobility allowance and unemployment benefit. It is finally a measure of equity and social justice, because for the first time in a long time it places workers and labour at the centre of interest and social policy and is returned to those from whom it had only taken up so far. The cost of labour is reduced, because the priority problem is and remains the work and the dignity and freedom that derive from it. We have not yet been able to change too strict and restrictive European rules, but it is the latest hours that we will have more time to achieve a balanced budget, and with this decree, investment in school buildings is removed from the constraints of the Stability Pact. We are shocked when we read in the newspapers that a large part of our children and young people live together today in environments with asbestos and without Internet connection, but after being scandalized we have to know that in recent years investments in school construction have been blocked, thanks to that bad standard (which still remains in part and that we will have to be able to change) according to which investment expenditure is subject to the same restrictions as current expenditure. With this measure we take an important first step, but we still have a great deal to do. The problem of unemployment and the difficulty of the many people earning less than EUR 8,000 per year, who will not be affected by this measure, remain open and without immediate solution. But this is the first in a series of changes aimed at breaking down position rents, making the social state more efficient and proactive for those who need it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u32	Conclude, Senator Cantini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u33	CANTINI (PD). I'm finishing, ma'am. Changes aimed at revolutionizing public administration, so that it is no longer an obstacle for citizens and businesses but an instrument of support and growth, making the structure of the state adherent to the needs of society that calls for change loudly. These are demands that come from our communities that we represent here and our task, our role, the role of good politics is to intercept these needs and make them reality, and this we have begun to do. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u35	Madam President, we are also here today to run a 60-day relay with 51 obstacles, the 51 articles of the in-conversion measure. We are here again to discuss a decree known as the IRPEF decree, which actually speaks of competitiveness and social justice for citizens and for this country, not of development. As it was in February for local finance and in March for the housing emergency, Expo 2015 and the Bank of Italy, it is a decree that must be converted quickly, because now the promises have been made: the 80 euros have been paid out, so you can't back down, you have to move on. It doesn't matter to whom; it doesn't matter with what resources, which are removed from one side and put on the other: it doesn't matter. This seems to be the concept that prevails on the part of this Government: it doesn't matter. I don't know, really, how bravely! However, these extraordinary necessities and urgencys linked to the enactment of provisions of government initiative hide, as I said, real acts of force of the Government towards the Chambers: the umpteenth confidence will be put: the will of one on all will be imposed. We're on the same page; nothing changes. Then why do you let us work in the Commissions? Why do you allow us to spend so much time discussing the amendments and the decree? Why do you make nights and work day after day on the same thing if you then impose your will? How much money do you still want to waste if you finally have to impose your will anyway? Is it worth it? Could the money spent on the days when the decree was examined in the budget and finance committees not be devoted to citizenship income, to the support of small entrepreneurs, pensioners and incompetents? No, it would be too simple: instead you have to waste time here working and actually not concluding anything. But I come back to the point, because this is obviously not an audience: people in this House do not want to hear it, even if that is what people are constantly saying outside. The tip decree promised 80 euros just behind the European elections: but look at it; it was needed at that very moment. Clearly, there is always the division of loaves and fish between the mafia and the state: I promise the 80 euros, you promise something else. We are there; always the usual story. Fortunately, the 5 Star Movement is exempt from all these negotiations. And this I cry with force! One of the many articles provides for the payment of the IMU on agricultural land. First we talked about the fact that the decree abolishes the use of machines for the Ministries; in reality, that is not the important thing, not the only one: the important thing is that we must avoid charging such high taxes. The semantics of the text of the decree should be analyzed, because it speaks of collective equity, but it highlights inequality; it speaks of social justice, but it does not achieve equal treatment and conditions. For example, in Article 1 of the law under consideration, it is learned that the famous 80 euro bonus will only be paid to employees and treated as employees with a gross income of between 8,145 and 24,000 euros. So? Who's helping? Someone who already has food. We don't care who doesn't have food, who fights day by day, who doesn't get to the second or third week of the month? Aid is therefore unequal. There is no need for a legal end to understand that this provision is in stark contrast to the most basic principles of our fundamental Charter. It's not necessary. People have understood it well. There's no point in them telling us that we're here with cartels or anything. Nobody shuts our mouths to us, because as long as we have a voice, we will continue to bring in the voice of all people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u36	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the measures we are introducing today with Decree-Law No 66 which we will shortly be converting into law are the most important act of economic policy adopted in recent years. With the measure in question, economic policy - or rather, using a term dear to the Minister of Economy, the policy - has regained that central role in the life of the country that for too long had lost. The IRPEF decree, as called by the press, put an end to the silent but dangerous tendency, for too many years in place, to consider economic policy as a useless tool to restart the engines of the economy, to reactivate that spirit that pushes men to undertake an economic initiative. It has been believed for too long, leaving the country to itself, that measures of stimulus and incentive, even the creation of a climate of positive confidence, were not necessary to get out of the serious economic crisis in place, believing that there, in some corner, hidden behind - or rather above - all of us, ready to operate, an invisible hand that alone, without the need for economic policy measures, would restart economic growth and, with it, the contraction of high unemployment. Political change is not only in the new centrality which we have recognized as indispensable measures of economic policy, as an essential part of our economy, but also in another aspect, which inexorably emerges from the 50 articles that make up the text under consideration. Today, unlike a distant past, we do not put in place a measure that is based on public donations, holes of an increase in unproductive public spending, and the intervention implemented is not inspired by a paternalism lacking in perspective and disrespect for individual freedom and abilities. Instead, it is an approach of true economic reformism, in which the disposable income of the lower income groups is increased, not through the creation of a greater public debt, but by cutting unproductive public spending and recovering the lost resources in the swamp of tax evasion. Increasing the annual disposable income of an employee of 640 euros will have the effect of stimulating consumption and, by this way, asphyxiating domestic demand. Alongside this shared and desired economic effect, increasing the disposable income of a sum equal to a monthly amount, if compared to the period of existence of the measure, has an even more important effect, as it reduces that wide scissors present in our society that is called inequality and that consists in the distance between those who are in the high income group and those in the lowest of the system in our country. Well, reducing inequality, without mortifying the efforts of the most deserving, means increasing the opportunities of a large number of people or the margins of freedom of those who today, by virtue of economic conditions, see narrowing the field of their individual choices. The measure looks not only at people and families, but also at businesses, to which we must applaud for the courage with which they have faced a devastating crisis, since, with their ability to be on the world markets, they have kept our production system alive. The 10% reduction in the IRAP rate goes in the direction of easing the tax burden on the production system, making the employment of the workforce more convenient, all financed through an increase in the taxation of financial incomes. Not only that: companies will see reduced waiting times to collect their claims on public administration, increasing the level of liquidity of the entire production system. Centrality of economic policy and new paradigms, i.e. the reduction of the boundaries of public spending too often unproductive, of a state too often cumbersome; reduction of inequalities, as I cross for greater individual freedom, as well as, finally, the creation of a fiscal and administrative environment more adapted to the needs of growth of productive activities: this is the essence of an economic reformism that today, with this measure, the Renzi Government and its Minister of Economy and Finance start within a country that thirsts for a new beginning. A country that has believed and believes - as it showed a week ago - that it can recover and have the strength to resume vigorously the opportunity to grow, to return to give answers to citizens and to fight that enormous injustice that is unemployment, whose data still tell us that we have to work in this direction. These measures will also have to be consolidated with the next Stability Act and will give a sense of this new style so that we no longer have to be afraid to admit that tax levels above a certain threshold have discouraged action, reducing the level of resources available, rather than increasing them. Today, through this first important measure, we can begin to fight an unbearable wound such as the unemployment I mentioned. Entering into the substance of the measure, the tax credit of 640 euros per year is one of the pillars of support to our people who, since the entry into force of the measure, sees an additional monthlyity with a stimulus to consumption that is fundamental. Today the risk of the asphycticity of the internal market and possible deflation are the first objective to be combated, together with the creation of the new and renewed spirit of confidence that we have achieved. This is a structural measure, although further steps will have to be taken to consolidate this indication. On business and production activities, three are the most important measures: the reduction of IRAP rates, the unblocking of public administration payments to promote greater liquidity in the circulation of our economy (which is also the objective of the ECB compared to the contraction recorded in these six years of crisis) and the strengthening of resources for school construction. IRAP rates are reduced by 10% from the year of tax, with a reduction in the tax burden on productive activities and, above all, on the impact of labour costs and an additional 5 billion is allocated for payments to companies supplying goods and services to public administrations with important effects in terms of greater liquidity in the production system. Also important are the provisions introduced with the article that enhances resources for school construction... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Mr Moscardelli (PD). ... to add to the exclusion of the costs incurred by the municipalities for school building interventions from the verification of compliance with the Stability Pact. As far as cover is concerned, the increase in the taxation of financial pensions does not involve a new tax on wealth but an adjustment to the European averages. The increased revenue from the increase, amounting to 2.6 billion, will be used to finance the reduction of IRAP, thus achieving that important shift in taxation from those who create work to rents. The measure therefore contains a common foundation that goes in the right direction: it saves unproductive spending, introduces elements of strong redistribution and creates a new climate of trust in our country. A country that can finally think and hope to overcome the most serious period of difficulty since the post-war period and to resume the role that Italy deserves in Europe and the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u39	Madam President, the decree-law under discussion today pursues the philosophy that has already been clearly outlined with the measures recently adopted: a middle way between the classic blanket too short and a sort of Robin Hood on the contrary that steals from the poor to pay homage to the least poor. For weeks we have heard about this 53 euro monthly oboleum (remember that it becomes 80 just because their delivery is compressed in a period of 8 months) granted to some, paid by all. Paradoxically, and it is good that this is a clear concept to those who listen to us, paid even by those who, though worse than those who perceive it, will not be entitled to it. A trifle example? Taxation on the interests of current accounts, which is now in fact compulsory, especially for pensioners! Spices, you say! Of course, but the change, taken away from those who have less are everything, except social justice. I think it would be interesting to superimpose the catchment area of the benefit with the Italian electorate as a whole, but I am already convinced that the quotation made by Mr Paglini during the debate on draft law No 1464 on employment corresponds to reality: the poor do not vote and therefore do not care. However, there are in the decree-law less "fascinatingly media" aspects that denote the superficiality with which the same has dealt with some topics. I have already talked about the increased taxation of current account interests, but it is worth recalling that it will affect various forms of investment. If the general principle can be accepted, the real risk is that professional investors, diversifying their portfolio on the basis of changed tax treatment, significantly reduce the effects of higher taxation, ensuring a significantly lower revenue than expected. On the other hand, and - I add - almost like a mockery, the small savers will pay the most salty bill. Article 4 refers to the revaluation of company assets: a measure that was sold by the Letta Government in the framework of the Stability Act as a great opportunity for companies to strengthen their capital base and to face the credit market with greater serenity (it is more or less the same thing that we find in the final considerations of the Governor of the Bank of Italy), also because the substitute tax on capital gains could be diluted in three years. Today, however, there is a need for money and, therefore, you pay everything and in a year, with many dear greetings to the great opportunity and to any legitimate tax planning. Speaking of which, just to clarify how short the blanket is, I understand that the Government has theoretically changed, but for the record, those who were before had said that the revenue deriving from the taxation on capital gains would have participated in the coverage of the burdens of the Stability Act for 2015 and 2016; therefore, maybe you should make a phone call! In paragraph 12 of the same article we speak of greater taxation on the gains that the banks have realized thanks to the revaluation of the shares Bankitalia. Senator Carraro said in the Commission that we in the 5 Star Movement Group would be happy, because the gift given to some credit institutions would have been a little less substantial. Let's clear the field from every misunderstanding: gift was and gift remains. It is true that we would have wanted a tax even higher than 26%, but not in this way pirate. I have no particular sympathy for the banks and I am convinced that in the end any higher tax burden will be passed on to customers (yes, even those of the 80 euros will not see a single penny) or at least it will become yet another justification for not giving breath to the credit market, but here the problem is different. In this case we are not talking about someone who has benefited from a tax shield: those are evaders, indeed - I mean more clearly - are thieves, and so it is fine to treat them and pay them back with the same currency. In this case, we have taxpayers who have undoubtedly been granted a benefit and with whom the State has taken a certain tax agreement. It is a subject to which it is said: You know what? Now you pay twice as much as you agreed, and now you're paying twice as much. What about the statute of the taxpayer's rights? What about the Constitution? I worry because for a moment I replace the word bank with taxpayer and I think: today to them and tomorrow to all other citizens. Let us continue: this measure also talks about combating tax evasion. It is said that from that will arrive first 300 million (structural), then 2 billion. Colleagues, if you tell us that this money, particularly with regard to the two billions, is not to cover the measure under consideration, then what is this article for? Is that a reminder? It is good to remember that this is not the tax delegation, nor the document of economy and finance, acts that we have already discussed and voted on. If you do not justify such an article here, explaining how you will find these billions in current legislation, we are talking about fried air; indeed, since the director of the Revenue Agency said that the lack of IRPEF, IRAP, VAT revenue and so on in the private sector was estimated for 2011 at 89 billion and that all those involved in the fight against tax evasion and tax collection have explained to us during the hearings for the cognitive survey on taxation that are carrying out their tasks to the best, that better could not be done, you could write even 15 or 20 billion, so to launch more reassuring figures! I would also leave out any comment on Article 7 on the allocation of the proceeds from the fight against evasion, on which a number of concerns have been raised by the Budget Service, such as the derogation from the principles of oneness and annuality of the budget. To me they seem legitimate doubts of those who know their work and study with professionalism the measures, but surely it is a subtle vengeance of the services, as the Head of Government says. On the other hand, I would like to refer to Article 22. Ladies and gentlemen, is the basic idea really to cash in on renewables and agriculture, that is, renewables which, as we know, represent the future not only energy but also employment? Do you think this will help create jobs, you who recently told us that this was your priority in the unemployment decree? Doesn't it seem reasonable to think that a cover of this kind will come back like a boomerang? And then there are the agricultural land: if we believe that there are situations where the facilities are not due, then we need a punctual survey in order to hit the irregular situations. Certainly we cannot rely on a future ministerial decree which, on the one hand, prevents us today from assessing the adequacy of the proposed cover and, on the other hand, almost certainly will shoot in the pile, going to strike indiscriminately a category of workers who are already heavily affected by the economic crisis that is still taking place today. Honestly, I do not intend to go any further, not least because I realize that there are few of us left to listen. It comes to mind that in the end, considering also all the covers that have been discussed in these days and that have been the subject of extensive discussions, it will be almost inevitable to activate the safeguard clause, the one that will hit, once again indiscriminately, consumption, despite we are well aware that these consumptions are falling. In fact, the crisis is not over and the light at the end of the tunnel is just an illusion or it is the train that comes from the top. I wonder where, in a measure that speaks of social justice, these social justices have remained. In my opinion, there will be few traces of social justice in the end, while the incredible electoral value that this measure has had will remain in the minds of the Italians and of all of us: in this respect it probably comes immediately after the provision on the return of the IMU. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u40	The vote on the election of a Senator Secretary has been closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes in the adjacent Pannini Room. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aiello, Leola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bertorotta, Broglia, Braccarella, Bueni, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassaldi, Centinio, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Chiti, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Cicinnà, Cociancio, Cesalto, Cassol, Cassaldi, Cassaldi, Centina, Centina, Cenio
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u41	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as is happening more and more often, we are faced with yet another measure which promises miracles but which, in reality, has only increased taxes for citizens and businesses. A measure that ultimately penalizes the dynamic and productive aspect of the country, decreases the wealth of families and blocks the development of companies already hit hard by the economic crisis. I would like to highlight some of the most critical points, those on which Forza Italia proposed, unheard of, amendments in the Budget Commission. We have asked, for example, for the deletion of the entire Article 4 concerning the advance payment of taxes on the revaluation of goods, because it is counterproductive and penalising for companies, essentially for two orders of reasons. First of all, from a legal point of view, legal certainty is lacking. Those who had decided to revalue the assets of their company with the guarantee of a payment delayed in three years, are now obliged to pay the full amount by 2014. If at the origin there was a pact between state and citizens, based on the consent of the two parties, there is now a unilateral administrative act imposed without the consent of the other party. Secondly, the anticipation of the payment of revaluation taxes by 2014 poses a problem of cover for the following two years. Today the state will increase its revenue by EUR 606 million, but the same figure will be missing for the next two years. A financial anticipation that will have as its sole result, almost certainly, increased taxation for 2015 and 2016. It is also very likely that companies will, for the future, choose not to re-evaluate their assets, since such a measure discourages this decision. As a consequence, we will inevitably have a reduction in state revenue: further and evident demonstration that the Government does not know how to formulate forecasts of wide range and is lacking of any strategic vision. Another important issue concerns the costs of public administration, both at central and peripheral level. There is no doubt that the administrative machinery needs to be resized, but it is certainly not with the mechanisms provided for in this decree that satisfactory and definitive results can be obtained. Of all, the most perplexing issue is the renegotiation of current contracts between the public administration and suppliers of goods and services. According to the provision in the decree, public administration can reduce the total amount of the contract to up to 5%. If this happens, the supplier, objectively deprived of any margin of bargaining power, has only the possibility to accept the "renegotiated" conditions or to terminate the contract. It is another violation of the rule of law, and it is clear that this provision will be the source of countless administrative and judicial disputes, which, contrary to what is being achieved, will cause additional costs and uncertainties. It is no coincidence that Forza Italia has requested that this provision should not apply to existing contracts, avoiding at least the obvious violation of the general principle of legitimate expectations. Let us now come to the question of the IMU: a hateful tax which should be abolished and which, instead, in this measure, is also extended to hilly agricultural land. It is EUR 350 million which, from 2014, has entered the state's coffers. It is absolutely unacceptable for Forza Italia to increase further the audience of taxable persons, especially in an agricultural sector, which would need support through new incentives. Moreover, it is a general taxation, of which it is impossible to understand logic and to understand parameters. However, let us come to what we consider to be the most unfair and wrong rule in this measure, which we have not by chance compared to the 1896 mill tax: the increase in the taxation of income on bank and postal deposits from 20 to 26 percent. This is an unsustainable choice that will hit the savings of Italian households estimated at 1,200 billion euros. We do not understand how we can support the ratio of this choice in a measure which, pompously, is called urgent measures to ensure competitiveness and social justice. It seems to us that this taxation on private savings goes in the opposite direction and is based on principles of social injustice. It is a propaganda operation that, by indicating false goals as "great financial revenues," relies on low instincts of apparent social justice. It is, in fact, a measure that will in particular penalise small and honest Italian savers, families and pensioners who, with the implementation of these measures, will be hit by a further unjustified increase in taxes. Ours is a system of taxation of private savings that deviates significantly from the most advanced foreign tax systems: it creates uncertainty on the markets; it penalizes the formation of provisions and, last but not least, it does not attract capital from abroad. On the contrary, the aim should be to encourage the system of formation of savings, in line with the models that guarantee greater protection of the heritage set aside by families over time. It is necessary to enhance its driving role in support of investments, growth and development of our country. We need to encourage and exploit savings: it serves, and will serve in the future, for the integration and support of the social protection system; it is a factor of competitiveness and, as such, must be protected and protected from penal measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli, I invite you to conclude your speech. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, may I take advantage of the time available to my colleague from Forza Italia who left the Group and finish his speech? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't, Senator Mandelli. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). In view of the above, it is clear that an effective fiscal policy is needed to safeguard the function of savings. On the contrary, it is clear how counterproductive it is, for the well-being of the country, to continue to increase the rates on savings. The last argument I would like to make concerns the issue of EUR 80. Let's be clear: we welcome this small increase for many Italians who really need it. But we cannot do without asking ourselves questions, which are the same as most Italian citizens: why not provide for an equivalent measure for pensioners? Why should self-employed workers be discriminated against in relation to employees? Why in a decree that speaks of social justice just the weakest part, that of the incapients, has not been taken into consideration? Given that a large part of the revenues that must cover these measures are merely financial anticipation or one-off, what guarantee will the Italians have that the Government will keep its promise to expand the audience of the beneficiaries of the IRPEF reduction? Unfortunately, the government cannot give any guarantee: it will probably only give answers without figures, without times and without prospects for the poor - and it is not just a joke - Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the debate on this decree has taken place largely over the past few weeks. There is certainly not much new to be said, except for the good work done in the Commission and the judgment that the Italians were able to express in the vote on Sunday 25 May against the criticism and the initial prejudices. It is a consensus that has removed doubts about the credibility and appreciation of a decree that represents concretely the most representative and significant act of this phase of the start of the new Government. It is a representative act because, in its fundamental decision, i.e. the reduction of the tax wedge, we are moving in the direction we have always wanted in Europe as a means of boosting confidence and consumption. It is a reduction at last in a meaningful and visible dimension for every citizen who benefits from it: significant under the conditions given; significant for the dimensions that have exceeded of momentum the entities so far discussed and hypothesized or realized. It is significant because, thanks to its size and its articulation, it comes out of the debate on whom to prefer between citizens and businesses and gives significant answers to the former as a first signal adapted to the latter. And in the face of criticism of the possible insufficiency of this reduction, it must be said that the courage to do so was first and foremost an act of confidence in the Italians and of credit for our ability to trust our means. It is also a representative act in the choices related to coverage, which introduces ex-novo or strengthens previous decisions, in the direction of a fair pact between the State and the citizens, for a sober and reliable administration, in the latter case in line with the choices also of the Government at the beginning of the legislature. In this sense, the way forward is to rebuild a relationship of trust with citizens, businesses and organisations. Can you trust more than one state that intervenes in a redistributive way, putting roofs on the salaries of its top and increasing the lower ones? Can more be trusted than an administration that intervenes to rebalance its costs, reducing them and working for greater efficiency? More can be trusted by those who pay their debts and avoid the accumulation of others, who kill companies that trust the State, who try digitalization to introduce greater transparency and to bring out those who slow down, who works without passion and without commitment in the public administration? Yes, you can trust him more. And you can ask more, in terms of trust, trust in the country and in yourself, as well as conviction in your own means: you can ask who is resigned because you have seen so many and who is discouraged by unnecessary attempts and is thinking that it is not worth it, that maybe it is better to leave everything and go away. This measure is above all an invitation to try, to stay in the country, to insist, even when data such as those on unemployment yesterday are scary, both general data and data on the Mezzogiorno and, within the data on the Mezzogiorno, those on boys and girls. This provision is for them, even in the face of the addiction that sometimes, in the face of numbers, we also try. Every courageous act that we will do we have to do it for those people who are behind these numbers, because the alternative is to say that it would take a lot more: legitimate sure, but no one then tells how to do it. I want to add little to these evaluations. First of all, the decree is amended by the Commission's demanding work which improves it. It improves it in the reasonable extension of the beneficiaries, in the direction of a more visible equity, which was not lacking in the will of the Government, but which has been clarified and strengthened. It improves it in terms of finding resources, with a rebalancing of the social security pillars that preludes to a revision project that has been established since 2015 and that must consider what has been left behind in previous reforms, such as the pension of young professionals. It improves it with interventions on the installment of the debitorial folders, in the direction of giving a new opportunity to those who have remained behind not by their will, but by the objective conditions of a local economy loses weight. Finally, it improves on the Rai front, on the regional information front and on the alleged sale of RAI Way. The decree intervened on the front of the demand for a reduction of the costs of all the participants, to the extent of 2.5% in 2014 and 4 percent in 2015, and hit the RAI, on which was added an ulterior cut of 150 million with the cancellation of a regional organization defined and traditional. In this direction it has been clarified, with the approval of an amendment that makes it explicit, that RAI was rightly asked for a contribution to the rehabilitation of the country with only one intervention and not on both fronts. Then there is the front of local public information: on this is done without prejudice to the presence in each region of a regional editorial staff and a regional organized presence, not to protect individuals or presumed local potentates, but to avoid the risk that, in a fragile economic context, where the local media market is almost non-existent, the lack of a public information service allows the birth of local monopolies of private information. Our position is not, nor has it been, therefore, to protect buildings, main or secondary offices, which must be managed by the management (which is responsible for the cost of a rent as well as the remuneration of a television conductor), but in defence of local public information, which guarantees the freedom of citizens and their institutions. Finally, RAI Way: in substance, with an amendment, the possibility of selling strategic quotas that can affect its ownership is excluded. But the alleged sale of RAI Way, whose hypothesis precedes this measure, hides in the background the discussion on the perspective of the function of RAI, as a company and as a public service. I think that these changes have recreated the conditions of a context in which to discuss and decide peacefully how to design RAI and public service over the next ten years, in the face of the profound change in the information system, how to rewrite the public service contract. In Parliament, the task of discussing this, without leaving to the government alone neither the boiling potato of a decision nor the approach of a function that is not at the service of a majority, but of the country as a whole, taking the opportunity to secure it from the repetition of contexts such as those of the last twenty years, with unacceptable information concentrations, if they were repeatable. I took a longer time on the topic of RAI not because it was central in the decree, but because it is significant of the time of change that we go through and the challenges that we have to meet to put ourselves in harmony with that great part of the country that chose to vote for us, because it is not for the 80 euros per month that the PD has been given consent, but for the change. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u45	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u46	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the healthy democratic opposition, it is vital, for the health of our democracy, for the opposition to make fleas to the work of the Government and its majority. With this in mind, and not because of a sterile and fruitless opposition, we can only reiterate the criticalities of this measure, both from the macro economic point of view (and I refer to what has already been said in general discussion about the DEF), and the impact on the real economy and therefore on the lives of citizens. The policy that this measure underlies, falsely advertised and sold - but with profit, given the effects on the electoral campaign for Europeans - as a redistributive is actually, on the one hand, a tip sold as an intervention to increase internal spending and, on the other, a continuation of a neoliberal reform plan, badly hidden behind an emerging vision. This short speech of mine, limited by the time allowed to me, is intended only to highlight the hypocrisy masked in some articles. Some of my colleagues have already highlighted and will highlight other critical issues. For example, Article 9 headlines: "Acquisition of goods and services through aggregate entities and reference prices". It should be one of the architraves of the much praised revision of the expenditure from which the decree should draw most of its covers. And instead you want to realize it, as can be seen from the above article, with the birth of a new coordinating body that certainly, given the precedents, will become another center of power from which to give chairs of gratitude to friends. So there will be an increase in bureaucracy. As a real opposition, we have pushed you to accept our amendments, so that this can be achieved, at least without burden on the state budget, since you had planned, in order to reduce expenditure, to spend another 10 million. Just as we have tried to put a stop, with another amendment of ours, to the monopoly power behind the operation of the CONSIP, which is the denial - sometimes - of the original mandate of its very existence. I say this in order to make it clear to the paid press that we are participating in the legislative activity having as our sole reference the common good of the citizens. But what is more serious is what is absent, totally absent in this measure too, which also says: "urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice". Totally absent, in fact, are the measures aimed at restarting the Digital Agenda, perhaps the only one that can constitute a flywheel for a possible and stable growth that gives a future to our nation. Even more serious is the lack of any intervention for the South, a real social emergency with unemployment that now exceeds every bearable threshold, as the latest data ISTAT have reiterated! The southern companies, I remind you, like those of Calabria, from which I come, pay the electricity produced by the power plants, located in our territory, more expensive than in the North and with an electricity network never renewed! As well as bank credit that, when it is not a money-lender system (such as the De Masi affair, sanctioned in final judgments, has proved), is more expensive than 30 percent, with slower concession times and with mortgages whose rates are three percentage points higher, when they are granted! What can we say, moreover, of the connections and the transports, that they see penalized the South for the backwardness of the road network: in this regard I cannot but make a joke on Salerno - Reggio Calabria that - to say it with Pino Aprile - tells the story of how the State keeps subordinate the South to the North, with waste of resources, in exchange for inefficient structures, and this thanks to the worst of the South and the North. And in the same way is absent - when not dismantled, as on the Ionian coast - any intervention on the railway network. From Calabrian, then, I must bitterly mark as the largest port for container of the Mediterranean, that of Gioia Tauro, langue in oblivion not being able to sift goods neither in entry nor in exit (although it is useful, apparently, to do the dirty work on behalf of third parties, like in the transhipment of the Syrian chemical weapons), because a functional railway connection is missing! A port very close to the whole world, but very far from Calabria and Italy, as a fellow countryman recalled. Yet, Germany has been so vicious since the revival of its East - its South - that it has become the engine of Europe again, activating unexpected consumption and relaunching itself as the engine of the world economy. Nothing from us! The recent Italian governments - first those marked by the axis between a current prejudiced and an anti-southern political force, then those of certain professors - have made the South, my land, a land of new emigration - and this time of young people with degrees - and of misery, manifesting the clear will to let it die of envy and mafia, with the complicity of the occult powers, because in reality you still want us slaves! But if the struggle to see us recognized as a right of citizenship can still appear long, fortunately the recent European elections have shown - in contrast to the national data - that the southern people have in the 5 Star Movement a new instrument to finally obtain that equal social dignity that will make Italy a united country. And despite a ghost council, that of the Calabria Region, yesterday promulgated an electoral law with a 15% barrier, which does not exist anywhere else in the world, we will be there and we will fight for Calabria and for the South. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u47	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u48	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law on which we are preparing to vote today contains urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice. It would seem, therefore, that the title already sets itself a high objective of possible social change. We know, however, that legislative measures which have taken place in recent years have had little to do with social justice. They have almost always been in favour of a few: banks and insurance primarily, increasing poverty and social imbalances. But we, otherwise politicians, say that another world is possible, another Italy is possible. It is possible to change the orientation towards those who gather great wealth in search of income by benefiting, on the one hand, from transfers from the public and, on the other hand, from the rules that allow them to exercise a monopoly and exploitation power. We need to change the model that describes the determination of income within the social scale, which has now come to relationships and shameful differences. Happiness is not in possessing. We need to change the value perception of possession. It is necessary to attack income and to ensure that markets work more on competition than on exploitation. We must not succumb to the fetishism of GDP and, as is the case recently, to that of spread. That is why we are asking for something more than an aid of 80 euros, albeit useful, but guaranteed to a single economic belt and distributed without the right weight and without the right proportion. We propose the containment of the financial sector; to intervene on loans, rents, their taxation, guaranteeing payment and common protection; to contain the financial sector, avoiding excessive risk-taking by companies and financial institutions too large to fail; to make banks more transparent, especially with regard to the treatment of derivatives (how many debts do we have because of derivatives?); to make the banks, the companies that manage the debit and credit cards according to the laws of the competition, in particular reducing the costs of the transactions offered to the traders; to close the international offshore banking centers. We propose stronger and more effective competition laws; the improvement of corporate governance, especially in order to limit the imbalance between minimum and maximum powers, which has now reached unacceptable levels. We propose to facilitate access to credit, but by shifting the burden on the creditor and not on the debtor, through real and not purely financial and numerical analysis tools. We propose to put an end to the government's gifts to large economic and financial enterprises: I am referring to all those provisions that prevent real competitive negotiations and allow costs out of the market, concessions and other favors that translate into pure transfer of money from the public to the private, not to mention rampant corruption. We also propose to shift military spending from means to people, reducing them - and here we do not dwell on the issue of flying boxes called F35 - and to completely reform the tax, in a structural way, to impose progressive taxation and to close all loopholes, introducing a minimum tax and a roof on higher incomes. A fair tax system would tax speculators, at least at the same rate as those who, in order to earn, work. It is necessary to give the consumer the real opportunity to benefit from tax reductions and benefits on everything he buys. Finally, we propose to support the collective action of workers and citizens, fighting the rules of the game, which weaken the contractual force of workers compared to that of capital. The situation of inequality has reached very high levels and has not yet resulted in riots or popular demonstrations, as in other countries close to us, only thanks to the advantage of living in a democracy. It is the same democracy that has strengthened, with the recent electoral result, the mandate to a government representative of a Parliament of elected, but that no longer respects the electorate, both from the formal and the numerical point of view. Let us not forget that the message and mandate remain to reverse the trend, which guarantees too many benefits to 10% of the population, at the expense of the remaining 90 percent. We must go to Europe to renegotiate the parameters that Italy places in this situation. We are going to hit the non-colleague, tax evasion and the flight of capital abroad, and we would no longer have so much public debt. We still do not understand that our country can become competitive only if we really invest there, where in short we can be unique and unrepeatable: research, training, culture, art and tourism. You always tell us not to be proactive. Here is a new direction that you can take: just have courage. We are in a social state not to make the interest of banks and more, but to safeguard the common good and happiness of all. Come on, Renzi! Italy needs courage, not charity. You had 40 percent confidence in about 50 percent of the voters - deserve it! [[Applause from Senators Mussini and De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u49	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u50	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to reiterate here in this House some comments on a specific part of this decree concerning the radio and television system. This is an issue which I have already dealt with in the Commission and which has been discussed and will also be discussed during these hours in the parliamentary supervisory committee, knowing very well that it has no competence over the decree and that, however, it has competence and responsibility for the fate and design of the radio and television system. I would like to make a brief point, however, as I note that this decree comes to the House with the betrayal of the announcements made in recent days on the issues of the protection of single-income families and the announcement of further measures on IRAP. I hope that some groups that support the government will sooner or later privilege the choice on the contents of the "Tanassi syndrome," which plagued a small party, the PSDI, which came from a glorious story - that is, from the breakup of Saragat at Palazzo Barberini, when he chose the West against the East - and then over the years became a place where he claimed some place of government, giving up any instance of content. I hope that those who want to defend the reasons of families will not be afflicted by this syndrome and do not give up content in exchange for some place. The Commission's outcome in this respect was bankruptcy and deficit. We are well aware of the value of the policy rules, which say that we refer a decision to the law of stability, that is nothing. We have seen this, for example, with regard to bathing enterprises: in the law of stability we have set the date of 15 May by which to respond to that sector. Now, in this decree, the date of May 15, which has already passed, becomes October 15, and God knows if the answers will arrive that claim the bathing enterprises, that they are a resource for the country - I say it in the middle of the summer season - and that we want to affirm with our proposals of law. As far as the radio and television system is concerned, waste must be combated: I know the sector in order to have followed the subjects of that area, including from the legislative point of view, and I am the first to be able to say here, in this House, that there are territorial fora sometimes unnecessarily large-scale. I could give specific examples, of Genoa rather than of Cosenza, of Florence rather than of other places; but the presence of regional information must be guaranteed. The amendment adopted in the Commission partially solves this problem, but I believe that this issue is dealt with in a demagogic way. The public service must ensure regional information; but apart from this, the square meters of the buildings are not written in the laws and RAI can, in constancy of law, fight waste of all kinds. In Venice there is a historic building on Canal Grande, Palazzo Labia, which the RAI could safely sell, if you find a buyer, obviously with appropriate offers, moving the seat to less prestigious places. We are therefore all agreed that waste should be combated and roofs should be applied. As for, then, the star system, it is clear that RAI acts in competition, so it is difficult to frame the great conductor, the anchorman, the artist in the economic roofs, otherwise also for Prandelli you could have made this reasoning (but in football, as in the show, the market logics sometimes are worth more than the spending roofs). However, RAI can certainly do a lot against waste. But the intervention of EUR 150 million is crude, unjustified and illegitimate, because the fee is a tax of purpose. Authors of jurists and constitutionalists have already shown - and if there is recourse the Government will have to return this money to RAI - that the distraction of funds coming from a tax of purpose is illegal. Those who pay the fee pay a fee for RAI and public service. Taking that money and putting it to other goals is illegal. I'll make two proposals to the government. You want to take out 150 million euros from RAI? Then also remove them from the canon and reduce the value of the canon by the corresponding figure; so in next January all families will pay 10 percent less canon. Or, since it is claimed that RAI does not do enough to modernise itself, then, with a directive, the shareholder (which is the Government) could require RAI to invest part of the proceeds of the canon - or whatever it will be - on the web, in the most advanced technologies, to be competitive. Who forbids that? Otherwise a fake battle is being waged, which is facilitated - of which I realize - by the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council is dealing with USIGRAI, a somewhat old-fashioned mechanism, an acronym that seems to speak of other ages; in the dialectical confrontation, therefore, it is easy to win it. But the problem is that citizens do not get any benefit from it, because the canon is not reduced; it is a sudden choice, because in the courts the government will have to return this money to RAI, and no modernization is made, because if they escape a company 150 million euros in the course of the year, this will have less to modernize and to do other operations. The fight against waste can and must be done anyway; the sale of RAI Way or of branches of RAI company is already possible thanks to the law that I brought to the approval ten years ago. In fact, that law provides for the possibility of assigning shares of RAI or branches of the company, so there is no need for the norm. With regard to RAI Way, I hope that we do not give up control of that company which - I would remind the non-experts - controls the transmission networks: it is the one that makes television exist, that if it did not have the opportunity to broadcast it could not, from the studies, disseminate its contents. I blocked a sale of RAIWAYA years ago, and I told the board members at the time. There is one, Vittorio Emiliani, who defined the Gasparri law as "infamous." It is infamous that Vittorio Emiliani and others signed the Lion pact: more than ten years ago they wanted to sell 49 percent of RAI Way to an American company, Crown Castle. There were parasocial pacts, which gave control power to the minority, because no strategic decision could have been made without the consent of 60-70 percent of the shareholders; therefore, whoever bought 49 percent would have commanded. It was a lion's covenant, and people like Vittorio Emiliani would have to answer before the courts of lawlessness he had accomplished. Having the powers, which had been conferred on me by the decisions of the previous (left) government, I blocked that sale, which gave over control of RAI pretending not to give it up; the TAR, to which the RAI of the time turned, gave me reason, with a reasoned sentence (which I invite to reread). It was, therefore, prevented that sale, which, among other things, allows today to have that heritage: if RAI will give in transparently a minority share, obtaining money, it is because at the time it prevented the sale, so there is still a heritage. I also want to invite the government to reflect on so many issues. Yesterday, the President of the Republic and other authorities of the country received a letter from the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) denouncing this subtraction of resources. It will be said: what does this body matter? We are always talking about Europe and international entities and the European Broadcasting Agency writes exactly on the issue of the purpose tax and the impossibility of taking this money away from RAI, which we have said. Moreover, giving up this debauchery is not incompatible with the fight against waste. I also want to say that a short-sighted choice will be made: just think of the role of Rupert Murdoch, the owner of Sky, a television that today in Italy is the first in terms of turnover. In fact, thanks to Gasparri law (No. 112 of 2004), pluralism has grown in Italy, and RAI no longer has three networks, but it has 15, with digital terrestrial. In those years Sky was born, which today is the first for turnover, and have remained on the market private broadcasters such as Mediaset and La7. There has been an increase in supply and jobs have increased as part of the radio and television system. Today the landscape is much richer than before, with many more televisions, and putting on the knees the public service can trigger a situation of crisis and regression, in a moment of economic crisis and therefore of the advertising market, since the companies have less gain, have not at all or close and invest less in advertising. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, please. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I'm done, ma'am. There is a risk of a crisis in a sector that has created wealth and pluralism, because thanks to that law the channels have multiplied, and since there are more people who work and produce at various levels. It is therefore a crude and shortsighted choice, which pretends to fight waste and will be defeated in the appeal. A choice that puts in difficulty the public service and a whole system of radio and information that has grown with mainly private means and with the canon, without giving benefits to the citizens. Since the matter is broad and complex it will not end with a decree and with the inevitable and announced vote of confidence, to which certainly, also for these reasons, we will say a firm no, in defense of the public service, of the families, of the enterprises and of all those who are penalized and betrayed by this decree. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u51	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a Senator Secretary: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 255]] Senators got votes: [[Raffaele Volpi 186 Giuseppe Vacciano 27 Laura Bignami 6 Michela Montevecchi 4 Vincenzo Santangelo 2 Dispensi 6 Scheda bianche 15 Scheda nulle 9]] I declare Senator Raffaele Volpi elected Secretary, to whom I wish him every success. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so. I pray to be silent from the benches of the League Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the measure we are debating and approving today is not only, as the press has said in all these months, the intervention of the EUR 80, i.e. the reduction of the tax wedge for employed and assimilated workers. It consists of a more organic and complex intervention, and above all I think it must be stressed that it contains important measures, which go in the direction of the fairness of the distribution of sacrifices. It was not done with this decree as in a past unfortunately not far from creative finance: real coverages have been sought. In the sign of fairness, a number of actions are particularly appropriate, such as the revaluation of Bankitalia's shares from 12% to 26%. I would have expected to hear different assessments in this House too after here, in the House and in the election campaign, someone kept repeating the lie that the previous government had given the banks EUR 7.5 billion, while not a single euro came out of the state's coffers to the banks. But above all I would have liked to hear an appreciation from this point of view, because this intervention - questionable in some respects and on this I agree with some of the observations made by my colleague Vacciano - obtains for the coffers of the State a recovery of revenues of 1,794 million euros for only 2014. This is real money coming out of the vaults of the banks and entering into those of the state budget. The 2% rate on income of a financial nature, with the exception of government bonds, goes in the direction of penalising pensions against work. There are plans to reduce public expenditure on goods and services and also - I should like to remind you - a measure which I do not hesitate to define as revolutionary, albeit in quotes. I am referring to the introduction of the maximum salary threshold for civil servants for 240,000 Europeans. These are important interventions that, as I said before, go in the sign of the fair distribution of sacrifices at a time of extraordinary economic difficulty in the country. I would like to recall the important effort made by the Government on the issue of the liquidity of local authorities, a front that has seen the defaulting state vis-à-vis companies. I am talking about the delay in payments by local authorities and regions. This decree implements of 6 billion euros the fund already previewed from decree-law n. 35 of 2013; introduces for the first time a ceiling of 2 billion euros for the debts of the Municipalities towards not only the participated ones, but also of the participating agencies, finally, introduces a fund of 300 million euros in order to pay the commercial debts of the Municipalities in failure. This is real money; it is an injection towards the economy, but above all an intervention in the right direction of respect for the general principle of the relationship between the citizen and the state. On the subject of RAI, mentioned here by my colleague Gasparri, there has been some sort of media terrorism these days. There has even been a fantastic and non-existent Nazarene agreement to promote Mediaset. There was talk of the sale of Rai Way, as if the government had decided to sell all RAI Way, and I listened with my own ears, in the Supervisory Committee, colleagues of the opposition evoke that, in case of danger of coup, the first to be guarded are precisely the RAI towers. None of this. It is quite clear that the reduction of EUR 150 million can be resolved through the sale of a minority share of RAI Way. There is no sale or privatisation and we must start to have the intellectual courage and honesty to talk about these things. AIROLA (M5S). Let's put our trust in this once again! [[Senator Airola leaves the hemicycle]] Mr Airola's intelligence is also demonstrated by his speech and his known ability to listen. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator Airola, you have to understand that an account is screaming at meetings...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u54	Senator Fornaro, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u55	Mr Fornaro (PD). I'm talking to no one, because Senator Airola is out. One thing is to speak at the meetings; another is to confront ourselves in the seat of democracy, Parliament. As you understand, it is my colleague Airola who has summoned the coup. From this point of view, there is another aspect that Mr Lai touched on in relation to RAI. In this regard, I would like to stress the important role played by the PD Group, the Vice-President of the Supervisory Commission Margiotta, Senator Lai, myself, Mr Russo and other colleagues from Friuli, because the Commission has worked very hard and has achieved important results for RAI, which I consider to be a valuable asset. RAI was in fact excluded from the cuts in operating costs foreseen for the participants in Article 20 and the presence of journalistic editorials with relative production media in each capital of the Region has been confirmed. The strategic role of regional information for a public service such as RAI has basically been called back. Finally, it remains a fundamental issue - and I address it to Deputy Minister Morando - because it is quite clear that there are still some aspects that do not go, also in the measure: the final amendment on the TASI photograph unfortunately a situation of uncertainty for both taxpayers and the municipalities, which does not help, especially in the direction of finally achieving stability of the rules on property taxation and the forms of financing of the budgets of the municipalities. It remains, as I said, a fundamental issue, namely the need for a change in European economic policy as quickly as possible: strategic and infrastructure investment must be removed from the Maastricht criterion of deficit-GDP ratio. This decree, for example, supports domestic demand and improves the competitiveness of businesses, but a major European strategic plan for investment, infrastructure and the fight against unemployment, which remains an unacceptable evil and cancer of our economy and our social system, must be added to these interventions. Europe will not emerge from this crisis without the courage to take extraordinary initiatives: the rigour alone not only does not help to get out of the crisis, but risks endangering democracy itself. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u56	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u57	Madam President, the famous decree-law that contains the gift to the most naive and hopeful Italian citizens has finally arrived: yes, today, beyond self-criticism, we can strongly affirm that this decree was the passepartout that opened the doors to Renzi's vote and victory. Frankly, I am very sorry and not for the electoral result, but for the instrument of which this Government has used to obtain it: it has promised in fact 80 euros in bag pays defiling the activity of valid and authoritative officials who have contested the cover of this expenditure; it has promised substantial reductions of expenditure on the basis of the indications of Commissioner Cottarelli, removing with one hand and putting on the other with both (see the case Expo); again, it has promised the reduction of the IRAP and cuts for the companies participated. I mean, the usual hot soup to serve for dinner on a hot day in hell. This is what this Commission continues to do: it mocks people's ingenuity and does worse. In this decree, which contains urgent measures for competitiveness and social justice, proposals have been included which only a man of good will can achieve. In fact, this measure contains provisions on the IRPEF relating to employees, the reduction of purchases for goods and services, the limitation of expenses for consultancy duties, the raising of the taxation of rents to 26%, the control and revision of the companies involved and the anticipation of liquidity to pay the debts of public administrations: in short, these are arguments and objectives of valuable and admirable political and social consideration; but, in practice, they are poorly achievable and in a state like ours remain only dead letter. Let me explain to you the reason for this and, above all, my scepticism: the cuts in expenditure which the decree in question basically aims to achieve seem to me to forget two fundamental facts, which are also essential for the Court of Auditors. To the Italian citizen who struggles to arrive at the end of the month, when it comes to reducing expenditure, the first thing that comes to mind is the reduction of the compensation of parliamentarians, the number and the compensation of the directors of the companies involved and, again, the elimination of the vital benefits resulting from elective public functions, still today recognized to condemned subjects, even definitively, for crimes against the public administration and against the administration of justice or for crimes of mafia: in short, these are reductions that could be done immediately, if the current majority really wanted to meet its voters, not certainly with the promise of a bonus limited in time and for a few lucky ones. However, beyond the content, more or less acceptable, of this provision, what leaves me most amazed is the process followed for its approval. In fact, if we were to take a careful look at the timing of the debate, the debate and the vote on the amendments in the Commissions meeting 5a and 6a, we could certainly see some slowness and confusion. First, the position of Prime Minister Renzi, who snubbed the senate officials who expressed doubts about the coverage of the measure (since then there has been no mention of it, which gives rise to some annoyance, since these people all turn out to be hardworking and effective in the role they play), then the haste in the illustration of the amendments with the procedural introduction of the technical rejection of many of these. This, in all sincerity, seems to me to be a slight consolation because it does not seem reassuring to me the choice of rejecting an amendment, often of common sense, because there is a government intention to deal with the content of that particular amending proposal with a specific measure. I was hoping that my Group's amendments, all for the benefit of the citizens, could at least be technically rejected, and instead I think they were rejected without technique, but only in a hurry! Our amendments are acceptable from the point of view of cover, they are acceptable from the point of view of constitutional profiles, but, for some strange astral situation, they are systematically settled. Then in the Commission comes a certain amendment without valid cover, but of some colleagues who support this Government, and magically it is admitted. Isn't that unfair? Isn't it blatantly annoying to undergo this derogatory treatment every day? Isn't it an offense to the Italians who trust in those changes and who don't let themselves be moved by the bonuses doing it? Madam President, you are obviously not a member of the Budget Commission, let alone the Finance and Treasury Commission, but if you had been present you would have honestly said that the 5 Star Movement's amendments were all, I repeat again, all of common sense and above all acceptable. Instead, for the umpteenth time, we see disowning our demands that would be useful for a correct revision of the expenditure, for an effective control of the participating societies, real clientele nests useful for a support to small entrepreneurs strangled by taxes; especially demands such as the income of citizenship that would have brought back dignity to the millions of citizens... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. BERTOROTTA (M5S). I'm finishing. Millions of citizens, I was saying, who lack their primary source of livelihood. For all these citizens we of the 5 Star Movement Group will continue to work because we are like them, beyond the task we carry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u59	Madam President, first of all, I wish you well with your voice, so that you may be well soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u60	Thank you, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u61	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The decree-law under consideration is an electoral decree and the most honest thing to do, once the result was achieved, the day after the elections - especially since the effects, from the point of view of the electoral return, were - would have been to withdraw it and then write something serious. But unfortunately, he stays. It has been said that it would be structural. The same President of the Council Renzi has repeatedly said that the famous 80 euros are structural, are final. Too bad that the written papers count (for now the simple proclamation by the President of the Council is not enough for one thing to become true) and paragraph 3 of Article 1 clearly states that the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 (the famous 80 euros) apply only for the tax period 2014. Clearer than that! The laws, in general (and this in particular), are often unintelligible, but this provision is very clear: it is only for 2014. Another thing that is certain is that contained in Article 50 (7), which is also expressed with commendable clarity: In order to find the resources to ensure the liquidity necessary for the implementation of the interventions referred to in Title III of this Decree (...), the issue of government bonds of up to EUR 40,000 million for the year 2014 is authorised. It is not that nothing was planned before: there was a certain lower sum. So there are two certain things: the benefits are passengers, they are realized in debt, while the increase of the taxes (numerous), partly already contained in the decree-law, partly added during the examination in the Commission (for example the increase of the taxes on the savings, the help of this measure together with others to increase the taxes on the house, the increase, even in the form of remodulation, of the taxes on the passports, the increase of the taxes on the pension funds), is instead definitive. So, in order to benefit from the 80 euros, only for 2014 and only for someone, structural taxes have been introduced, together with which, of course, a series of onerous and burdensome obligations could not be lacking for individual citizens, companies and public administrations. Of course, when new practices and new obligations are imposed in public administrations, it is always written: "without greater burdens", of course, it is without greater burden, except for the fact that public administrations, which should be at the service of citizens, must spend their time rendering services to cope with the additional laces and laces, controls, compliances, cards and to set up commissions, experts, committees and tables, instead of rendering services to the citizens for whom they are paid through taxes. Returning to EUR 80, it is worth highlighting some aspects. The title of the measure refers to competitiveness and social justice. Competitiveness exists only in that hint of reduction of the IRAP, and we do not go any further. As for social justice, it happens that, if a person earns EUR 20,000, he has a tax credit and, therefore, in practice he has more money available, but only if he is an employee; if he is self-employed - and therefore he is not absolutely sure that those EUR 20,000 earned there are also next year - he has no benefit. Therefore, the same income would mean the same taxation, according to Article 53 of the Constitution according to which everyone contributes according to his/her own possibilities. Therefore, if you are an employee, you have the benefit; if, however, you are not an employee, you do not have the benefit and therefore bye to equality and contribution according to your own possibilities. If you always have the same income and you are retired, it is the same: nothing, you have no benefit. Then there is the problem of large families, which has been brilliantly resolved in the Commission by an amendment (justly defined by a colleague on the agenda) with which it has been established that there will be interventions in favour of these families since 2015. In fact, it has not been specified at all how much and especially how they will cover the lower income for the State. First of all, I would point out that it is such a vague rule that it is less binding than an agenda. Moreover, curiously enough, it is said that many families will also benefit from 2015 even if, in reality, from 1 January 1015 there will not be the benefit of the 80 euros for families not large; if there is, this will have to be established by another measure, which will have to find cover. Since the cover of this measure is already exhausted with the increase in savings taxes and so on, additional taxes will have to be found. Therefore, it is said that this year we only give the benefits to some people, but next year we will extend them to others, even if at that point there will be no more for anyone! In fact, that amendment is nonsense. In any case, those who are content enjoy it: I stress, however, that we can be politically content, but the citizens do not have any benefit from it. There are other pearls in this measure. Article 6, for example, is not bad. I would remind you that this is an electoral decree, whose aim was not to relaunch the economy, but to achieve a good result in the European elections: this result has certainly been achieved by the main government party. I would point out that it was necessary to make a law. It is often said that fewer unnecessary laws should be made. Well, in this provision there is a pompous article, introduced by decree, because of extraordinary necessity and urgency (if there were no extraordinary necessity and urgency you could not issue a decree-law), by which it is established that the Government presents a report to the Chambers on the fight against tax evasion. The government, therefore, writes a decree, claiming that Parliament converts it into law, in which, so to speak, it obliges itself to do something that it evidently wanted to do. But if the government wants to report to Parliament, why doesn't it? It is certainly not forbidden for the government to send us any kind of documentation to inform us about government activity. The Government does not answer the overwhelming majority of questions, but it even makes a decree-law to allow the catwalk (because this is what it is) to be a report on the fight against tax evasion. But what is the practical effect of this measure? No one, in fact, except the footbridge effect and the consequence that Article 7 can be written that these marvelous strategies will derive incalculable resources from the fight against tax evasion. In particular, 300 million are placed to cover the electoral benefits provided by the decree itself. Then there are other pearls such as, for example, Article 21, with a strong electoral impact, which requires RAI to reduce expenditure. There are certainly margins and there are areas where RAI spends too much. Since the RAI weighs directly on the pockets of citizens through the fee, if the RAI will have to spend 150 million euros less (among other things, you do not understand how you will implement this reduction of spending in the course of the year, also because it is not only the RAI that is required to reduce the expenses), you can do the calculation. Subscribers to RAI are a little more than 20 million and, therefore, there should be a reduction in the fee of 7 euros. Is that a good result? No, because RAI spends less, but the citizen always spends the same and for him the canon remains of the same amount. So, it was another electoral proclamation, useful then to have the covers for the famous 80 euros. Coverages that the excellent officials of the Senate Budget Service have emphasized are insufficient, vague, dubious and, therefore, unsuitable. The President of the Council accused these officials of making such remarks out of personal interest and because they do not like the abolition of the Senate. He has come to the very point: those officials are making technical remarks and he accuses them of personal interests. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the Senate is always awaiting an apology from the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the LN-Aut Group]] , also because the importance made by the excellent officials of the Senate Budget Service is the same then advanced by the European Union. In these days, the European Union, as quickly as possible, immediately after the elections (which is why everything works there too), noted that all the financial and economic operations carried out by the government result in a gap between 9 and 10 billion, which is exactly, albeit in a wider and global way, that detected by the officials of the Senate. Now, it is true that the great information has actually censored this news, making it even an encouragement to the Renzi Government, but the European Union has said the same thing about Senate officials. I therefore expect the President of the Council to apologise to the Senate as such, and in particular to those people who have been involved, or the President of the Council will also accuse the bodies of the European Union of having personal interests, so they say that his measures are not covered. I conclude by stressing that, in order to have an uncertain benefit, which does not revive consumption, passenger and only for some, this measure introduces taxes for everyone, permanent and that they cause a further crisis of our economy, as evidenced by the increase of unemployment, which has reached record levels. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u62	Senator Mauro Marino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u63	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a thorough examination in the Commission, for which I should like to thank the two rapporteurs, Senators Guerra and D'Alì, Vice-Minister Morando and Mr Azzollini, as well as the Commissioners, we have come to this House with a measure which, without rhetoric, we could call extremely important for our country. It is a measure that lies within a process of substantial revision of the tax system that must be inserted - taking up what the rapporteur D'Alì said - in a series of interventions, among which I recall that the law of fiscal delegation is fundamental, which is of parliamentary origin, which is proceeding, even with an experimental innovation, in the parliamentary path, in a constructive relationship with the Government. Well, this decree-law was very broad and rich and starts from an assumption: we must intervene on the strong compression of the internal consumption that characterized or, worse, hit the lower middle classes. This assumption was read in the light of the propensity to increase consumption of the low middle classes, resulting from a marginal increase in income. The combination of these two factors leads to the fundamentally redistributive aspect of the maneuver under consideration. Having said that, partly corrected by what my colleague Mr Malan has just said, the Commission has worked in particular to make the nature of the rule not sporadic, that is to say to ensure that a measure legally limited to 2014 can continue to spend its effects in the years to come, focusing on making structural the character of the reduction of spending in perspective - we could define the revision of expenditure as the nail to which the whole operation is based - and the bonus for workers, as well as a reduction in the tax wedge contribution to work to bring it to a European dimension in 2016, as has been said during the Commission's work. We worked in perspective trying to pursue a mission and to make it clear that this was not a commercial operation. It is our belief, in fact, that, if there had been this perception, there would not have been that increase in consumption by citizens in the face of the marginal increase in income, which has also been witnessed by the first data provided in recent days by consumer organisations. Of course this was a reaction to a fact that we must not forget: in the five years of the great recession we had a decrease in Italian per capita income by about 10%. But I want to focus my quick intervention on the three most interesting tax points that are: credit (so-called IRPEF bonus), IRAP and capital income tax. They have a different specific weight within the decree, but are surrounded by a common red thread, indeed by a single macro-political objective: to rebalance the levy on some assets of great impact both tax and economic revenue. The operation, which represents - as I said - the first significant step towards structural measures, allows a direct increase in the economic availabilities of a group of taxpayers with income from employees up to 24,000-26,000 euros per year; a reduction in the IRAP levy for companies and an increase in the rate on income from capital from 20 to 26 percent. It is clear that a redistributive logic prevails over the prospect - which exists, but is residual for my purposes - that tax increases have the sole purpose of covering the burden of lower revenue. Redistributive logic also means to differentiate qualitatively between types of taxable income and, on given conditions, to start a process of redevelopment of the tax system. A great deal of discussion has taken place in the Commissions on the possibility of broadening the scope of the bonus. It was deliberately limited to a very precise segment of taxpayers, not to repeat what, in hindsight, we could define an error, when, in 2006, a figure similar to the current one was allocated for the reduction of the tax wedge, but spread over a very large audience, ending up frustrating the positive effects making them irrelevant. However, already for them it can be said that it is a direct support to demand with those reasonable prospects of a positive impact on domestic consumption, which are a prodromic act to the magic word "growth." The measure of the reduction of the IRAP will not be the epochal turning point invoked by the enterprises and, however, it is worth pointing out that both the interventions are placed in the wake of the reduction of the levy on the income from work, which is one of the qualifying points of the European recommendations that have arrived to us these days. The selectivity of interventions is already itself a sign of a good political choice. It goes in the same direction, but with greater attention to the construction of a relationship of loyalty and collaboration with the tax, the approved modification on the timing of payment of the substitute tax deriving from the revaluation of the goods of enterprise, previewed in the law of stability. Finally, on the increase in the rate on capital income, I would have preferred a greater weighting of the weight, not only economic, of certain investments, or of certain savings reserves: a small current account or a small-value investment fund are subject to an increase in the levy. One could imagine a relief below which the increase does not take place, but it is true that the rate affects the earned income and therefore, at the current level of the remuneration of the money, involves very reduced increases. I would like to conclude by welcoming the approval of a measure of attention to taxpayers who, under conditions of economic difficulty, did not pay some installments of debit cards, but remained excluded from the more favourable discipline introduced in 2013. For them it is expected a return path, with a installment that however is lost if two installments are not paid. A way in which the State places itself as an interlocutor of the citizen, with a view to improving the tax-paying relationship; it is also a way to put in motion a virtuous circle of trust in the country and its prospects, which is the real bet and the real objective of this important legislative act. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u64	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u65	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is, in my view, one of the most important proofs of the government and the majority in the post-election scenario. It is indeed a measure full of expectations and certainly ambitious, but at the same time characterized by a multiplicity of issues that seem to be addressed in a non-solving way: as if they were expected to mature times, to face everything at the proper time. The recent statements by Deputy Minister Morando on the need to postpone the possibility of extending some of the measures to the Stability Act for 2015, is exactly - allow me, Deputy Minister - in this direction. As I have already pointed out on several occasions, major structural changes cannot take place in a few lines or with a single decree-law. There is a need, always and in any case, for a deepening and a kind of road map regulation that allows both to evaluate the financial availability of the Country and to identify the individual categories targeted of the measures. This is, in my opinion, a sort of governmental rationality that we cannot allow to turn into operational lightness. The metaphor of this subtle line of demarcation must be sought precisely in the extent and relevance of the proposals put forward in the debate. I refer in particular to the extension of the so-called 80 euro bonus to single-income households, and to the extension of IRAP deductions to enterprises and self-employed: measures which are certainly onerous, but which would in fact fill a vulnus created by the same decree, which, in fact, has left a rather large audience of households and businesses outside the door, limiting its parameters to access the facilitated measures. Mine does not want to be a warning, rather a further invitation to reflection. The courage shown by this Government is evident and most likely this omnibus decree represents one of the most evident testimonies. The country has well understood the will and responsibility of this Government, and of the majority that supports it, and remains to look confidently; for this reason I spoke of a test bench and for this reason the invitation to have even more courage takes on a stronger meaning, without returning to the usual financial ambiguities and the vetoes of the budget, so much in vogue during the technical government, but at the same time, without reaching harmful interventions in order to raise those resources necessary to finance the key measures of the decree. I would like to point out, as an example, the extent of Article 22 (1) of this measure, which originally provided that all revenue from the production of renewable energy would be charged an income ratio of 25%. This measure affected not only the production of energy from renewable sources, but also brought an entire sector to its knees. The protests of businessmen and trade associations had to be awaited in order to change the rule. In fact, the proposal adopted in these hours, in my opinion, represents a half-way solution, but it is still proof that alternative solutions can be found together to compensate for ambitious measures and at the same time avoid depressing the productive sectors of this country. From 1 July 2014, the rate applicable to the taxation of financial pensions (increased from 20 to 26 per cent) will also be increased; a measure that will concern only small savers and not even those who have or dispose of qualifying holdings. Despite the attempts to remodulate the proposal, during the debate in the Commissions, it has not been possible to amend this unfair rule that we hope will be amended by this month. The same reflection can be made on the measures that have been accepted on the side of consular services to citizens, in particular as regards the administrative contribution to the issue of the ordinary passport and the increase of the burden for the recognition of Italian citizenship. Nothing about the desirability and the need to simplify the legislation in this area, but I think that a complex aspect such as that relating to the management of services to citizens, in particular those resident abroad, deserves to be deepened in an ad hoc measure, especially if we take into account the delicate scenario characterized by the reorganization of the consular network and a significant mood of our fellow countrymen across borders. It is worth highlighting the existence of our proposals, for example, on the operational configuration of contract workers in our foreign network, to which some of the amendments adopted refer. I believe that this sector deserves to be dealt with properly, without legitimizing regulatory gaps which - anyone who knows the subject well - know that they are already abundant. With this I just want to point out that the need to arrive quickly at the long-awaited measures cannot lead to regulatory legends capable of amplifying the problems and problems of the sector. To confirm the fact that it could be done otherwise, it is worth remembering the article 20, paragraph 1, that it has a reduction of the operating costs of the companies participated not less than 2.5% for 2014 and 4 percent for 2015. On this front, the RAI affair ended with the exclusion of this from the above-mentioned cuts; a resounding retrofront that was achieved thanks to important and virtuous lobbying operations. On these things we had to dare more, thus avoiding to affect other sectors. But we know well that when it comes to participating societies the priority seems to be that of caution (of course I am sarcastic and not intimidated, I have no interest and much less I want to have). On the other hand, proposals such as Article 8, which authorizes the State to cut by 5% the amounts of contracts outstanding for the purchase or supply of goods and services, thus renegotiating them retroactively, is a fault of illegality because there is another measure intended to make cash which seriously harms economic operators. Another point worth reflecting on is the lack of relevance given to the parliamentary debate. One of the last second loose nodes was the TASI tax, with an amendment by the Government; a proposal necessary in order to extend the payment, outlining a clear road map and overcoming the confusion that reigns on this side. In this direction, there were many amendments tabled in the Commission, including those tabled by myself, but they were rejected. In fact, it was preferred to bypass the parliamentary confrontation and wait for a specific measure of the Government with a few days of delay. With a view to simplifying and implementing previous commitments already accepted by the Government, there is also another amendment proposal that I supported, which has not been followed in the referent, aimed at overcoming that rule that any transfer of money, coming from a foreign country and directed to an Italian current account, must be subject to a withholding tax of 20%. But do you realize the absurdity of this arrangement? It's a crazy gabella! The provision was due to enter into force last February, but the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) suspended its entry into force until July. The MEF has reserved the possibility to reapply the withholding tax, if there are no precise indications of opposite direction by the Government. Therefore, the current measure was a suitable opportunity to put back into practice the legislation and finally overcome a medieval leap in the hands of thousands of honest Italian workers abroad. Surely the decree of urgency with omnibus measures is not a good practice to be encouraged; but considering that it continues to be a privileged instrument for the approval of the most important measures for the future of the country, then I would like to emphasize that more could and should be done. In particular - this is an invitation to my colleagues and to the Government - we must avoid that, in the face of some advantageous measures for one category, there are burdens for another. I fully agree that the country's reform must be done as a step, but we do not have the risk that this run-up to the emergency will exacerbate already obvious difficulties, especially when these concern families, unemployed people or businesses, and especially when certain measures are seen as transfers made to individual political groups in order to rebalance the power relations within the Assembly. I shall conclude, Madam President. At this point, the measures already announced by the Government, such as the decree unlocks Italy, represent for us and for the Italians a hope, in which we trust much. We are sure that in that very frame will be given space to the nodes still not loosed by this measure and will want to give shape to that courage, demanded loudly by the Italians and confirmed by the recent electoral consultations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. DI BIAGIO (PI). Yes, Madam President. I will conclude with a reply for those who want to remember the past. I personally do not like to do this, but to those who have recalled the Tanassi syndrome I would like to remind you that this Government of broad understanding has assumed the responsibility, even in the face of public opinion, to repair to the detriment of that Government that had its President of the Council resigned for manifest inability. We're here today to recover that damage.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u66	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u69	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to ask once again for the answer to two questions: 3-00319 and 4-00699, which I have presented to the Minister for Transport, for several months now, on a situation which concerns my territory - the province of Trapani - but which has repercussions on the whole of the regional territory in terms of the lack of economic repercussions linked to the tourism of my region, as well as on the mobility of many people, between workers and passengers. This is the interruption of the railway line connecting Trapani to Palermo, via Milo. In particular, the section that connects Trapani to Alcamo, as a result of a structural failure, has been closed to traffic for more than a year now - to be precise 25 February 2013 - and never restored. The railway route in question is strategic for my province, as it connects it to the airport of Birgi and, above all, connects the two airports of western Sicily. It is a crucial way for the development of the territory, which needs to be strengthened, not interrupted and disbanded, but which, since the problems of the line are of structural type, seems to have been forgotten by the Strategic Infrastructure Program issued by the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports in April 2013. I draw the attention of the Government remembering that, in the course of approval of the bill n. 1149, the Government itself has accepted the agenda of the day G2.88 to my first signature, undertaking to consider the opportunity to provide, in concert with the Italian Railway Network and the Region Sicily, to the restoration of the functionality, the strengthening and the putting in safety of the railway line that connects Palermo to Trapani, via Milo and Calatafimi, and to guarantee the full efficiency of the connections between the airports of Palermo and Trapani, as well as to provide for the reactivation of the railway connections recently suppressed between Alcamo and Palermo, in order to guarantee to citizens and enterprises, together with the reopening of the railway route Palermo-Trapani, via Milo, the full mobility in the province of Trapani and with the province of Palermo. I therefore urge the Minister for Transport once again to reply to the two questions as soon as possible and to report on the real intentions regarding the future of the Sicilian rail route.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u72	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard of yet another arrest of representatives of a link between politics and business in Veneto. The city council member Chisso and the mayor of Venice Orsoni have been arrested for concussion, corruption and other suspected crimes. We in Veneto have known for years that something is not working. We know this because we have seen the hospital of the Angel, in Mestre, built in project finance with an economic-financial plan clearly fake; today private individuals who have competed with capital to that work are guaranteed a remuneration and the losses fall on the citizens. This should have been a warning, instead a myriad of works in project finance are in progress throughout the territory, from the Nogara-Mare to the Pedemontana. Works are designed in all provinces, with a very widespread system. We ask ourselves: who will pay for this? Today, however, we also know something else: this system of contracts and works always sees the same protagonists, always the same entrepreneurs and always the same politicians as sponsors. Already last year we should have heard a clear alarm bell, when Baita was arrested (it was even spoken of the Baita system). Then the Veneto Region wanted to set up a Commission of Inquiry, of which we do not have great results today. On the other hand, we called for a moratorium on all major non-essential public works for the precautionary principle. We cannot think of having 4,000 kilometers of embankments in Veneto and that we are still talking about building new cement, which worsens the hydrogeological risk and bleeds out the public funds of resources that must be destined to really urgent interventions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Today we have another piece of this story, which is becoming increasingly incarcerating on the criminal side. We just note that Mayor Giorgio Orsoni, with the reforms wanted by Delrio, was preparing to become also President of the Metropolitan City, putting his hands on skills for the management of contracts and public spending billionaires and, with the reform of Renzi, would become, moreover, also senator. We really need to bring control back to the citizens. Insisting on the indirect election of citizens' bodies and representatives, which are not chosen by citizens but by parties, involves these phenomena: the spread of corruption where power is gathered in a few hands and the waste of public resources, because the power of ban and conditioning of parties becomes stronger instead of being weakened. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-06-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-254.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.28 a.m.
