ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u9	Senator Airola, on the order of business? AIROLA (M5S). I'm the president of the group. I'll remind you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know, but at this stage it can only intervene on the order of business. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). I am speaking on the order of business, if you will, but still on a very serious issue that Senator Bottici has just informed me. You know that our Commissioner, Mr Bottici, is detained - because it has been so communicated to President Grasso - in Carrara for a request from the quaestor because of the difficulties that there are with regard to the demonstrations. Well, I have been told that the Presidency Council has just met, that it has not merely determined the sanctions. In fact, it seemed that only the debate on sanctions was scheduled on today's agenda, so much so that Senator Bottici said that she could safely leave. But that is not the point; the point is that some appointments have also been voted on in relation to Senate officials. I think now...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u10	[[Brusio.]] Forgive me, but this is an important issue and I would like my colleagues to keep quiet. At this moment we are voting for a Senator Secretary and, moreover, I remember that in the Presidency Council, for the 5 Star Movement there is only Senator Bottici and not others. We will now vote to elect a Senator Secretary, who will probably be a name of Forza Italia, perhaps even investigated, but this is secondary. The problem is that in the meeting there was no representative of the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments from the PD Group]] This is very serious! This is a declaration of democratic and parliamentary war to us: you are putting us on the corner, do not consider us, and we are the country's first political force. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] If you want, the second. Be quiet, be ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Optimism is part of life. AIROLA (M5S). This does not change the result of the meeting at which the 5 Star Movement was absent. These decisions cannot be taken by cutting off us and the citizens we represent. It's very serious! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u11	The next item is the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator or Senator will write on his card a single name. He or she who obtains the highest number of votes will be elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. AIROLA (M5S). If you want war, you will have war! [[Applause from the M5S Group.Experience comments from the PD Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Amati: I would ask you to cooperate in the orderly process of our work. AIROLA (M5S). President, do you have anything to say to us? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call has been made, the ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m., while the Assembly will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I therefore declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal. PETRAGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. (The voting operations followed). The call ended so. I would remind my fellow Members that the ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m., to allow those who have not yet voted to do so, passing through the Presidency and communicating their names to the Secretary Senators. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u12	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, today marks the 11th anniversary of the massacre of Nassiriya and, on the occasion of November 11, it was decided by all the institutions of the Republic to dedicate this day to the memory of the fallen military and civilians in peace missions. We all remember those dramatic hours of Nassiriya, where the most serious attack was launched on the Italian Armed Forces of the post-war period, in which they perished carabinieri belonging to the Army and also civilians. Many Italians have sacrificed their lives in peace operations and today's day is dedicated to their remembrance, with the celebrations that took place, to which the Senate of the Republic joins with the senses of gratitude to all our military even today engaged in so many places of the world to ensure the peace and freedom of the peoples. In memory of our fallen, please observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u13	The President-in-Office of the Council, having examined the incidents in this House during the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 5 November, took the following decisions: Deliberates the sanction of the ban to participate in the proceedings of the Assembly for ten days of session to Senators Puglia and Blund. Deliberates the sanction of the ban to participate in the proceedings of the Assembly for seven days of session to the Senators Santangelo, Taverna, Airola, Catalfo, Bulgarelli, Fattori, Castaldi, Moronese and Paglini. Deliberates the sanction of censorship against Senators Montevecchi, Simeoni and Serra. The sanctions concerning the ban on participation in the proceedings of the Assembly will begin from tomorrow's afternoon sitting on Thursday 13 November. The Presidency also unanimously approved the withdrawal of the previous complaint against Senator Palma. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). Bravo, Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u16	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the note I sent to the Presidency Council, concerning the appeal against the censure measure imposed on me, like that of President Palma, the procedural procedure with which the Presidency imposed sanctions was challenged. Today, with the measures you have announced, you have continued to impose sanctions in violation of the Rules of Procedure. In so doing, you have impoverished the House for the next sitting of a large number of senators who, with their election, represent the Italian people. You can't do that! [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] You must be ashamed of this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u17	Senator Falanga, the Presidency Council has taken decisions. You may disagree, but you cannot insult me.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u18	TAVERNA (M5S). You be the Vice President and have Senator Falanga speak. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is not by chance that I have used the expression: You must be ashamed of yourself. The same was used by President Nitto Palma and, at first, a non-existent sanction was issued, but then this was revoked. This enables me and legitimizes my statement, which I repeat and which - believe me - I will repeat from time to time in my speeches in this House: 'You must be ashamed!' [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u21	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to add another element. If these sanctions are due to hindering the exercise of the right to vote, I would like to point out that I and many others have also been wronged: we have not been given the arrangements of convention that the Government had promised. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, I too have been wronged and I demand, at this point, that there be a sanction for those who have not fulfilled my right! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u24	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, if defending democracy involves seven days of suspension from the work of a Chamber which is deported from any power, then the measure will well come. And, however, I wonder: how can ten days be given for sitting on the ground, seven for standing and five for throwing a book? I wonder: if the progression is this, what must be the next intervention of the 5 Star Movement to take less days of suspension but be more incisive? The throwing of a book in the face of the President of the Senate is a behavior punished with five days; I can understand the tense moment and the reaction of Senator Centinario, however to me it seems more serious than to sit on the ground. But if this is your judgment, the next protest will be equated with your sanction! We'll see what we're gonna do! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition, please tell President Grasso that, if we have prevented the exercise of the right to vote, he has been preventing the conduct of parliamentary work for almost two years! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u27	FACTORS (M5S). I'd like to make amends and apologize. In particular, I would like to apologise to the citizens because, despite everything, we have not been able to stop this mess! So, my apologies go to the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to communicate, always to the citizens, that we dedicate this to them and do not give up and, as Senator Taverna says, next time we will be able to do better. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u30	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I have taken the maximum amount of time. [[Laughter]] for defending our country from drills and private water! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is my fault. So, if defending your country means ten days out, it's good to come. I will be with my citizens, with my people! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u32	You have the floor, Senator Castaldo.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u33	CASTALDI (M5S). Thank you, Gasparro, but my name is Castaldi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Castaldi, I'm sorry. CASTALDI (M5S). Of course. I wanted to thank all the Italian citizens who, out of here, fought in the territories to stop the release of Italy and all our colleagues - because we have all been, even if you have only caught some - who have fought in this House, where we are paid to look at your faces. The citizens out here, therefore, who don't even have the pay, are better at fighting, from the outside, the filth that you mess up in here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u36	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all my colleagues who have spoken that, in addition to expressing our free opinions, we are all obliged, as citizens, to respect the laws of the State, in force also in this House, and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I therefore believe that we will have to refer not only to the requirements laid down in the Senate Rules and adopted by the Presidency Council, but also to the obligations laid down for infringement of Article 289 of the Criminal Code, whose competence falls on the prosecutor's office of the Republic and the ordinary courts. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u39	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to reply to Senator Buemi, who spoke of legality, but just yesterday Senator Fravezzi sitting next to him voted in his place to have the diary. Shame on you! That's a scam for money! Shame on both of you! In that case, zero sanctions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We await from the Presidency, dear President Gasparri, the sanctions for all the pianists in this House, who are cross-cutting, because there are sanctions in the PD, as in Forza Italia, as in all the Groups! And for everyone, zero sanctions! Buemi, be ashamed of you and be ashamed of your colleague Fravezzi, pianist. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Buemi's protests. Comments from the PD Group.]] CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Buemi, I got the video! Tomorrow the YouTube audience!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u42	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I do not wish to call into question the respect of the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that Senator Gaetti, the other evening, has repeatedly requested from the Government, present in this Chamber, a copy of the draft contract concerning the renewal of the motorway concessions to Gavio, without a public invitation to tender and for an amount of EUR 3 billion. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] If the Rules of Procedure are to apply, it should also apply to the other party which provides that incomplete acts which are not appropriate for the deliberations should not be admitted to the Chamber. I wonder therefore: here is the guardian's guardianship? Who will control the controllers who sanctioned their colleagues and then admit pateracs in this Chamber for which we have not been placed in a position to know how a contract was carried out without public warning of the value of 3 billion? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u45	SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Gaspardi. What has happened today serves as a warning to everyone, because today has happened to us, tomorrow we hope that it will not happen to you, but see that it is not a normal situation. These measures were adopted by a Presidency Council in which there was no representative of the 5 Star Movement Group. Gasparri, we have expressed our dissent by not preventing anyone from voting. If this were to happen, seven days would not be enough. Senator Buemi is right to say that these are much more serious things that must be sanctioned in an absolutely different way. The attitude of President Grasso, who sends his protagonists, in this case Calderoli, to carry out the dirty work and then in the dark, so without being seen in the Chamber, makes decisions together with all the other pals who make up the Presidency Council and you, Gasparri, have not even read the reasons for this sanction. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Go fuck yourself! SANTANGELO (M5S). At the moment there are some colleagues who are addressing the following sentence to me: You're gonna shit, and she's feeling it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not feel it because my colleagues are behind them; I would urge my colleagues not to be on their shoulders and not to use inappropriate expressions SANTANGELO (M5S). This, President, is neither part of the Constitution nor of the Rules of Procedure, as it is not part of the Constitution to approve omnibus decrees that you have re-voted for the umpteenth time. I'm talking about unlocking Italy. That's the mess. To each one of you, gentlemen, I have shown your hands dirty of black: those in your conscience, every night, you will have to dream. Those black hands will be the hands that will show you the Italian citizens immediately, immediately. Remember that. And you, Gasparri, president. Look, it's not like I'm scared if you use your own. I'm used to free and normal comparisons. Conclude, Senator Santangelo. SANTANGELO (M5S). Of course. I would ask you, Mr Gasparri, to read the reasons for the decisions taken by the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u48	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, logic tells me that perhaps by presenting incomplete documents and asking to vote on them, we wanted to achieve this. The logic tells me that we wanted to achieve this because President Calderoli himself said that, if that was the case, there was no problem, because an alternative way of voting could be put in place: then, if there was an alternative, we did not prevent the vote. Having said that, I believe that, if we are to detect criminal profiles in the conduct of our parliamentary group, we should also detect criminal profiles from the Government, which has tabled an incomplete amendment to us, where there were even the dots of suspension instead of the numbers due. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we - I say "noi", but certainly the 5 Star Movement did not vote in favour - found ourselves voting on a document in which the number would be placed at a later time. Then I want to explain to the citizens what Senator D'Anna argued earlier, so that they know what he said. It means they told us in here to vote how we could deliver a postdated check. This is the forgery that has been voted on on both sides. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We refused to do so and denounced this impossibility. The result, as happened recently even in a Mafia trial, was that the culprits were acquitted and others were convicted. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u51	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I listened before thanking the citizens. I would also like to express my thanks: boys from my group, yes, that's right, let me do it. I would like to thank this Presidency which has decided to give these sanctions because it is right that this should be done. Try to understand that too! I know, you'll be mad at me for what I'm saying; but usually, in this Italian state you punish those who are in the right and, then, thank you for punishing the 5 Star Movement; thank you for giving all this because it means that we are in the right and we bother you and we will continue to do so until you kick us out of here! So, once again, thanks to the Presidency, thanks to President Grasso, thanks to everyone who has made this decision today, thanks to all of you who are once again giving us the certainty that you have to move on in here and fight you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u54	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, thank you for this fair sanction that has been imposed on those who prevent voting, because it is perfectly right that the rules should be enforced. But these rules should be extended, as Mr Ciampolillo said earlier, and this extension is not seen. I thank you for your duty to give proper punishment to those who interrupt work and those who prevent voting. However, I ask myself and ask you: how come in the first Report, in the first list, my name did not appear, but it appears now, after the newspapers have spoken about it? So, I'm proud to have been sanctioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] from a State that protects itself, exploits the media and uses them at its convenience; from a State that does not deal with the work of Parliament. I am proud and will always be proud in front of my children and posterity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to have received a sanction for having asked for the recognition of rights within this Parliament: the rights of parliamentary debate and not of trust imposed, and the rights to evaluate a decree as harmful as that defined by you unblocks Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , but soon the citizens will see all the consequences! Well, I'm proud of this and thank you once again for sanctioning me, but you will politely clarify why you had this change of opinion between the two Reports and realized that I had been photographed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u57	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that voting has not been prevented, but the vote has been delayed. In fact, the unlocking Italy passed with confidence as it was expected to happen. But we claim the right to resistance; rather, I will say more, the right-duty to resistance [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which was mentioned in the famous article 3 which was not introduced into the Constitution. Since these classrooms are systematically violating the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and no guarantor raises his voice in order to ensure that these rights are respected, we, as stated in Article 3, claim the individual and collective resistance to the acts of the public authorities, which violate the fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by our Constitution. It is the right and duty of every citizen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u60	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware of the fact that my comrades and friends from the 5 Star Movement have said. I would like to make a more general reflection that does not only understand what happened during the vote for the decree unblocks Italy, for which I claim everything I have done and for which I have not been sanctioned. Since the first day of the general election, the situation of my group in the Senate has been very anomalous. Unlike what happened to the House, a hidden campaign began from the first day after the elections, and not even so much, of scouting by the Democratic Party towards the senators of the 5 Star Movement which, wrongly or rightly, were considered closer to the so-called leftist positions that the Democratic Party of the Bersani management intended to represent. From that moment on, depending on the response that the individual Senators of my Group have given, that is to say, what made public the mouthing with the local boss of the Democratic Party and what consequences had that reaction, the scouting campaign continued to arrive at the paradoxical situation in which our Group lost colleagues (who have passed to the Mixed Group, or members of the Mixed Group or other Groups) but I feel frankly blamed for the creeping and continuous action that took place - I repeat - from the first day after the elections of 2013 by the Democratic Party. If, as in the case of Italy, as in the case of constitutional reforms and the reform of the Senate, the majority here in the Senate House intends to continue with the attitude that it wants to provoke, artificially or not, the wall against the wall (I repeat, as I have already said), we will not back down. However, it would be appropriate for this attitude on the part of a dying institution now at the behest of the Renzi ducetto to change. And this attitude can only change if the operations carried out in this House have the same transparency as those carried out for the election of the last member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the last elected member of the Council. The invitation, therefore, that I personally make is to consider in the right and appropriate way the representatives of the 5 Star Movement Group in this Chamber of the Senate as happens in the Chamber of Deputies, where the sale of parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement was not necessary and where who, like me, to the solicitation made by Senator Bubbico the evening after the elections of 2013 said "I'm not there and denounced it publicly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Others in my Group have not done so and we have seen what happened to them and what happened to them. This is the reflection I leave to the citizens and to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u63	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would also like to say my own version. I think there is some confusion in this House. My former comrades, or colleagues (as they say) 5 Stars have all the reasons for this: I don't want to discuss this. But there is the word "method" and the method is the way to represent what we call democracy. Democratically we can also do unrighteous things, just as the use of an undemocratic method cannot be justified by the fact that we do right things. They sinned in the method: the method was not democratic because we were prevented from voting. I regret this and this was their mistake: a mistake of method. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino, Buemi and Bell.]] NUGNES (M5S). That's not true. It's fake. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We, in a democratic system, are also called to set an example because we are the bearers of examples and we must set an example out of here. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino, Buemi, Bell and Sonego.]] I would now like to ask a question. In my speech, I do not want to respond to the provocations of my colleagues in the M5S Group, nor do I want to discuss sanctions. But I want to talk about balance and respect for minorities. In a Senate in which minorities and majorities have very minimal balances, removing ten people means doing something else, not just imposing sanctions: it also means giving yourself beautiful majorities. Therefore, I wonder, for the sake of respect for minorities, if it is possible - I do not know that and I ask you - to hold a vote in this House to ensure that it is less - perhaps two or three - to pay for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u64	No, that's not possible, Senator Bignami. It's not expected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u67	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, in associating with what Mr Bignami has said, I would also like to make a point, because I have heard of scouting and I would like to stress that this House knows very well what the reasons were, because at the time of the debate on my resignation and my colleague Mr Bignami were brought to the attention of the whole House very clearly the reasons why we found ourselves outside the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group. I would like this statement to remain in the record: not one of us has joined the PD Group, as suggested a moment ago by Senator Petrocelli's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u70	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking briefly and I do not repeat what my fellow Members have said. However, I must make a statement for myself, for my own person, because I am offended by the decisions taken by the Presidency Council, both on the substance and in the method, as one of the strengths of our Group is: no one must remain behind. I also claim the same punishment for myself as part of this Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk. [[Protests from the M5S group. Comments of Senators Buemi and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u72	Calm down. Senator Buemi, please stay in your place. Senator Marino, you who are a wise man, be wise.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u73	Senator Campanella, you have the floor. CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would like to make one point. Since I know that the speeches in this House will then be repeated on the web and, therefore, what is going on in this House is being re-proposed, it is right that our vision should also be re-proposed. A short while ago my colleague Scibona said that the motto of the 5 Star Movement was: no one must remain behind. It is true, however, that, for a number of choices that are not dependent on colleagues, but on the summits that are outside Parliament, some - indeed, quite a few of us - have remained not behind, but outside. Having said that, we close the reasoning on scouting, because the problems for which we came out of the 5 Star Movement are all internal to the 5 Star Movement and not external. As far as behavior in this House is concerned, as I have had the opportunity to say directly to them during the events, I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable to block the vote in this House (or even to try to block it) as they did last time. I also believe that MEPs who have been elected on the basis of the idea that the rules are sacred must respect them always and on every occasion. [[M5S Group protests at Senator Campanella's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u74	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00300 (text 2) tabled by Senator Rossi Gianluca and other senators, 1-00327 (text 3), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00338, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00339, presented by Senator Council and other senators, and 1-00341, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, on the future of the Special Steels Terni-AST plant.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion put forward by Senator Rossi, together with the other motions, takes into account the seriousness of the economic and social situation and the complexity of the situation at the AST in Terni. (18.19) (Saints follow). A strong and coordinated intervention of the territorial, national and European institutions, combined with the sense of responsibility of the company, is needed to address with decisive capacity the various critical and socially unacceptable aspects of the case of Special Steels Terni. First of all, in the very short term, we need the balanced and socially sustainable solution of the very hard dispute over the industrial structures of Speciali Acciai Terni, on investments, on the maintenance of the production capacity of the hot and cold sectors and on employment structures, reducing the negative impact and implementing all possible contractual routes, in particular through the use of solidarity contracts, which could also be extended to the induced sector, which has a very articulated composition and is a supporting element in the economy of the territory; moreover, it is necessary to implement also in this field some normative innovations, including, for example, territorial solidarity contracts or direct business contracts of the companies of the induced. Every effort must be made - we ask the Government - to arrive very soon, hopefully tomorrow, at a conclusion of the event, valorizing the many progress made during the negotiations and dissolving the last remaining knots. In addition to this point - which, I repeat, has priority - there are other aspects to be addressed at the same time in the coming weeks, above all in terms of the factors of context and territory. The problem of the cost of energy, in particular, which will be addressed shortly with interventions proposed by the Government, must also find structural solutions in the near future. It is necessary to strengthen the infrastructures, especially those viabilistiche, in order to allow and guarantee rapid connections of the site of Terni with the portualità. On these issues - I also remember for having experienced it personally - a very important programme agreement was made ten years ago, which must now be quickly implemented. The case of the AST also talks about the problem of the Italian steel industry, which is subject at national level to rapid disintegration processes. The story AST follows those of Piombino and Taranto. Italy, the second manufacturing country in Europe, cannot lose - as has already happened in other basic sectors such as chemistry, for example - the supporting structure in a basic sector, because this is decisive for quality and costs. A large part of the Italian manufacturing sector would lose in this way one of the factors of success, but we would also have suffered a devastating impact on imports, destined to grow and to compromise, also from the macroeconomic point of view, the positive import-export balance. In order therefore to give a perspective to the story of the AST must be built quickly a future for the Italian steel industry, implementing all the necessary interventions not to lose the control and the national consistency of the field, certainly making also international alliances, but in a framework of control of our Country. Finally, the story of theAST also has a European dimension. The European rules have contributed a great deal to determine the great criticality of Terni's AST, as is well told in the motion. The question to be asked is neither trivial nor rhetorical: can an alleged irregularity be cured by creating a great trouble? Can this be done in a sector that is the backbone of Europe's industrial economy, when there are very important redistribution processes in the world, at the very high risk of a total European exit from the industry itself? If the answer to this question is a reasonable no, then we must quickly set up a firm action as a national government in Europe, first of all to ask companies to account for their industrial projects, in this case the ThyssenKrupp; Secondly, in order to correct those rules and to make them more flexible in a non-punitive regulation of the productive sectors, which will have to be the strength of a new European industrial policy, an indispensable element of a growth strategy that our country has been asking for for a long time but which, unfortunately, is still missing. I shall conclude, then, by saying that these four aspects (the rapid settlement of the AST dispute, a territorial contract, the national steel environment and European rules) are different but closely interwoven to each other and that there is a need for an important force, an extraordinary commitment for them to be able to dissolve in Europe in the shortest possible time starting with our Government, because this dispute is creating too much damage to a sector and, above all, to many Italian families. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u76	The debate is closed. I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Development, Professor De Vincenti, to whom I would also like to express my opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u77	Madam President, the issue of the Terni Special Steels has long been at the attention of the Government. You will allow me to briefly reconstruct, as in part do the same motions in the premises, some key points of the evolution that this story has recorded. At the beginning of 2012, ThyssenKrupp sold the entire Inoxum division of the inoxidable to Outokumpu, a large Finnish multinational company. Inside the stainless steel division was naturally present, as a strong point, the Special Steel Terni. The Outokumpu designed at the time an insertion of the Terni Special Steels within the complex of the Outokumpu industrial system, presenting an industrial plan that had the consent of the Italian Government at the time. In the summer of 2012, an analysis by the European Commission-DG Comp began to verify whether the acquisition of the stainless steel division by Outokumpu could constitute an excess concentration. The choice made over those months, which then led to the Commission's decision in autumn 2012, is that there would be an excess of concentration. The European market was chosen as a relevant market, against which to judge the concentration, although we pointed out that the relevant market, in our view, should be regarded as the world market, as competition on the world's impossible. On the European market as a relevant market, the European Commission considered the share reached by Outokumpu to be too high. Following this decision, the European Commission imposed on Outokumpu the transfer of AST to another operator. We followed very carefully, during the winter and spring-summer of 2013, the process of transfer; we did not agree with the European Commission's choice of granting extensions to Outokumpu, when there were two offers that could be an interesting opportunity for AST. The extensions granted by the European Commission led to the end in December 2013 of an agreement between Outokumpu and Thyssen, in which AST returned to Thyssen. This situation has raised the concerns of the Italian Government, because Thyssen, not by chance, was at the time out of the irresistible. This led us to convene ThyssenKrupp to a meeting with the Italian Government. A first meeting was held in January 2014 and then, in March 2014, ThyssenKrupp, again present with its central board here in Rome, announced that it had started the preparation of an industrial plan for theAST and that by the middle of July it would communicate it to the Government, territorial institutions and trade union organizations. This was the case on 17 July last when ThyssenKrupp, again at the Presidency of the Council, presented the general lines of the industrial plan, which then, a few hours later, were developed by the Managing Director of the AST, during a meeting with the trade unions held at the Ministry of Economic Development. The plan outlined was based on the finding that, over the last five years, the AST has accumulated significant losses, amounting to approximately EUR 900 million, thus also from the need to recover the efficiency and competitiveness of the AST. To this end, the company stated that it wanted to achieve the objective of recovery of competitiveness, with a strong reduction in costs, both for the purchase of intermediate and semi-finished goods and labour costs, in particular with a reduction of 550 jobs, as well as with the possible prospective closure of one of the two furnaces in the Terni hot area. The Government and the territorial institutions immediately rejected the industrial plan presented by ThyssenKrupp, as we considered it an industrial plan incapable of guaranteeing the productive and occupational future of the AST, since it envisaged substantially a reduction in the production capacity of the AST. Welcoming the critical judgment of trade unions, we invited the parties to immediately activate a discussion table that would lead to a modification of the industrial plan and that would allow a better perspective for the AST to be reopened. The table was unfortunately only able to start at the beginning of September of this year, after the Minister of Economic Development intervened to bring back in the beehive of normal trade union relations a confrontation that on several occasions had slipped into the ground of frontal opposition. Since the beginning of September the comparison has been divided, which has developed on two floors. For a verse the Government has aimed to determine a modification of the industrial plan of ThyssenKrupp vis-à-vis theAST and, on the other hand, has urged the company and the unions to develop the confrontation on the organization of the job and the company's supplementary contract. Between the end of September and the beginning of October, there was a new opposition, a distance between the parties, and the Government tried to bring the positions closer together, proposing a compromise solution on 8 October last, which in our opinion would have preserved the industrial prospects of the company and allowed to find a balance point. That solution was not accepted by the parties and, immediately afterwards, ThyssenKrupp announced the opening of the mobility procedure and the termination of all business agreements. The Government has continued to work on the possibility of reopening the confrontation: on 16 October, in a meeting at the Presidency of the Council with the Region Umbria, the Province and the Municipality of Terni, in addition to stigmatizing the unilateral initiatives taken by the company, has reconvoked the parties to reopen the confrontation. Last 6 November a meeting was held at the Ministry of Economic Development, where Thyssen and the management of the AST, in the person of the managing director, have given availability to a significant modification of the industrial plan, previewing: the maintenance of the productive capacities of the area to heat; the operation of both the furnaces (although the second furnace, for market conditions, has a level to five sevenths of the level of potential production, while the first furnace has full use); investments strengthened regarding the original plan, through the investment necessary to bring the line of rolling, present still today to Turin and stops for years - as you know - to Terni; ulterior possible investments on the area to heat. The same subjects have given willingness to a significant reduction of redundancies, compared to 550 initially declared and 537 of the mobility procedure, and to a strengthening of the commercial structure of Terni of the AST, in order to give outlet of market to a production higher than that initially declared in the July plan. On 6 November last, the company declared that it wanted to maintain a production level of at least one million tons of casting: this guarantees the operation of both ovens. Moreover, the company has accepted the Government's invitation to proceed with the payment of salaries, of course asking - and obtaining from trade union organizations - for the suspension of the strike in administrative areas where, precisely, the procedures for the payment of salaries are to be carried out. On the basis of this availability of the company, the Government has reconvoked for last 10 November the table to restart the confrontation between the company and the unions. In this case, too, we have again found ourselves in a situation of opposing rigidities: rigidities that have not allowed us to fully resume the comparison. Yesterday we called the table again. The company has presented slides, through which it has confirmed the availability to the modifications of the industrial plan, and on this basis the Government has reconvoked again, for the next week, the ulterior center of confrontation. On the other hand, we know that the situation in Terni is tense, so we have again given our willingness starting from tomorrow to a confrontation Government-unions, Government-social partners, that allows us to overcome the rigidities in front of which we find ourselves. Now I think we have to do everything we can to avoid a dangerous escalation. For intellectual honesty, one cannot fail to see that the Government has obtained from Thyssen the willingness to change the industrial plan and this in the interest of the productive and occupational future of the AST of Terni, which is the key point that must be at the heart of all of us. That of the AST is, in fact, a plant of strategic importance for the Italian industry and of great importance for the territory of Terni and for all Umbria. We think that the reopening of the speech on the industrial level is the key step in order to share the confrontation between the company and the unions on the organization of the job and the company supplemental contract, with the objective to contribute to the recovery of efficiency and competitiveness of AST. So far, in the face of this evolution promoted by the Government, we still find a rigidity of positions that does not help to unblock today's dispute and episode, the occupation of the A1 motorway, is a clear example of this. I believe that we must urge all parties - and I stress all - to take responsibility for ensuring the productive and occupational future of this company, this for the good of our country and the workers of AST, which are the first thing that must be dear to us, as well as for the good of the territory of Terni. In the light of my response to the speeches I have heard today in this House, I would like to explain the Government's response to the commitments set out in the motions. With reference to motion No. 300 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gianluca Rossi and other senators, containing five commitments, the Government accepts the first commitment, that of adopting and activating any useful initiative aimed at promoting the realization of an industrial plan by the German multinational which, starting from the framework agreement proposed by the Government on 8 October 2014, foresees and the four points developed in the text of the motion, with the only warning to reformulate the one referred to in point (c) as follows: "to strengthen the positioning of AST, from the commercial point of view, in order to strengthen the commercial network in order to address new markets". The Government then accepts the commitments referred to in paragraphs 2, 3) and 4) of the operative part of motion No 300 (text 2), while in order to be able to accept the commitment referred to in point 5), it asks for a rewording aimed at adding, after the words: "to assess the appropriateness of "to," the words: "a possible involvement of "to." With reference to motion 327 (text 3), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, the Government is willing to accept the first commitment if reworded in the following terms: "to keep the institutional table open constantly" - because the table is already there - "between Government, Regions, local institutions in order to resolve as soon as possible, with a long-term perspective, an affair whose repercussions of an economic, social and employment nature risk causing a strong depressive impact on the social fabric both Umbrian and Italian." The second commitment provided for in motion n. 327 (text 3) cannot be accepted because Decree-Law n. 207 of 2012 provides that you are talking about plants that also have environmental problems that the site of Terni does not present. Even the commitment referred to in point 3 of the same motion is not accepted by the Government because it provides environmental issues that do not arise on that site. The commitment referred to in point 4) is accepted by the Government with a brief rewording, i.e. removing the final part, from the words "in a sustainable way" until the end of the period. As regards the commitment referred to in point 5), it is accepted with the same rewording: the final part is removed, from the words "in a sustainable way" until the end of the period. The commitment referred to in point 6 shall be accepted with rewording by removing the words "preferred" and the commitment shall therefore become: It shall promote initiatives to promote the use of hydropower as a primary source of energy The commitment referred to in point 7 is accepted with rewording: "to assess the opportunity to foresee the use of resources and instruments provided for by the Italian Strategic Fund." The commitments referred to in points 8, 9 and 10) shall be accepted. As regards motion No 338, the undertaking referred to in point (1) of the operative part is accepted. The undertaking referred to in point 2 is accepted by means of a rewording: "to request the European Commission to verify - not to censor - the conduct of ThyssenKrupp with regard to the fulfilment of commitments (...)" The commitment referred to in point 3 is also accepted with a rewording. First of all, we must remove the words "without shyness or hesitation." I can assure the senators who present this motion that there has never been any shyness or hesitation and I am not prepared to hear such a thing. The last sentence must also be deleted from the commitment in point 3: "through the guarantee of additional wage increases already agreed," which is put back to negotiation between the parties. Therefore, there is no commitment of the Government on this point; the Government's commitment is to facilitate negotiation. Finally, the undertaking referred to in point 4 shall be accepted with rewording, which shall consist of modifying the final part of point (a) as follows: Point (b) of point 4) on the guarantee of the strategicity of the site of Terni is accepted. I now come to motion No 339. In the device there is a first commitment in three letters: (a), (b) and (c). Point (a) is accepted; point (b) is accepted with rewording of the initial part as follows: "to assess the possibility of adopting modalities"; point (c) is accepted with rewording: "to intervene on the energy supply side, exploiting the resources existing in our territory and promoting the use of renewable energy sources in such a way as to reduce the relative costs". The undertaking referred to in point 2 shall be accepted. The commitment referred to in point 3 shall be reworded as follows: There is the addition of the word "perhaps". The undertaking referred to in point 4 shall be accepted. I now come to motion No 341. The first commitment of the device is accepted with rewording: "to take an incisive and complex action aimed at removing the unilateral initiatives of the company and to make every effort to avoid layoffs". The commitment referred to in point 2 is also accepted with rewording: "to route a comparison with ThyssenKrupp's top management and AST's management in order to safeguard productions and volumes, as well as the unity and integrity of the site and employment levels". The reformulation is minimal, as is clear to the presenters. The commitment referred to in point 3 is welcomed with a profound rewording: • to call for a debate in the European Parliament on the interaction between competition policies and industrial policy, in particular in the steel sector, in order to boost the competitiveness of European industry • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • The undertaking referred to in point 4 shall be accepted. Finally, the commitment referred to in point 5 is accepted with a rewording which is as follows: "to prevent the possibility of new street clashes between law enforcement and workers", eliminating the remaining words.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u80	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to draw the Secretary's attention to the motion 1-00339 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I have not grasped the Government's will on the commitment referred to in point 1 (b) : "to assess the adoption of alternative contractual arrangements, with respect to redundancies, such as the adoption of solidarity contracts, adopted for the establishment in Germany and which, on the other hand, have been refused for the establishment internano".
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u81	The Government proposes to modify the initial part of the commitment in this respect: Â assess the possibility of adopting Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â The reason for this request is simple: solidarity contracts can be adopted under very precise conditions, which have not yet been presented in this situation. The commitment should therefore be to assess the possibility depending on the evolution of the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u84	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to put before the Presidency a formal request for urgent convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to intervene, given the regulatory vacuum in the event of disciplinary sanctions, in order to prevent the Senate Chamber from meeting in the next few days with a large number of absent senators. Since the Rules of Procedure say nothing about the implementation of sanctions, it would be appropriate for the Junta to regulate this too, providing for a postponement between the two, thus ensuring the presence of the various parliamentary groups in the Chamber. Basically, it is the request that Senator Bignami also made in her speech, but that I felt to formalize in normative terms. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u85	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u87	You have the right to do so. Colleagues, being almost 7 p.m. and - I imagine - wanting to conclude the examination of these motions at this evening's sitting, I invite all those who will speak in an explanation of vote to settle accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u88	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all, I believe that the approach taken to our work is correct and that, in any case, the commitments requested by us to the Government have been welcomed. These are not dissimilar commitments from those put forward by the majority of the groups in this House, which means that perhaps - this is an appeal and a consideration that I address to the government - it is worth making a big voice, in a positive sense, in order to enforce this industrial emergency of ours at European level. We know, and we have well understood, from the debate, Madam President, that this is not, contrary to what the European Commissioner says, an exclusively and typically Italian issue. We have shared European choices over the years and Europe must now share the difficulties of an industrial system that we all need to benefit from. I believe that a choice to punish the Italian steel industry simply by supporting multinational industrial structures is certainly not in the interest of a government that is spending on the revival of the country and clearly would not benefit even that credibility on which Europe continues to insist on European citizens. We have asked the Government to engage appropriately on this front and welcome what Deputy Minister De Vincenti has said. We know that work is not difficult if we all get together; instead, it becomes impossible if we break and split. We also need awareness from the company that this is not a country that has started an industrial disposal road, for which there is remissivity and for which the choices of ThyssenKrupp can be disjoined with respect to the national interest. Speaking in a simplistic way, we do not share indications that can lead to a nationalization of the enterprise; no, this is not the market solution we want. We believe that workers' rights should be guaranteed and that a company's right to work in competition with other companies should be guaranteed. In this regard, we will check that the government's commitment goes in the direction, for example, not only for ThyssenKrupp, but for all the rest of the industrial system, the lowering of energy costs: it is useless to think of remaining on the market if the energy costs, in addition to those of work, are so high. I still insist with the Deputy Minister that there can be no solution that overlooks the social structure and the social reverberations that the dismissal of so many people has within the ternan structure. Solidarity contracts, as has been said before, can only be activated under special conditions; it is up to the Government to manage the consultation table so that, if not all people are to be recovered, these conditions are verified. It cannot be accepted that ThyssenKrupp is interested, simply closing the plant and moving productions abroad, only on the basis of a profit. We must remember that Terni's steel industry, like the others in the country, guarantees us autonomy and independence. As was mentioned this morning in the debate, in the years before Italy was reproached for having made redundant steel production. Today we have the plants in closing; we are ThyssenKrupp, German industry, owner of the Terni steel works. All this cannot be seen from a provincial and local perspective: it is not a problem of Terni, it is a national problem; it is not an Italian problem, it is a European problem. Mr Vice-Minister, I am not making it long; that is what you have to say to the European Commissioner: the question is not resolved if it is confined to an Italian national problem. We do not want to follow the same approach as Italy to managing situations such as Mare nostrum. Italian problem? No, we are not the missing frontier and if this is the approach of the new European Commission, the Government shows that it interprets, at least in the last part of the European semester, the interest of the nation and not to be remiss in positions that are in no way respectful of those who work and of those who, respecting Article 1 of the Constitution, make their part of citizenship; ternana, Italian and European. [[Applause from Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u89	. I declare closed the vote for the election of a Senator Secretary. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes in the adjacent Pannini Room. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Aielloni, Airola, Albano, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bianco, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocca, Bocca, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardinals, Carinna, Carraro, Casini, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Cerellini, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Ciampolillo, Ciaffiolini, Cinnellì
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u92	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, you mentioned the work done by the workers, but I am sorry that you did not mention the work done by the company by sealing the entrances of the gates with welds. We're always on the same page. In the light of the debate in this House and the latest statements by the President of Federacciai, it seems clear to me that the problems facing us are serious. If one really wants to give a solution to the resumption of the activity and production of the AST of Terni, the first thing to do must be the total and active commitment of the Government in the negotiation, possibly with a role that is above all on the side of the interests of the workers. So far, from what we are aware of, the Minister delegated to the negotiation has played a role as a compressor or, at best, as a supporter of the unacceptable proposals that the company has submitted to the negotiating table. We agree with FIOM and the workers that we cannot agree with the industrial plan presented by the AST yesterday, because we believe that this plan is weak, ineffective and does not give real guarantees that the prospects for steel production will actually recover. Moreover, the amount proposed by the company still in yesterday's day is completely insufficient: it is limited to an industrial plan of four years programmed by the company, but presumably with these appropriations the production could stop after the first two years. The closure of one of the two ovens is feared: it is a symptom of a lack of programming and will to continue production in Terni. On the part of the trade unions present at the negotiating table there is the greatest willingness to resolve the issue, because it is the union's primary interest to do the interests of the workers, but it is clear that blackmail usually used in disputes by employers to create divisions among the workers, as is happening at the AST. The role of the Government should therefore not be to foment such divisions, proposing, for example, to bypass the trade union representatives, putting workers in a situation of conflict with their fellow workers - I assure you that you will not succeed - and even allowing, as I said before, the company to continue to provoke, such as the welding of the entrance gates. Therefore, since so far the results of the negotiations have been almost null, so much so that next Monday a delegation of trade unions and workers will go to Germany to deal directly with Thyssen, we believe that it must be directly the President of the Council to take charge of the issue, to be considered as a national issue that goes beyond the AST of Terni, in order to give a solution to the production of steel as a strategic theme for the industrial development of our country. This must be the commitment of the Government: a commitment to guarantee the workers, their dignity and their struggle. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u95	Rossi Luciano (NCD). Madam President, I shared and wanted to endorse Mr Gianluca Rossi's motion, along with my Parent Company and my colleagues from the New Right Centre. We have done this convincingly by reading a concentration of history and truth that I invite you to pay attention by entering into the merit, because they are lived stories of truth and work. Within this sharing there is not only a city, but a history of excellence of Italy, Umbria and the city of Terni. It has been said and written precisely and punctually that this company accounts for 20% of the gross product of our Region and 30% of the export of Umbria. They are percentages of excellence, they are numbers, but inside and behind them there are stories of women, men, of commitment, of work, of companies, of families: something that deserves attention that I do not think has been devoted to this topic so far. The strong and clear message to the neocommissaria Vestager, a kind Danish lady, found an inadequate and inadequate answer, probably being uninformed on the subject she was dealing with. This is a European problem, and I will explain that it is also a national problem on which we should have a unity of intent (and, let me say, a unity of motions) where possible. It is a European problem that the Government, with Minister Guidi and Deputy Minister De Vincenti (who, unlike someone else, I think are doing a great job), must represent at national level and, above all, at the European Commission. Our premier, Matteo Renzi, should go directly to Merkel and remind them (this is a passage that deserves attention) as was granted to ThyssenKrupp this historic company of excellence. It should be remembered in ways and terms: it was almost a gift. I remember that the profits of the first year were sufficient to offset the entire cost of the operation. This must be remembered to the German friends, who, thanks to the complicity with Outokumpu, are in fact putting in order two important plants (the ones of Bochum and Krefeld) that in the undersigned program were to see a progressive reduction in terms of production, while they are seeing investments, attentions and productive capacity. This cannot be accepted. This issue has rightly been highlighted. Attention to growing nervousness, as Vice Minister De Vincenti has said, because there is an exasperation dictated by the conscious injustice that Terni, Umbria and, let me say, Italy are living. We have firmly signed motion No 300 (text 2), of which Senator Gianluca Rossi is the first signatory, to whom I am bound by the origin, hoping - in this sense I would also like to give a message to the Government - that we can also succeed in determining cohesion in these few minutes, because as long as Italy presents itself with different motions it will not go anywhere. We must have the capacity and courage within this House to find a great sharing to be represented in Italy and, at the same time, in Europe, in which we want to remain, but not as gregarious and not as marginal in the steel sector as well. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u98	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I have read your motions and if your response to the crises of Terni, but also of Taranto, Ferriera di Servola or Piombino are those motions (maybe with a bit of baton to the protesting workers) then I can say that you really did not understand the question, because you give a wrong answer. And why the wrong answer? Because, first of all, you did not focus on the fundamental problem that translates into welcome to Europe, welcome to the European Union, the same European Union that told us a long time ago to close Bagnoli's site because it produced too much steel. In whose name and on whose behalf did the European Union tell us? In the name and on behalf of ThyssenKrupp, which at the time consisted of two steel giants, one German and one Dutch. Welcome, therefore, to Europe where the interests of the largest and not those of the citizens are made. This is the first point to make. The second question you never ask yourself is: what is the purpose of a larger foreign buyer in buying something smaller? It's simple; it always happens this way: the big eats the little one and emptys it of its technological content maybe moving it elsewhere. What a case! That's exactly what ThyssenKrupp did with Terni's steel mills: it moved noble productions to Germany and Mexico and left the less noble ones. But of course no one asked that question. Definitely not the distinguished scientists of the Ministries put it on. Yet, it is a rule of the market: you must never give up the main business. Think about the IBM case. When he sold the PC sector he did so because it no longer represented the main core of his production: it was marginal, there was no longer a technological content that could be given to the Chinese of Lenovo. It was just a bitch and it was sold to someone who could secure production at a lower cost. That was a good operation. On the other hand, giving the Terni steel works first to the Finns and then to the Dutch-Germans was not a great decision. But you had to think about it first. Secondly, with the content of your motions, you do not even know the reality of Terni because you do not even know how many people work there. Yet it is a positive whole number, finished. The PD, in his motion, wrote that it was 2,900. The Mixed-SEL Group has written 2,900, but also 2,600. How about an average? The North League said 2,800, as well as Forza Italia. The precise number is 2,303: that is the number, adding the managers, the managers and the workers. If you want, there are 549 other people working in subsidiaries. The sum makes, however, a number different from all those you have listed. I'm sorry, but you don't even know how many people work in the plant. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But it is the content of these motions (especially in the version modified by the Government) that is chilling, because it sums up an industrial vision that is a mix between video game and dinosaur, in the sense that you see a reality that is frozen; it is that. Your vision, your perspective for a steel plant is the same, as if this production could go on forever. This is a completely wrong perspective, because it means completely blocking the technological process. In this way you place resources and initiative in order to maintain one production, regardless of all the others. This is, in itself, a wrong policy, because we too should have learned from previous situations that obstinacy to do this is a waste of resources and, in any case, does not lead to the maintenance of employment. An example? The Alfa Romeo factory in Arese, which occupied 19,000 people. Now there are zero people working on it. On the other hand, FIAT, from 1977 to 2013, fed 7.6 billion in state subsidies: it took the money and still fired the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella and Bencini]] So the answer (this is a change of paradigm that you should have) - I throw it there, maybe you catch it - is not to maintain employment, but to safeguard income, which are two profoundly different things. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's learn how to use words exactly for their meaning. Said that it doesn't make sense to maintain a site industrially when the very nature of this site brings it in another direction, what our motion wants to convey to you - I hope someone has read it - is an impetus forward, because the alternative to a blocked situation is a perspective, that is an exit strategy (I at thirty I want to be there), and a path with which you get to that position. This is the work of the politician, who must not be that of the Commissioner or the entrepreneur who says how a plant should be run: this job must be done by the entrepreneur. The State has another function and you, with these motions, abdicate to the function of State and improvise state entrepreneur. This is also fundamentally wrong. The state must give the idea of where to go, it must create the frame. The entrepreneur is either inside that frame, or he gets out because he is no longer competitive. The story is full of companies that went out because they were no longer competitive, or they reinvented themselves, like Suez, the society that ran the homonymous channel, which now obviously doesn't manage anything anymore because the channel was nationalized. It is not that she is dead; now, unfortunately, she is profiting on public water together with Lyonnaise des Eaux. But this is the symptom of how an entrepreneur should not always be there to tell the state: do this to me. The entrepreneur must be the one who adapts or, even, creates the tendency and the others go after him. That's the entrepreneur. These crises must also be seen as opportunities. That's the point of the motion, and you haven't caught him at all. On the contrary, the proposed reformulations are even more reactionary. You seem to me to be Matrix's agent Smith: the guardian of Matrix's orthodoxy, the one who intervenes every time there is a small anomaly of the program. That's not how it works. Another symptom that cannot work like this has been mentioned previously by the Undersecretary: in the last five years Terni's steel mills have lost 900 million, of which 150 in the last year alone. This is to be compared with a figure which was made clear to me by the then and still commissioner of the Piombino steel works: I am referring to the wage bill that Terni's steel works pay to all their workers (always the famous 2.849), equal to 67 million. I lose 150 million and pay 67 of my wages. The Commissioner then called an immoral company that lost more money than it paid for its workers. In fact, the paradox is always the same, in the sense that the company would pay more to pay people to do nothing and close production. From our motion the whole part in the area of health and the environment has been removed, as if the issue did not exist; indeed, it has been said that on the Terni site environmental and health issues do not arise. This, however, is false, because Terni is one of the most polluted cities in Italy: to say it are, for example, the Higher Institute of Health or the Studio SENTIERI (National epidemiological study of the territories and settlements exposed to risk from pollution). In particular, in both cases the pollutants identified are - always casually - those related to the processing of alloy steel, that is those steels that have inside them of the alloy materials, that are usually noble metals, the so-called heavy metals, that give the steel all the characteristics that you want to ask for: chromium, for example, for stainless steel; thorium, molybdenum. All these metals are present in the air and in the soil and it cannot be said that this is not directly related to the steel plant: to ask therefore to remove from our motion these parts is - from my point of view, but not only from my point of view - environmental negationism: deny a problem, knowing that it will recover again. By now we have heard what the government has said, but you may still have a moment of resistance and responsibility. So I invite you to reflect, try reading motions and devices: realize that, in the end, a company must be responsible for what it does, it must be environmentally compatible. There is no sustainable cost concept for a company that ultimately poisons us and all our descendants. In the eternal conflict you have to put two things on the plate of the scale. That's not what I'm saying that the company has to close down, but what I'm saying is that within that company 2,849 people work, but there are 123,000 others all around, who don't work in there. Then my invitation is to put both questions on the scale: who works there and who suffers. Another historical example is the Eternit site of Casale Monferrato: people died more outside than inside and most people were outside, not inside. This, however, was never weighed down because there was another mentality at the time, which should no longer be. Yet the reasoning remains the same. The other consideration concerns the extra-health costs that are always considered, but never valued in this type of reasoning: once again they do not consider themselves and make a purely industrial analysis, which is a wrong thing. The last thing I say is, instead, to the gentlemen of Left Ecology and Freedom. Despite the name of your party and group, the motion you have tabled is of an industrialistic nature. You say, "More steel, more work." It seems like a five-year plan of Stalinian memory, let me say, which goes completely in contrast to the position you take compared to the Ilva of Taranto, where you are in favour of closing the hot area. I would ask you to buy at least a minimum of consistency: if the hot area is closed, should this be done only on one side and not on the other? In the name of what do you make this total separation of reasoning between one side and the other? I don't want to suggest the answer, but at least Think about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u99	Senator Martelli, I invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u100	MARTELLI (M5S). I'll finish. We ask you, therefore, to read our motion and then to vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u103	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, steel production in Italy is not an issue that ends up on the front pages of the newspapers, except when there are unfortunate facts such as those of last week, with the clashes and with the workers who have met an excess of zeal from the police or when, as is happening in these hours, highways and the media are blocked incredibly. In other circumstances, as I said, steel production does not make headlines, it is not the subject of debates: there is no competition, from this point of view, with issues such as the reform of the electoral law, with the last proclamation of the day. Instead, steel production is very important in our country. Italy is one of the world leaders in this sector, with three large production units: Terni, Taranto (Ilva) and Piombino. These are very important realities, of long tradition, which, together with the entire production of European steel, are subject to competition in this case too in Asia, as well as - there is the risk that they will emerge - of additional producers. Well, in such an important, strategic sector, everything must be done because what manages to survive the difficult competition, the crisis that, well or badly, invests, albeit to a different extent, the whole Planet, so that at least those who manage to survive these very difficult obstacles, evidently created by the market, do not find themselves the victims of a too restrictive interpretation of the regulations against competition, or that, in particular the Italian plants, are not penalized for the benefit of plants, for example present in Germany, of the same large company. Therefore, it is very important for the Government to take action, as we request in our motion, to facilitate an agreement between the company and the trade union parties, but also for the Government to take action in the European Union, even if this, I repeat, does not make the front page (but does jobs), so that the approach can be changed. One cannot think of considering an excess of dominant position the fact that a company is a leader in Europe, when in the global world the competition is of much bigger giants who benefit - for example, in China - from all kinds of facilitation by the state, in countries where the right problems that we do on the environment are completely ignored (of course the abuse of dominant position in China is not even a known word). We must ensure that Europe enlarges its horizon and does not punish those who try to be large enough to compete at the global level. I think it is important that we have had this debate. Sometimes the motions give a little 'the feeling of having filled one morning, in this case one afternoon, but in this case it is important to give the Government a strong support and a strong stimulus to act, both for the part of course that concerns Italy and for the part that concerns an international action. This is a vital issue for our country. It is one of the few industrial sectors where we are still a significant and important reality: we must have a strong position. The government must not consider it a secondary issue - it is not an ordinary trade union dispute; it is not an ordinary crisis, although all crises are worthy of great attention - and it must find a solution that is not a buffer or compromise, perhaps to keep someone calm today and next week, but a strategic solution. Steel production in Italy cannot be treated as a secondary fact: it must remain in Italy, it must progress in order to be competitive and it must also be given a way for this sector to survive without suffering unreasonable penalties, which may be for the benefit of other European countries, which perhaps make less proclamations but which manage to be more influential in the decisions of the Union. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u106	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, I believe that the debate we have held on this day on the future of the AST plant in Terni is an important opportunity to focus the commitment of Parliament and the Government of our country on one of the strategic sectors of Italian manufacturing. We are talking about a sector - it has been recalled in the course of the debate - which employs 70,000 employees, 34 billion turnover, two percent of our country's gross domestic product. A strategic sector for these numbers, and a decisive sector to maintain a strong presence of our country's manufacturing in global competition, every day increasingly whirlingly exposed to the winds of increasingly challenging competition. We discussed Terni, one of the oldest and most important realities in our country; a reality in which hundreds and thousands of workers are involved. A plant that produces 40% of the national production of stainless steel flat laminates, within a national supply chain, which uses this type of absolutely historical and indispensable material for our country. The meticulous reconstruction of the long past and future labor of this plant, which we have read in the various motions, beginning with that of the Group of the Democratic Party, illustrated by my colleague Senator Gianluca Rossi, and which was testified in the reply by Deputy Minister De Vincenti, who followed and continues to follow with great tension and passion this delicate and meticulous work, gives us the idea that our country, the Government and Parliament have decided not only to follow the very serious social impact of this serious event of industrial future. The tensions of the last few weeks, which have also manifested themselves today, with the workers who have once again come to the streets, give the clear sign not only of the fact that the workers do not intend to surrender - and to them goes our total solidarity, complete and absolute, as far as they are doing in keeping up such an expensive mobilization for themselves and their families - but also give the idea of a commitment, at whose head are those same workers, as well as the Government and Parliament, so that we can build a sustainable future, from an industrial point of view and future prospects, for the Terni plant. This job needs to find an outlet in the next few hours and days. Vice Minister De Vincenti has announced here the convening, since Monday, of a further attempt and I believe that there are contents and ideas so that we can achieve a positive result. These are the ideas and content contained in our motion, which we will of course vote on, which not only go with a view to maintaining the employment base. I would like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who have concluded their speech by saying essentially that the wish to close that plant at the bottom is in some way reasonable and in things, that we will continue to work, until the end, not only to maintain those levels of employment, but above all to maintain an integrated, innovative production capacity, the result of the modernization of the plants and an effort towards research and development, an adjustment of the commercial network and the sale of products, so that there is, not a future assisted for that plant, but a future competitive for that part of Italian steel. The commitment of Parliament and the Italian Government, of which we are very clear, is not enough. Europe needs to make its voice heard on this single aspect of the corporate crisis, beyond the unhappy jokes of Commissioner Vestager of recent days. We need that on the subject of the future of the European steel industry, and in particular the Italian steel industry, for its role as a whole in Europe, for the very serious crises with which we have been struggling for years in this sector (from Terni, to Piombino, to Ilva in Taranto, the largest steel plant in Europe), the action plan, the action plan for the revival of European steel, does not remain a dead letter, it does not just remain a good document, but is a document followed by concrete proposals, commitments and investments. It must form a substantial part of the 300 billion investment announced by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, in order to speed up the process of innovation and competitiveness of the European and therefore Italian steel industry. In fact, there is the theme of innovation and the proper functioning of the internal market. There is the relevant theme of the environmental sustainability of production. There is the theme of access to raw materials and the cost of energy. These are, therefore, complex issues through which the future of the Italian steel industry passes and also the Terni plant, which we have dealt with here. We need - and we say this to the Italian Government in order to take charge of it, but we know that we are breaking through open doors and speaking with absolutely sensitive ears - precisely in these weeks that are at the end of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, that the European Union itself plays an active role, and not only in being a formal guarantor of competition. The situation of the Terni plant is the symbol that Europe played an active role, putting hands and feet when it came to setting a limit to Outokumpu who wanted to detect Terni and there was a problem of increasing market share. We call for Europe to play an active role also in the economic direction and in the conduct of industrial policies, which can no longer be merely national, but need to feed on a truly integrated Community vision. This is the debate we have had today. This is Terni for us. It is not only a great challenge to maintain the thousands of jobs and the solid future of a busy and industrial city such as Terni, but also a piece of industrial policy, the future of the Italian manufacturing industry to which we believe we cannot and should not give up, in a logic never of conservation, but of strong innovation and revival of competition, to which our country can return to look with confidence and hope. For these reasons we will support the motion tabled by the PD at the first signature of Senator Gianluca Rossi. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u107	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I would ask the first signatory and the other presenters of motion No 300 (text 2) if they accept the rewordings proposed by the Government. Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, we welcome the proposed reformulations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote motion No 300 (text 3), tabled by Senator Rossi Gianluca and other senators. It's approved. GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, since we have been confused, we are asking for counterproof. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. Senator Lucidi, do you accept the Government's proposals for rewording to motion 327 (text 3)? LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for the separate vote on the motion, because we accept the rewording proposed by the Government in points 1), 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and we are asking in any case for the vote on points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposal which have not been accepted by the Government or which we do not accept the rewordings. In essence, we are asking for two votes on the motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If there are no comments, we shall proceed to the separate vote on motion 327 (text 4). Barani (GAL). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Barani (GAL). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would point out that the first part of motion 327 (text 4), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, including the premise and points 1), 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10) of the operative part, was voted by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion 327 (text 4), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, do you accept the government's proposals for rewording on motion 338? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President, we welcome them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 338 (text 2). Barani (GAL). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 338 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Do the presenters accept the rewordings proposed by the Government on motion 339? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 339 (text 2). Barani (GAL). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 339 (text 2), tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Pelino, do you accept the rewordings requested by the Government on motion 341? PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). We welcome them, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 341 (text 2). Barani (GAL). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 341 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u108	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a Senator Secretary: [[Senators present 259 Senators voting 259]] Senators got votes: [[Scoma 74 Mussini 37 Vacciano 11 Vaccari 3 Zin 3 Scilipoti Isgrò 2 Cardinals 2 Rockets 2 Cerons 2 Missing 5 White cards 99 No cards 17]] I declare Senator Francesco Scoma elected Secretary, to whom our best wishes for good work go. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u109	Colleagues, we wish to socialize in the Chamber an important event that took place this afternoon: as part of the space mission "Rosetta" with Italian technology, the lander detached from the module and arrived on the comet. It is an important event that I hope will unite us all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u112	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, because of the dignity of my vote, I would like to stress that I cannot consider my vote to be missing, so I ask that it be listed with the others! PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, Senator Centinario, we'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u115	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Even today the pianist's prize goes to Senator Milo, who again voted the motions for Senator Falanga. We are always waiting for sanctions against the senators of those groups that are not the 5 Star Movement. Wait!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u118	[[Brusio.]] I would ask my colleagues, senators and senators, to leave the Chamber without making too much noise. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). It's a shame! Take action! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo, please, you've already had the floor. Sit down. Please, Senator Favero. FAVERO (PD). Thank you, Madam President. I asked to intervene to express closeness and condolence to the family of Brunello Canuto, who was killed in Crevacuore this morning in the province of Biella by a landslide near his home. At the same tragic event another person was seriously injured and I hope, indeed, we hope, that he will recover soon. The situation in Biella and Biella is serious. The streams are exundating and many roads in the valley of Sessera are closed. Firefighters, civil protection and mayors are on the ground and are working tirelessly. In the last 12 hours 115 mm of rain has fallen in the Alps between Piedicavallo and Sabbia (Vercelli), then, throughout the Alps. The Elvo valley was also hit and many roads between Occhieppo and Sordevolo were closed. Some houses have been evacuated. All hilly areas of the territory are at risk of landslides and are monitored. There is fear especially in the valley of Mosso, where the Strona stream has swollen. It is still alive in the inhabitants of the area and not only the memory of the terrible flood of 1968 that caused 64 deaths, of which 58 only in the area of the Strona valley. One hundred factories were damaged and there were 30 billion major damage in the factories. The companies have been closed down. The data tell us that in the last 20 years almost a thousand people have died because of the hydraulic and geological dissent and Italy has spent about three and a half billion euros per year in management for the single emergency. We hope that the measures in Italy will work, employing the more than four billion so far not used faultily to maintain the territory and face the hydrogeological failure and clean up the waters. After the debate in this House on motions for resolutions on the risk of hydrogeological disruption, we need a real change of pace in order to ensure that the words follow concrete actions. The Province has asked for the state of calamity. High schools are closed tomorrow, precisely because of the dangers associated with the closure of roads. Fortunately it no longer rains and, therefore, the state of alert has fallen to yellow, but I believe it is necessary, after hearing also the Region, the timely recognition of the state of calamity for the whole area. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u119	Thank you, Senator Favero. The Presidency supports and regrets that this House has been somewhat distracted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u122	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the tones, methods and words used by Mr Di Battista yesterday in the House with regard to the Mayor of Carrara Zubbani. We expect more and better from a Member of Parliament and, in the first place, institutional respect for everyone who carries out a public function. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u123	No, it's okay. Senator, speak to the House. At the end of the session, we always hear of all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u124	[[Comments of Senators Lezzi and Donno]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). What disturbs those who still believe in democracy and the honor of the institutions... [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u125	Senator, speak to the House. Do your three-minute surgery and Senator Lezzi coming out will decide whether she wants to stay in or out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u126	[[Protests of Senators Lezzi and Catalfo]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). As I have already mentioned before, compliance with the rules is simply an illusion in this House. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). He always has to make one attack a day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rules are right that we all respect them. I ask senators and senators to let Senator Buemi speak to express their opinion. [[Live comments from Senators Castaldi and Ciampolillo]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I express my solidarity with the Mayor of Carrara Zubbani and my unconditional support for the action that is taking in that territory, contrary to those who aim to demolish the institutions and prevent the recovery of that territory from being carried out. [[Live comments from the M5S Group at Senator Buemi's address]] The responsibilities must be established by the judiciary, but it is certain that the Mayor of Carrara is not responsible for a work built by another institution and to which its responsibilities do not exist. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] You guys are instrumentalizers. [[Liveful and repeated comments from Senator Lezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u127	Senator, you can hear your voice outside of this House and not that of Senator Lezzi. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u128	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Come on, Zubbani! Come on, mayor! Come on, get on with it! [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and FI-PdL XVII. Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Buemi's comments at the address of some Senators of the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u129	Senator, everyone in this House has the right to express their opinion. Don't worry, we'll assess everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u130	[[Live Senator Lezzi's comments at Senator Buemi's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u133	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to say that my Group is doing its own draft law No 1670, pursuant to Rule 79 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-350.ana.u135	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 November, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.46.
