ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u4	VACCIANO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u6	The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u9	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, we are again asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1119, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 734, 845, 903 and 1067.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u16	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are examining presents very sensitive aspects, given the matter being dealt with, in which interests are expressed which may at times seem to be of an opposite nature. At the beginning of this speech I would like to recall a consideration that Franco Abruzzo made, trying to distinguish a kind of two schools. On the one hand, there is a school that could be called American, which wants an almost guardian press of powers and, therefore, also of the judiciary. In this sense, one can recall the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, according to which Congress cannot enact laws to restrict freedom of speech or of the press. The other school could be traced back substantially to the French Revolution; in this regard we recall point 11 of the Declaration of Human Rights and of the citizen, according to which every citizen can speak, write and publish freely, except to answer for the abuse of this freedom in the cases provided for by law. Our order, configured over the years, comes to the bill at our examination, on which we are going to intervene today. The general consideration I wish to make is that in some ways the norm we like as it is structured, because basically the great result that is achieved with it is that we can finally distance ourselves from Rwanda, Iran, Vietnam, Burundi, North Korea, Sudan, Laos and Syria, that is, from all those countries where almost 150 journalists are still held today. The outcome, i.e. the elimination of the prison for journalists, is a fundamental port of call for civilizations: one overcomes that legacy of fascism which provided for the most serious form of criminal sanction against an activity such as that of the journalist who, at times, is not easy and can reach issues ranging from communication to information to the truth of the facts. Indeed, freedom of news, freedom of opinion is, yes, above all, a freedom and a right, but it is also a duty. And the changes made to the bill on defamation have grasped the very essence of this principle, because basically the institution of correction has been exalted, thus giving the offended party the possibility to restore, albeit within the limits of what can be done, a right denied. Of course, the correction does not save the goodness of a person, because often the only publication unfortunately creates that smoke so people think there is also the roast. The current system of communication is very fast and sudden and does not even allow time to sediment an information or a news: it is enough to launch a news, which may sometimes even be defamatory, to make it remain engraved in the minds of people. With this text, as we have drawn up it, we want to try to settle for one way or another the interest in freedom of communication and the right to information and, on the other hand, respect for the right to good repute. But another key issue has also been dealt with precisely by the changes made. This is the dimension we call crossmedia, because in the third millennium something has actually changed in communication: in recent years there has been a really sudden incentive and it is precisely digital communication. There is not only paper; there is not only printed, but all the part related to the world of the Internet network, blogs, which is difficult to control. It is a difficult world also because, in some ways, reading news about a daily newspaper, in the press allows you to have the time to analyze it, comment and criticize it, while on the Internet the news is spread in a very fast time and, passing through exchanges of communication, becomes no longer filterable. It is therefore also difficult to trace the origin of the information. It is therefore important to use all the appropriate tools to ensure that news is not practically sculpted on the Net, but that there may be the possibility of making adjustments and changes. I think that this measure has tried to make an effort to achieve a solution that is as acceptable and as appropriate as possible. It is clear that the excellent one does not know where he could be and, as they say, he could be the enemy of the best, but I think that basically we must also take into account the problem of the right to report and to have news about the interventions on justice. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the difficult relationship that sometimes exists between justice and the press. It is another difficult issue to which this measure has sought to provide the first pieces of a solution. We would like to recall a consideration that Adolfo Beria of Argentinian in 1980, when we were talking about the relaunch of the Constitution and about national and regional justice and press committees. In that place he made some considerations that I think should also be mentioned here. I quote: The relationship between justice and the press has two faces: we all see the ugly face and there are people who do not miss the opportunity to denounce the disastrous effects of freedom of the press applied to justice. The accused, assisted by the presumption of innocence (and not guilty) within the palaces of justice, is put to the pillage, thrown to the most vile curiosities outside the judicial classrooms; the judges influenced and upset; the criminal instincts strengthened by the spectacle of the crime, brought by the press before the eyes of all. The Leviathan really has morbid curiosity, sadistic instincts and so, through the press, satisfies them on the unfortunate that circumstances, the case sometimes, put before him. The need for a limit is sacrosanct; it is the perennial requirement of the defense of the individual and of a sphere of the private, against the public, the collective, which in this case assumes one of its heavier and oppressive forms. Here you can see the balances of these two opposites, which is not easy. It was discussed in 1980 and even today, more than thirty years later, we are still talking about libel in half the press. This means that the subject is open, delicate and sensitive, and perhaps a lot of work will still have to be done. We as a Group of the North League have tried to make our contribution and some of our amendments have been accepted within the text. We have helped to try to improve a text that we consider to be just a principle in the analysis of a problem that is not easy. In this sense, we have already stated that the Northern League Group will vote in favour of the measure, hoping that this issue will not be closed in a drawer in the future, but will always remain alive and fed up with new issues. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Scavone and Compagnone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u19	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with is particularly sensitive as it concerns both the fundamental need to be able to be free in the action of information to society and to the citizens and the equally fundamental need to defend the goodness of the citizen and his personality. This draft law has therefore tried to pursue a reasoning that has long been on the agenda of politics, i.e. to make an effective standard, applicable and, at the same time, not excessive in relation to the problematicity of behaviour. The first result is to have exonerated from the norm the prison sentence, a penalty that is difficult to apply for crimes that essentially concern opinion, and to have introduced sanctioning elements that must effectively punish a behaviour that does not respect, during the execution of a fundamental action as it is the information, the individuality of the people and, in particular, the truth of the facts. The removal of the detention penalty, on the one hand, and the introduction, at the same time, of a material, economic sanction of some importance and of a rule that makes the fearful quarrel more difficult (i.e. the intimidating action towards those who carry out a fundamental democratic function such as the printing activity) make the legislation that we introduce today an important historical pact on which the Group For the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE expresses itself in a favorable way. Certainly the problem linked to the relationship between information and the rights of the individual, of the person needed an update regarding the new technologies, the new tools that are now available to the information and that we define the Network. Therefore, the need for an update of the legislation has arisen. At the same time, however, we note a certain difficulty in taking effective action to prevent and sanction behaviour which has nothing to do with information requirements and which tend to alter the image of citizens, taken as an objective by those who want to achieve results not of information and truth but of delegitimization. In particular, with regard to the political confrontation, we have present the very unscrupulous use of the Network and the profiles that appear in the Network through blogs and anything else. However, one step forward has been taken and we welcome it. We believe that this is a regulation that comes, although late, to fill a big deficit that in recent years (even in recent months, for the truth) has posed politics, public opinion in the face of a question: how to hit behaviors considered sanctionable without exceeding, at the same time, with a sanctioning legislation substantially inapplicable. From this point of view an important step has been taken, dictated by the need to give the country a new legislation. I regret the need for a further transition to the other branch of Parliament. I hope that no further changes will be made and that we can quickly give the country modern legislation inspired by principles of civilization which, at the same time, effectively affect those who use the media in a distorted and non-professional manner. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u22	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on is - in our view - a nerve that has been discovered in the regulation of our communications system. Too many times in the past, even recently, we have actually witnessed the construction of real mud machines, attacks often detrimental to the dignity and goodness of people. For this reason, a new law was indeed necessary; however, it was probably necessary to build a wise and thoughtful law that was able to balance the defense of the defamed subjects and, at the same time, the indispensable defense of freedom of the press. In our opinion, this text is not particularly wise or particularly thoughtful and allows the exercise of a pressure on the press and also on the web that sometimes harms the indispensable principle of freedom of the press, up to imagine a sort of presumption of guilt on the part of journalists. I mean, it's like whoever wrote in a newspaper did it in order to slander. From this point of view, it seems to us a worse remedy than evil. There is a positive symbolic element, as was pointed out yesterday during the general discussion here in the Senate, namely the abolition of the prison for journalists. Madam President, this is essentially symbolic because, fortunately, in practice, there have been almost no journalists in prison in Italy. The symbols, however, have all their indisputable importance and therefore, in our opinion, the cancellation of the prison for journalists remains a very positive fact. However, we fear that in this case this right rule has been used as a kind of fig leaf which covers a number of very serious aspects and problems, which represent exactly the reasons why we will vote against this measure. For example, the upper limit for capital damage is for the vast majority of journalists who are too high, even prohibitive. The journalist's profession has changed considerably since ten years ago the process that led to today' s debate began. In particular, today for precarious journalists, freelancers and those of small newspapers too high a financial penalty is even more fearsome than prison! To get a confirmation just talk to any street reporter, who carries out his investigations in many territories of our Mezzogiorno. It is clear that the damage should have been commensurate with the economic possibilities, also because otherwise we end up benefiting the great publishing groups, the journalists of the great newspapers, who of course can afford to face the threat of capital damage, at the expense of those who will no longer be able to do so. Another matter of great concern is the right of correction. It is quite clear and fair that those who feel defamed should have the opportunity to rectify and to see their correction published with the utmost clarity; this is even sacrosanct. But why deny the journalist accused of defaming the possibility of replying? Why deny him the right to confirm and prove the accusations made, perhaps establishing that the correction without comment closes the matter while the one with reply becomes the subject of proceedings in court? What we imagined, however, is a mechanism that, from our point of view, is too rigid. The rules on rectification then acquire an openly censored value when they are applied to online newspapers, which probably deserved a more in-depth and organic discussion. In this case, in fact, the correction must be published within a short time and must be accompanied, at the request of the interested party, by the cancellation, the sites and the search engines, the defamatory contents and personal data. The problem, however, is that we are referring to a rule on the right to be forgotten, which, in our opinion, has nothing to do with what we are talking about today. Therefore, in the absence of references to the intervention of a magistrate, it is the direct interested party who decides whether the content of a website is to be considered more or less defamatory towards it and therefore to be deleted. It seems to me quite obvious, so much so as not to need too many words, the contradiction of a rule that entrusts the person concerned with the judgment on what can defame him and what can not defame him instead. Yesterday, fortunately, the House intervened on an aspect of the legislation to remedy a flaw that seemed obvious to us, correcting the text that came out of the Commission and establishing that those who use the complaint as an instrument of intimidation incur, unlike what happened in the past, real and unrestrained sanctions. Indeed, it would have been completely absurd that the possibility had been left to file a complaint, perhaps for millions of euros, forcing those who work and do this job to withdraw not being able to put on the field, because subjected to a sword of Damocles so strong and sharp, no other hypothesis. However, although the House adopted some amendments which actually improved this very serious aspect, it would have done much better to approve some other amendments, for example those tabled by us during these days, which were much more incisive and which with much more clarity would have avoided this undue pressure. We are very sorry - I have to say - that the amendments by the Left Ecology and Freedom, in the end, unfortunately, we voted on them alone, in the total loneliness of this House, without even the comfort and support that we would have expected from the other oppositions. Therefore, as I have tried to explain, we shall vote against this law. We will do so with regret, because we also think that regulation would be necessary. As in this case, we must never speak of a real lost opportunity: that of building a serious and effective defense against the very real risk of being defamed, without damaging the principle, for us absolutely indispensable, of freedom of the press. We could have introduced a more modern and more balanced law on a sector that is actually very sensitive. This law, on the other hand, has preferred to take another path: to limit, gag and make more permeable an exercise of the right of criticism which, in our opinion, is a cornerstone of democratic states. For these reasons we cannot accept this legislation. We will vote against and we intend to continue our opposition when the law returns to the House, where we hope that the elements of improvement that the Senate did not want to put on the field can be introduced, at least there. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, we are in an explanation of vote and I think it is right to stress first of all the efforts made by the Commission and then by the House to find a shared solution, which is always difficult to identify when the matter seems to be of basic simplicity and agrees with all the theoretical objectives: the protection of freedom of the press, which is essential; the possibility for journalists to write freely, to carry out courageous investigations, to denounce the misconception, to contribute with criticism to making the country grow. On the other hand, however, we all agree that there is a limit to this freedom, consisting of the honour and prestige of citizens, entrepreneurs and politicians, who may at times be the subject of defamatory press campaigns that destroy their image and often do much more harm than a physical attack on them, since it destroys their life and reputation. We have heard in the debate that, not only on printed paper, but also today through search engines on the Internet, defamation runs around the world and is difficult to recover. I am opening and closing a parenthesis in this regard: I am very sorry that the amendment that takes charge of Internet site operators to delete in a reasonable time the offensive and slanderous information against citizens has been rejected, leaving the citizen instead the burden of going to check the content of thousands of sites, to find out where these sentences have been reported, which may be a crime to his own detriment. The representative of the Government, Mr Ferri, said that he would agree, but that the rule should be clarified: we hope that it will be clarified quickly. When I close this parenthesis, I said that it is theoretically easy to agree, but it is practically very difficult to find a balance. We have found a balance, which seems to me to be shared by everyone, on the no at the prison, that is not to hit with a prison sentence the journalist who would be responsible for such crimes or, as we have seen in recent times, objectively responsible for one thing written by another, as director of a newspaper. On the other hand, we have laboured on the issues that remain open, such as that of the daring quarrels: what happens if a rich and powerful subject has money to spend and attacks journalists, putting them in trouble, intimidating them and preventing them from exercising their function? Or, vice versa, what happens if a publisher, a buzzer of information, who takes it out on a citizen and makes a defamatory campaign against him, has money to spend and therefore is not interested in the financial penalty, because he is willing to pay what is to be paid to continue in the defamatory action? These are two important issues that need to be resolved. In the text at our examination, was it found? As in all recipes, the "ingredients" included in the text of the bill should lead to a balance between the two requirements. As in all recipes, only in the end will you know whether the product is of quality or not. Once the House has finally approved the text, it will be the case law that decides and judicial practice will therefore check whether the balance we think we have achieved will be useful and whether the new text will have offered a satisfactory response to the perennial duel between freedom of information and the need to protect the dignity of citizens. We believe that the balance has been achieved and that is why the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u28	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, as has been repeated by other colleagues in the Senate who are also not members of the 5 Star Movement, in a country like ours, which was notoriously classified, in the last ranking of Reporters sans frontières, in 2014, at the 49th place for freedom of the press, behind countries such as Namibia, Ghana and Botswana, a legislative intervention aimed at better regulating the right of correction in all cases where the press, periodically and not, is responsible for defamatory statements towards individuals, as well as political exponents, even reporting facts not corresponding to the truth, seemed to us a reasonable operation. As has been drawn up in the Committee on Justice and then submitted to the House for its approval, although with some concern to which I shall refer, this seems to us to be a balanced intervention, which, on the one hand, allows people who consider themselves to be defamed or who have to contest the truthfulness of facts, as they have been reported in the press, to have a correction and, on the other hand, ensures that newspapers and individual journalists in good faith, through the use of the correction, can repair the damage related to bad information. Of course, there is still a concern about the time limit, perhaps too short, of two days from the request for correction. This is a circumstance that we have raised, even with an amendment, which has unfortunately not been voted in favour of by this House. Two days may perhaps be too few; it is easy to think of holiday periods or special circumstances, in which evidently the editorials, especially those of the small newspapers, not already the editorials of the great newspapers, may be in difficulty in responding to a request for correction in such short time. In any case, the overall system seems to be reasonable. In addition to the protection of the individual citizen, our parliamentary experience also bears witness to the need to exercise the right of correction. And I'm referring to one last story (which won't be the last). I was particularly impressed by what happened two weeks ago when we debated and voted on the so-called jobs act. Our parliamentary group (and not just ours) has expressed its dissent in animated, but civilized manner. Well, on the online versions of national newspapers we have read some titles. I refer in particular to a newspaper that starts with "Huff" and ends with "Post" (the beginning was also almost pleasant on our part), where facts were reported not corresponding to the truth, such as the launch of coins towards the Presidency or the launch of books (it was the Rules of Procedure) towards the Presidency; facts that, as is known, are not true or are not comparable to the so-called "Grillini" (the "Huff") as at "Huff" (...) Posts like to describe the parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement. Well, then there would have been the case and it will be the case, but, as far as we are concerned, there are countless and daily occasions in which to exercise the right of correction, beyond the political criticism that obviously can and must be made, even against the 5 Star Movement. However, when we write the false, then we must intervene in a balanced and fair manner and, if we do not respond to the request for correction, even with the pecuniary sanctions provided for. Article 2 provides for a change of sentence for offences of insult and defamation, modifying the relevant articles of the penal code. Here, too, we believe that it is right and proper to turn the sentence from detention into a pecuniary sentence, both to protect the freedom of opinion, which can be carried out in every situation (both in the press and on the Net), and to avoid the instrumental use of the complaint - and we know that this happens too often - aimed at limiting the freedom of opinion and the press by those journalists who still manage to exercise it. On the point, however, we would not want decriminalization, that is, the transformation of the sanction from detention to pecuniary, to induce someone to underestimate the seriousness of what remains a crime. For this reason, we must point out to the House - I say this in a fun way - that just a few hours ago, last night at 23.02 p.m., Mr Francesco Storace, speaking of defamation, launches a tweet on the Net (obviously commenting on what had happened yesterday just before his tweet), where, tagging the undersigned, he writes, "it is difficult to find people more infamous than you", then cancel and "vilipendio". Now, the "voi" is evidently referred - I imagine - to the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement. Then, with all the understanding for those who live moments of difficulty (humanly we could also be close to him), if Mr. Storace wants to intervene in the political debate on defamation by making slanderous tweets at 11 o'clock in the evening, perhaps it is necessary for someone, perhaps near him, to explain to him that the content of these tweets is to be meditated. We wouldn't want him to be jumping to look for the application of the new crime of defamation, which doesn't include a prison sentence, but still provides for fairly heavy fines. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] However, be careful: the advice that Mr. Storace should receive, in our opinion, it is good that they do not come from his party colleague and vice president of the Senate Gasparri, who in turn with Twitter does not have a good relationship. We have already stigmatized the inopportunity and the unhappiness, to want to be merciful, of the tweet of Senator Gasparri with reference to the minor - thirteen - fat. We add other unhappy episodes, in which the use of social media has been really unwise by those who play such an important institutional role. I refer to a 14-year-old who, for a television show, was slandered: his parents were called demented in a tweet by Senator Gasparri (I refer to Marco Colarossi). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps it is appropriate that awareness of the danger of using social media is the cultural heritage of each of us and, above all, of those who hold such institutional positions. We hope that to Mr. Storace some explain that, to date, those who support the repeal of the crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic is the Group of the 5 Star Movement, who was the first to present a bill in this sense (followed by the one signed by Senator Gasparri) and who in the Chamber invited to a vote on the amendment aimed at repealing sic et simpliciter, that is, completely, the crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic. So maybe Mr. Storace has the confusing ideas and it's good for someone to explain something to him calmly, without leaving with another tweet that can hurt him. Speaking of the subject, I would like to remind you of Article 3 on Internet defamation. We have proposed a deleterious amendment to this article, not because - that is what I have just finished saying in the test - we underestimate the defamatory potential of using the Internet (especially with the widespread spread of social networks), but because Article 3, in essence, does not add anything to what is already in the availability of the judiciary in the matter of punishment of defamatory sentences. Also on the same seizure or obscuration of individual pages of websites, or possibly blogs, there is already copious jurisprudence of merit and legitimacy. Therefore, under current law, the judiciary already has the necessary tools and the party offended the possibility of defending itself. We do not see the need for this article 3, which damages should not do with reference to the freedom of opinion that can be expressed on the Internet (we will monitor it), but adds nothing. I see my time is running out. It is a pity that there has been no courage in the adoption of amendments amending Articles 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, in the matter of the recklessness of the dispute, and Article 427 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which condemns the reckless plaintiff who used the complaint for defamation precisely for intimidation against the press. Too bad that the amendment passed in this Chamber provides for the judge's right to determine the costs of litigation in the case of a civil servant or to sentence the plaintiff in the case of criminal proceedings, when, on the other hand, it would probably have been more appropriate to leave the text of the amendment, as proposed, which provided that the court should, it may not. Unfortunately, the experience of the courts with regard to the application of the condemnation for the recklessness of the dispute teaches us that, very often, this rule is not applied, precisely, in the courts. Therefore, an opportunity has been missed to establish a principle that must not have derogations, that is to discourage and punish... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, I'm finishing, ma'am. I was saying the principle of discouraging and punishing those who use civil or criminal justice for intimidation and threat to limit freedom of opinion. Having said that, I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u31	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the measure we are examining comes from a parliamentary initiative that takes inspiration, indeed largely copies the same articles, as they had been written in the last parliamentary term, in this branch of Parliament. It was not possible, then, to complete the work and, once the measure returned to this branch of Parliament, in the Commission we were able to recover some situations that were not properly considered by the House. What is the philosophy of this provision? There are two aspects that need to be highlighted. The first aspect is that it has been possible to guarantee the protection of certain rights, in particular the dignity and honour of persons, not by resorting, as always, to the criminal sanction of the prison sentence. This shows that it is possible not to always resort to this sanction, but that it is possible to reserve the criminal sanction of the prison sentence to those situations that actually find no other possibility of protection, and this possibility has been tested through the identification of other guarantee instruments, such as correction, at the time when it is regulated precisely the way in which it is to be carried out. Then there are some aspects, such as the right to be forgotten, which Senator Buccarella referred to last, on which we are lagging behind the debate at European level, which is already ahead of us in Italy and we have to address this problem. Of course, Senator Buccarella is right when he says that there is no sanction in Article 3, because it is only for the satisfaction of the principle of the right to be forgotten through the judgment of the judge. You will recall, however, that in the Commission the Government and the rapporteur had made a commitment to find a sanction and I abstained, because the text that had been voted on was mine, from proposing a possible sanction. The other aspect which raises some concerns in this measure is that it has raised the eligibility threshold for the so-called fearful dispute. Mr Undersecretary, both of us have had years of experience in the judiciary and it will agree with me that the fearful dispute is good to apply in trade relations, when it comes to cases involving economic issues, but when it comes to assessing the dignity and honour of people, it is not right to raise the threshold of the fearful dispute; and even a concept should be strengthened: who is it? How can the citizen make a prior assessment of what will then be, in the judgment, the evaluation of his behavior? Whether he believes, justified or not (Senator De Cristofaro spoke of lawsuits, but also in the civil process), to make an assessment of self-defense of certain expressions, should we punish him? I still have the illusion that in this country there is freedom of access to justice, while we are creating, by placing a series of stakes, problems of access to justice. One of the characteristics of the democratic state is freedom of access to justice, because only one judge, only one third, only jurisdiction can guarantee the effectiveness of rights. We have made a considerable contribution, as the rapporteur and the government can testify, to the formation of this measure, although we have difficulties in accepting that some corrections that have not been wanted, according to a method - be careful - which is repeated day by day. The relationship between majority and opposition must be based on the way in which politics is to be carried out. Forza Italia, thank God, does not have a regimented position of logic of opposition. Forza Italia reasons in terms that the law is always a composition of interests, but the compromise that politics must seek cannot be at a low level, it cannot have as its aim the affirmation of its point of view; it cannot be a compromise that has the aim of achieving any solution provided it is corresponding to the interests of both parties. The compromise serves to achieve, as Pietro Barcelona said, the general interest, the interest of the citizens; therefore, each of us must keep this objective in mind. So, I do not explain certain behaviors such as the attempt of the amendment that was taken out yesterday (I know and appreciate the rapporteur, probably not his fault), because that represents a conception of the policy of overwhelming the majority over the minority, the attempt of those who believe that the majority can do what they want: but that is not the case. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Look, I also had clashes with the Minister of Justice when I was Undersecretary for Justice, because I believe that each of us, regardless of our political membership of the Group, must feel the sensitivity to relate to values. But what values? Not values as long as they are (each of us can be Catholic, Jewish, Islamic and so on): there are values that are dictated by the Constitution in our system of values and principles. I cannot but reason in this matter too, taking into account the principles and foundations of the Constitution: the dignity of the person, protected by Article 2; the call of Article 3 to ensure that all institutions commit themselves to achieving those rights which Article 2 recognises, equality. This legislation tends to achieve those objectives through a balance of two values in the field: on the one hand, the sanction for the journalist is achieved without touching the principle of freedom of the press and freedom of criticism; but, on the other hand, it is also necessary to guarantee the person offended in his own dignity to have that protection of his right without there being the concern to be exposed, for the simple reason of addressing the judge, to a fearsome quarrel. These are the assessments that would have led us, in a different climate, to a vote in favour, because 90% is a measure that we have carried out in this and in the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u32	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u33	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). If we abstain, it is to denounce this way of acting and those rules that have caused a minimum of imbalance that we should always avoid. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u36	CAPACCHIONE (PD). (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are journalists, few units, which a certain vulgate places in the category of privileged persons, who are automatically enrolled in a caste of rich and powerful influencers of public opinion. There are journalists, in greater number but statistically irrelevant, let's say some dozens, who scientifically use news of dubious origin, of poor reliability but of very clear function for the purpose preordained to defame the political opponent or the entrepreneurial competitor own or of those who provided that false information. There have always been, for the truth, and not only in Italy and not only in the most recent history of Italy. There are journalists, the vast majority of the 100,000 members of the professional order, who work under increasingly precarious conditions, underpaid or unpaid at all, less and less employed in the editorial work on which, in turn, falls the weight by now unbearable of a hard work at the desk, work that journalistic has less and less. The former care very little about the criminal and civil consequences of a professional error in which they will hardly incur. Even the latter, in truth, does not care much about the sanctions for defamation, since they are included in the compensation agreed for the discredit campaign. All the others remain, the many others who believe in the constitutional function of free and correct information, who put the profession at the service of the community, in many cases at risk of their lives, in Italy in the regions oppressed by the mob power and on the fronts of war, where they push without any contractual or insurance cover to document tragedies that otherwise would remain unknown. They are journalists who work so much and who, like anyone who works so much, can make mistakes: without malice, running into an injury, perhaps pressed by the haste to close a service in good time, and in some cases also due to negligence. They are the recipients of this reform of the penal code and of the rite, they are the recipients of the norm that cancels the prison for journalists and introduces, instead of the detention, financial penalties of various sizes: the highest, up to 50,000 euros, only against those who do wrong dolly, those who deliberately omit all forms of control. Journalists ascribed to the second category, that of the stutterers, who survive only by virtue of the not always effective action of supervision of the professional order and whose fate, in truth, very little interests us. In the Committee on Justice and then in the Chamber we have spoken with substantial changes on the text approved by the House, mitigating the amount of financial penalties, introducing the possibility of replying in the correction, if it contains elements of documentary falsehood, providing for ancillary sanctions only in the case of relapse, introducing - and it was now - the punishment for those who present a complaint for only censorious purpose: also this, daily life for those who seriously do the journalistic profession and element of serious obstacle, given the costs of a judicial procedure, the journalistic activity of denunciation and investigation, today more than ever with the economic crisis that is kneeling even ancient and prestigious newspapers. Is it the best of the reforms possible? Not at all, because many prejudices stand up to journalists and the free press and because the temptation of legal censorship is hard to die. Much still needs to be done: from the decriminalisation of defamation to the protection of professional secrecy, in line with the press laws of the entire Western world. We have tried, but the times are obviously not yet ripe, even if those of the past legislature are farther away, when they actually wanted to gag journalists, danger not entirely averted and that will come again when it is time to discuss telephone interceptions. This reform, with the cancellation of the prison, was due and no longer postponed. It is, instead, the starting point to discuss - without more delays and delays - the rules that must regulate the information on the web: starting from the competence of the courts, which here has found no room for approval, until the management of the archives and databases of the newspapers. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u37	I beg your pardon, Senator Capacchione, but it is very difficult to listen with this buzz in this House. Please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u38	CAPACCHIONE (PD). These discussions will not be without regard to the fact that, while Italy today says tirelessly goodbye to a fascist rule, the world of information travels on other tracks and on the platforms of the most important social networks, it enjoys the protection offered by the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, that is, the most total and incensurable freedom of expression. It is a value in which the PD firmly believes and that is why it will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u39	Before we proceed to the final vote, I would like to say that the C1 coordination proposal has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I forgot to explain it, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Law No 47 of 8 February 1948 to the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the matter of defamation, defamation by means of the press or by other means of dissemination, insult and conviction of the plaintiff, as well as professional secrecy. Further provisions to protect the slandered person shall be made with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be authorised to make any further changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Thus, draft laws nos. 734, 845, 903 and 1067.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u40	The next item is the joint debate on documents XXIII, Nos. 2, 3 and 4. The reports have already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Mirabelli to explain. [[Brusio.]] I would ask all the senators in this House to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u41	Madam President, the reports have already been distributed. It would become very long and complicated to present them in their entirety. I think the decision taken by the Senate presidency to bring into question such important issues related to the fight against the Mafia... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u42	Senator Mirabelli, excuse me for interrupting, but I have to tell the whole House not to force me to suspend the sitting. The subject we are dealing with is important and delicate, so I ask everyone to lower the tone of their voices. Anyone who has to speak chooses to leave the Chamber. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u43	As I said, I believe that we are about to have an important debate today and that the Senate has made an important choice to spend a day discussing what the Anti-Mafia Commission has produced over the last few months on the fight against organised crime. We are calling into question three reports approved in the Anti-Mafia Commission by all the members who took part in those meetings (and then I will add a passage on that). We have approved three documents which I believe are relevant to the fight against the mob. I am referring to two in particular: one concerns the way in which we ask Europe to use its tools to combat organised crime, the other is on the specific and important issue of the witnesses of justice and their treatment, also in the light of a verification of the functioning of the current laws. We then call into question a document produced by the Anti-Mafia Commission in view of the elections that have recently taken place and those that will take place, which tries to give the parties and lists some indications to put the same lists in safety with respect to the mafia infiltrations. I believe that these are three important issues, and I would like to thank the presidency of the Senate once again for a choice that is in some way innovative and irrational. Historically it is irrational and innovative that the Chambers discuss the merits of the documents produced by the Anti-Mafia Commission. We have done so on the reform of the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of Goods Confiscated from Organised Crime; we are doing so today on these other issues. I think it is an important fact that sends out a clear message: the entire Parliament and the Government make the fight against the Mafia an absolute priority that must be treated as such. Beyond the right demand for clarity on the past, which is rightly in the attention of the inquiry, the media and the political debate itself, we have worked and tried to work in anti-mafia - and today we are proposing documents in this direction - to form proposals starting from two principles. The first is to verify and understand better how organised crime has changed in this country, how it equips itself, unfortunately in negative, to have more opportunity to act, what relations it tries to maintain with politics and how relations with it change. After verifying the changes, we tried to verify the limits that the anti-mafia legislation in this country continues to have or have been produced by the changes of the mafias. Today we bring to the attention of the Chambers these assessments and proposals for reform on important issues, as we have done - I remember - on confiscated property and on the reform of the agency. These assessments and proposals are already the subject of work by the Commissions of both Chambers and to the attention of the Government and I believe that in the near future we will be able to produce an effective result compared to the need to change many of the things related to the current treatment of confiscated property, which has many limits. Today we are talking about two documents, in particular, which I will not be dealing with on the substance, but which I want to look at. Today we are presenting first of all a report on the policies of the European Union to combat mafias. I believe that we could not pass through the Italian Presidency of the European Union - which is also why it is worth the debate we are having today - without any intervention on this point. There is a serious issue concerning the adaptation of European legislation to the fight against mafias because today mafias have no borders. Today the mafias act and intervene without looking after the borders and, on the contrary, the different European regulations can benefit the mafias. Let me give an example: if the preventive measures, the aggression against the assets of the mobs that we have put in place with the seizure and confiscation of assets do not apply in other European countries, for example, there is no provision for the preventive seizure of the assets of the mobs, it is clear that the mobs go to invest in other European countries and it becomes more difficult to counter them. It is therefore necessary for the issue of conflict and aggression to be addressed in terms of European battle. Just as I believe there is a problem related to the possibility of crossing databases and having a stronger collaboration between police. Every day - even in these days on our way to Messina - we find that the link between policies to combat mafias and the European Union is an important issue. Just yesterday it was explained to us how the Mafia is organizing itself to infiltrate heavily into European agricultural funding with absolutely innovative ways that, however, presuppose a total absence of controls. So we must also operate on this front. This is the point of the very full document presented today by the anti-Mafia Commission on the European issue. The substance, however, is what I mentioned. The one at the mafias cannot be the battle of a single state or that one fights in one state. Italy is a country that has a very effective anti-mafia legislation; we must ask other European countries to acquire some of our norms, just as we must acquire some norms from other European countries, first of all those on self-recycling. A second report which we propose and which I would like to focus on concerns the witnesses of justice. We have seen in the course of the Commission's work that too often people who decide to testify against the mafia are in an objective situation. The difficult situation in which the same witnesses and their families come under the protection regime must be changed. There is a need to rethink the legislation as a whole. Others after me - in particular Senator Lumia - will speak better on the substance; I want to make a summary of document XXIII, No 4. It proposes regulatory changes that must be used to encourage those who want to testify against the mafias by trying to ensure that those who testify do not necessarily have to find themselves in a regime of protection as heavy and hard as that which many witnesses of justice today live. Thinking of legislation that does not expose witnesses to justice in such a strong way is one way of achieving this. Ahead of these two reports (documents XXIII, Nos. At the end of the debate we will propose two resolutions calling on the Senate to approve the lines set out in them, and we hope, as happened in the case of the reform of confiscated property, that unanimity will be found in this House. This unanimity took place in the Commission, but we are aware that there is still a part of the representation of our country which has chosen not to participate in the work of the Commission. So that unanimity doesn't refer to who wasn't there. The other time, on the other hand, there has been real unanimity in this House on confiscated property; I hope that the same unanimity can be achieved at the end of this debate and that, starting with the sharing of these documents, those who have still chosen not to participate in the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission can reflect on this choice in the light of a real sharing of the work, proposals and objectives that we have set ourselves. I appeal above all to the Forza Italia Group to carry out all this reflection both on the merits of the proposals put forward and above all on participation. Finally, the other report we are debating today is the one we have proposed to the parties on the formation of electoral lists, with an ethical code that goes beyond what is required by the law. The law provides for incompatibility, the Severino law lays down a number of rules, but we, as an anti-Mafia parliamentary committee, have suggested that we pay more attention, and we have done so for two reasons: we want to make it clear to the whole policy that the issue of the infiltration of organised crime into politics - as we unfortunately see every day from the news - is very concrete; there is a great aggressiveness of the mafias trying to represent themselves directly within the institutions. This requires a surplus of attention on the part of politics: not a renunciation of guaranteeing, but an extra attention, to identify the signs, the spies, that can make us understand that there are or there may be candidates that represent a risk of infiltration. The issue of the infiltration of organised crime into the institutions is crucial. This is the first point that we must address, and we must do so with great determination. This is the message that we wanted to give with the ethical code, behavioral, that has been proposed and continues to propose to the parties. Then everyone decides and voters consider whether to apply it. I therefore believe that this document XXIII No 3 is useful. I do not think it would make sense to vote on it in a Parliamentary House precisely because it is a code of conduct. However, in this document there can also be rules useful for the work of the Commissions, of Parliament and for subsequent legislative changes. Here, I briefly summarized the issues before us. I insist, however, on one point: today the Senate is discussing what the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission has produced, and it is doing so with an irrational act compared to the past, which I believe should become a practice; in fact, I hope that from here we will continue to deal with everything that, not only the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, but all the Commissions that fight organised crime can propose, in order to give the sense that, in the face of calls for legislative, regulatory and behavioral changes that concern the fight against the Mafia, we respond immediately, promptly, because this is a great problem of our country that we want to fight. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u44	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. 11.14 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on document XXIII No 3. The report by the Committee of Inquiry into the Mafia, which is on the electoral roll, is an important moment in the development of the legislature. This report - which bears the so-called party self-regulation code in the elections, a document which is not legally binding but which is significant in the way it traces - fits, as has already been said, into a furrow that has already been experienced in past legislation and seeks to deepen it. It extends the hypothesis of incandidability and anticipates the threshold of alarm against the so-called Pisanu code of the last legislature, also making use of changes to the law of contrast, in the meantime innovative and modified. We are talking about a path of awareness and concrete commitment of politics in a field, that of prevention, all too often left to the judiciary. Having clean lists in elections should be a concern of political parties and leaders, not just a legislative and judicial necessity. This is why the work of the Commission of Inquiry is important: it takes up the thread of analysis on the managerial classes and the methods of their selection. It questions the role and hold of intermediate bodies and checks the level of public ethics. Personally, I come from Liguria, a beautiful region, from the coasts of a heartbreaking charm and from the port cities, perpetually open to the new, to the foreigner, to the discovery. Here - unfortunately - in Liguria mafia and 'ndrangheta have arrived and have taken root, also and especially with the local elections. I know how important it is to keep out people who are sensitive to the expectations of the coasts from the municipal and regional councils. The guard must be high, very high, and this guard cannot keep it only magistrates and forces of order for us; it must be the parties, associations, intermediate bodies of society to recognize in time the mafia cancer and keep it out of the competition for consent. The self-regulation code we are debating today seeks to draw attention - and thus to be a remedy - to that irresponsible lightness in the frequentation of criminal circles. It is a lightness that arises from the uncertain perception of the boundaries between legality and lawlessness and that obscures the sense of duty of those who hold responsibilities connected with institutional roles. It is the political parties that must have an authentic, participatory life, rich in exchanges of ideas and that must be the genuine seat of formation of the ruling classes, as the article 49 of our magnificent Republican Constitution imagines. If the parties return to be this - political elaboration and confrontation - they will know before and better than the judiciary clean up lists from unworthy people and present themselves to the electorate with the only force of their proposals. In Italy and in my Liguria we must resume this virtuous path and relaunch the most beautiful politics, the one that knows how to look into the eyes of our young people and take care of their anxieties and their dreams. The girls and boys of Liguria have the sea in their eyes and the wind in their souls: keeping the mafias out of public life and electoral competitions means safeguarding that treasure. That is why I want to send a special encouragement and greeting to Enrico Ioculano, the young mayor of Ventimiglia elected last June, who happens to a junta heavily conditioned by dark powers and who is fighting for a serious renewal. A mobster in City Council, or even in Junta or as mayor, can mean a permit to build where it was not needed; it can mean a variant to the regulatory plan, which was not to be approved; it can mean giving in to business committees and to an instrumental and privatised vision of public institutions. All this is nothing else from our daily life. It may happen that bad land management is very harmful, either in itself or combined with weather events. It may happen that the unwise management of the municipal coffers is then a cause of financial disruption, which all citizens must pay with taxes. In the end it can emerge that - as Nando Dalla Chiesa and Martina Panzarasa write, in the volume "Buccinasco" and as Gianfrancesco Turano writes in "Contrada Armacà" - freedom has been lost with the Mafia in the City Council. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u46	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u47	Mr President, Senators, Senators, of course I too appreciate the willingness of the President of the Senate to open the debate of the Senate Assembly to these issues. As is well known to this House, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations has been entrusted by the Chambers with various tasks, including investigating the relationship between mafia and politics, and with regard to its articulation in the territory and administrative bodies - with particular reference to the selection of leadership groups and nominations for elected assemblies - and with regard to its demonstrations which have caused crimes of a political-mafia nature, and, among other tasks, to assess the adequacy of law enforcement, including with regard to international agreements, assistance and judicial cooperation. In order to respond to the mandate received, the Commission - albeit a late start and, as the rapporteur pointed out, with the stubborn absence of certain political forces - has been set up as sub-committees which have produced, in addition to the report on the prospects for reform of the system for the management of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime - which has already been discussed in this House, with the adoption of a resolution voted unanimously - also those that are being discussed today. Also because of the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, unanimously - and I repeat unanimously - a report has been adopted calling on Italy to play a leading role in the preparation of regulatory and organisational instruments to improve the fight against criminal organisations, because it is now a peaceful fact that mafia-type organisations have extended their criminal interests beyond national borders, rooting with many pages in different European states. Therefore, their contrast can no longer only be a national issue, as manifest is the delay of coordination and real understanding of the phenomenon itself in some national laws: it is enough to remember that in some European countries the content of Articles 416-a and 416-b of the Criminal Code is totally unknown, because it is not in their legal culture. The awareness that mafias are a real danger, however, cannot but call European states to a culture of contrast to mafias - of which our country cannot fail to promote, given its vanguard role in this matter - so that both on the level of cooperation and on the level of police in the field of the fight against organized crime will make progress. The awareness of how mafias are a deadly danger to the free development of economic and human activities and, therefore, to the security and freedom of people within the countries of the Union has become tragically evident, especially after the events in Duisburg. Among the various indications suggested in one of the reports we are discussing today, the most significant are: the rapid establishment of a dedicated European Public Prosecutor's Office; the implementation of regulations to organise joint investigation teams; the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation decisions and of the freezing of assets and of evidence; the harmonization of the rules on the liability of legal persons; the launch of the operational anti-mafia network; the stimulation of the European Commission to establish a common definition of organised crime and, in particular, of the Mafia; and the promotion of the swift implementation of Directive No 42 of 2014, on the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets (as the rapporteur has already reminded us). Another Committee which has completed its work is the report on the reform of the system for the protection of witnesses. The spirit that animated it was to fill some gaps in the legislation, which had forgotten to regulate the treatment of witnesses of justice. It was immediately clear that overcoming this vulnus, which risks losing credibility to the State, is only possible through a new law dedicated to them. Among the criteria proposed in the report that will contain the future bill, the most significant are: the need to redesign a system in which the use of the protection of the witness is presented as an extrema ratio, giving priority to the use of the on-the-spot tutorial measures in relation to the traumatic special protection programme, the aim of which can only be achieved with a greater commitment of resources; the return of the state-witness relationship out of the concept of collaboration, to rethink it as a commitment between the parties as a unilateral act of recognition of the debt that has as its sole consideration the assumption at the head of the witness of the duty of confidentiality (the witness must not be obliged, that is, to conduct or sacrifice enormous or abnormal - as happens now - with respect to the real security requirements, to obtain the recognition and the protection of its rights by the State); to reconstruct the profile of the witness of justice, eliminating those borderline figures, thus distinguishing it from the collaborators through clear choices on the subjective requirements of access to the status; finally, for the case of concrete impossibility to contain otherwise the danger situation, a system of protection outside the place of residence, however to measure of residence. Another decision which was immediately decisive to the Commission in order to fulfil the mandate received was to set up a special Committee to investigate the pervasive capacity of the mafias in the conditioning of the elected bodies. It was clear that, in order to do so, it is essential to monitor over time the attempts at conditioning and mafia infiltration in local authorities and to propose appropriate measures to prevent and combat these phenomena, verifying the effectiveness of the legislation in force in this area. With this in mind, the Anti-Mafia Commission has considered, in the light of the succession of electoral rounds of all kinds, increasingly arising from early closures of the governmental experiences for repeated mafia infiltrations (of all this my Calabria has tragically experienced), to bring back to the attention of political forces a proposal of self-regulation that ties them in a more demanding way in the care of the nomination of candidates for the elections of representative assemblies, as for the designation in representative bodies and above all of administration of the various public bodies. This is how the report on the formation of lists of candidates for European, political, regional, municipal and circumscription elections was born. The indications from the work carried out have led to the formulation of the report we are debating today, which proposes to innovate the legislation with respect to the single text of 2012, proposing, on the one hand, that there be a single system valid for all cases of election of representative bodies and, on the other hand, that the level of self-protection by political forces against the risk of pollution of electoral lists should be higher, with their adherence to the forecasts of the code of self-regulation prepared precisely by the anti-mafia Commission. This code is animated by good intentions, reaching, on the basis of previous experiences, to widen the number of cases considered as preemptive to the candidacy for any public elective office, such as, for example, having introduced as a preemptive condition, already the conviction at first instance for erarial damage as a consequence of crimes committed in the exercise of the functions referred to in the elective office and affirming the incandidability in any electoral competition - at least for a part-session - of those who held the position of mayor or member of their respective Joints in Municipalities or various loose councils for phenomena of infiltration and conditioning of mafia type or similar. He then established the need to anticipate the level of attention of the political formations, anticipating the stage of incandidability at the time of the enactment of the decree that arranges the judgment or the direct summons to the judgment of the papable to the candidacy and other public offices. We know that the path is still difficult and far away; just remember, for example, that, in the forthcoming elections in Calabria, Mr Scalzo was pointed out in the PD's ranks, which was put to trial for alleged illegality in the management of the Arpacal. It was proposed to extend the cause of incandidability already provided for by Legislative Decree No 267 of 18 August 2000 for local government elections only to all electoral competitions. It must be remembered that, in this regard too, the code of conduct of the 5 Star Movement had already provided for the raising of these barriers at the time of the candidacy of the elected spokesmen in the various assemblies. Therefore, for us there is nothing new under the sun. Allow me, however, to make a few brief comments, since we are dealing with the sensitive issue of the relationship between politics and ethics. As we know, the relationship between moral and political, to which the intervention contained in this code must be ascribed, is no different from the problem of the relationship between moral and every human activity, where the distinction between what is morally lawful and what is not is always made. In all areas of human action we know that the moral question is to find a threshold of indifference in economic, health or sexual relations; for example between the entrepreneur and the worker, between the doctor and the patient, between the teacher and the student, and so on. We have been discussing for a long time immemorial as to what principles should be judged, in the exercise of their activities, behaviors in the examples just reported by the entrepreneur, the doctor, the teacher, etc. Yet, in our neighboring times the common feeling seems to have accepted that the moral question in politics may be particular to what the common morality dictates, suggesting that politics obeys a different code of rules, if not even incompatible, from the code of common life, and in this regard someone has shown great interest in wanting to play on this common feeling. Of course, the moral involved in politics is the social one, which is different from the individual one and which involves the duties towards others: is this quality sufficient to justify the gap between common and political morality, almost to cut out a special ethic of the latter? Several theories, as we know, have even marginalized morals from political conduct, explicitly, like the Hobbesian one, for which there is no other normative system superior to that of politics, or implicit, such as the Hegelian one, in which the State is the last moment of ethics, with a reversal of the relationship between moral and political. Visions - let us remember - that have served in various ways to justify, when not a pre-moral phase, the subordination of morality to an objective and collective ethic of which the State is the only bearer. Visions that have been used to stamp out the Nazi-fascist or Stalinist abomination. Instead, by clearing the field from the extreme worshipers of the reason of State, if one admits the deviation one must necessarily admit the existence of a rule of morality and therefore of deviations potentially not justifiable and inadmissible from morality. But what is political ethics then? The one of the end that justifies the means? Is it the ethics of results rather than that of principles? Political ethics is nothing more than - if I may say and apologise for the crudeness of my reasoning - a professional ethics that cannot start from the mere consideration of exercise of power, but from the consideration that this is a power granted for the attainment of an end that is the common good: this is - as Bobbio reminds us - that qualifies not any government, but good governance. And so, naturally in agreement with Bobbio's conclusions, I believe that the problem is not that of the suitability of the means of political action as well as that of the legitimacy of the end. The problem of the suitability of the means certainly points out from a technical point of view and therefore on efficiency, but it is not necessary, alone, to judge good governance; the latter serves the qualification of the goodness of the end and only this qualifies the specialty of political morality other than the common one, according to which the individual are then judged. No justificationist theory considers the conquest and preservation of power a good in itself: to pursue power for power would mean to transform the means in the end. And to the same moral judgment that distinguishes a good end from a bad one is subjected to political action: what makes, for example, morally unlawful all forms of political corruption is the annihilation, therefore, of the common good. Yet, our country has a powerful meter, in the same way as judging the morality of political action: it is our Constitution, which crystallized in the light of the rule of law that set of values denied by totalizing barbarism and which emerge clearly from the substance of its norms. A substance that is increasingly embedded in a formalist view of the law - here it is constantly trampled - and behind which the abuse of decrees-laws and vows of trust is badly hidden, such as the misery of the government undergrowth in the shadow of the little transparent discipline of party. And so, I would like to hope that this code will help shed light on that moral aspect of politics, good politics, as my colleague has pointed out, increasingly hidden in an action that denies it in practice. The success of the mafias is not irresistible, because they have no morale except that of the death messages they send and its pervasiveness is mainly due to a worsening of political practice, to a backwardness of politics, which becomes increasingly anti-democratic precisely because it no longer cares for the common good, in ways and ends. It is important that the different profiles of efficiency, legitimacy and merit be distinguished in the relationship between morality and politics. Politics must take priority and give priority to the merit of the role of guarantor of the community, already at the stage of selection of candidates, and it must be spent in order to avoid - and this is why this code is crucial - the risk of infiltration of organised crime into any elected assembly. This proposed code will have to commit - in this regard we have already seen the difficulty in forming lists of the PD in the field in Calabria - all political forces so that those who are involved in organised crime, extortion and usury, drug trafficking, illicit trafficking in waste, public administration and other serious conduct are not candidates. The adoption of this code will be subject to voluntary accession, and it could not be otherwise, if we want to make politics a choice of freedom and ensure that these are the fundamental, moral and legal reasons. Behind the obligation of morality, all too often, false moralists and liberticides have been hidden that have propitiated the most serious social mourning to those collectives who wanted to follow them; as far as I am concerned, I have always distrusted, and not only privately, the moralists. Behind the failure to accede or comply with its provisions, the political forces that do not adhere and do not want to join will have to serve - I hope - not sanctions but a moral and even political judgment of the citizens on their choice; this is because, as a lover, as they are, of direct and participatory democracy, I am firmly convinced that the ultimate judgment, and the responsible choice that follows, must and can only be returned to the sovereign people in its entirety. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Roman Senators Maurizio and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u49	Mr President, I have shared the documents that the Anti-Mafia Commission brings to our attention and I think that President Bindi and the Commission are doing a good job. However, I am obliged to say that things are not going well and that the mafias are prospering in our country, despite the efforts and sacrifice of magistrates, policemen and carabinieri. I would like to be brief, in this very concerned speech of mine, and to put only three questions. The first one concerns the North Mafia. We must know that the auctions to the maximum decrease for public works, for subcontracting, and the fall of controls, including the quality of work or health issues, have allowed the 'ndrangheta to be substantially monopolist in certain productive sectors. This is a very serious problem that needs to be addressed. We can't find out in the papers that there are infiltrations. But then what does "infiltration" mean? In many areas, for example with regard to earth moving machines, the 'ndrangheta is monopolist, it is therefore much more than infiltration: we are talking about gentlemen who are part of the leadership group of our North, until yesterday absolutely not touched by the danger of the mafias. More effective action should then be taken. The second issue I would like to put to your attention is the relationship between the mafia (mafia, 'ndrangheta, camorra) and the political system. The main relationship lies in the fact that there must be a mediator in order to manage certain big business between these two worlds. This mediator at a certain moment in the history of the mafias was a mobster (I don't want to name names because this would ignite polemics that I don't care about). In the current situation he is always a mobster, but he is a mobster to whom the Mafia of Trapani and the 'ndrangheta of Reggio Calabria ask not to be part of their association: of this there is the evidence and the magistrates have said it in the Commission. What happens then? It happens that this mafia intermediary - the intermediary is central to the role of the mafia - is not punishable by our laws except for the crimes of corruption, but for the crime of corruption, dear senators, you do not go to jail because there is a prescription. When the mafias can grant you the assistance of the lawyer until the end of your days, and the magistrate cannot incriminate you for participation in the mafia organization because you are not formally part of it, the crime to you ascribe will be prescribed, and being prescribed you not only do not risk the prison, but above all remain in the condition of continuing to do the same job you did before for the mob boss. Do we understand each other? I'm talking about Reggio Calabria, the center of the 'ndrangheta (and everyone tells me that there would be no 'ndrangheta in the North if there were not this continuous reference to Calabria), as well as Trapani, the Province where Matteo Messina Money is still fugitive. This was the second, absolutely serious point that I wanted to submit to you. Thirdly and finally, I will not be practicing in the discussion on the State-Mafia negotiation, but I urge you to take into account the fact that all the people who dealt with the Mafia, from La Torre to anyone else who comes to mind, knew that the Mafia was not something external and that for years and decades it was a stone feast at the table of our development and our difficult Italian democracy. Did this report break in 1992-1993 or did it not break at all? I'll leave you that question. I can tell you, however, that some threats, for example to Luigi Ciotti or Roberto Scarpinato, show, also because of their quality, that there are still pieces of state that are fully in solidarity with the objectives, interests and actions of the mafia organisations. Our enemy is therefore also internal. Pretending that there is an external body that, who knows how, infiltrates is a story, a narrative absolutely not responsive to the truth. To conclude, I would like to put the following three points to you. First of all, it would be good to review the rules on prescription. Secondly, we should review our industrial policy. Very often, in fact, the auction should not be pursued to the maximum decrease. In a place like Sicily, for example, if spending more could lead to development, rather than pretending to save money and give the Mafia intermediary the opportunity to raise costs for the public structure, auction is not the best solution. Finally, let us be careful about the words, which are important, as Moretti said. We're not talking about infiltrations and external bodies. There is a continuity of intent - which I hope we all want to fight - within our State which has been collusion and complicit in the Mafia. The latest findings and also some worrying news about the use of hard prison for mafia relations by state structures warn us that we should have a little more attention on this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u50	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the Witnesses of Justice of the Commission of Inquiry into the Mafia which we are examining today is an interesting starting point and is a serious contribution to the progress of the debate on Mafia trials in our country. In the debate - at the Committee of Inquiry - opinions emerged with various nuances, but I believe that, on the whole, this text can be applauded. These days I've been thinking about an old Sidney Lumet movie: The word to the jurors, which winds through the examination of the testimonies and their reinterpretation in the light of one another. ==References====External links==* Official website The defendant of murder, finally, is acquitted because the jurors, one by one, are convinced that the testimonial evidence was not entirely reliable. Our film tradition also contains portraits of the witness and his contribution to the ascertainment of the truth. We remember the films by Pietro Germi of 1946 and the one with Alberto Sordi and Philippe Noiret of 1978, both entitled "The Witness." But unfortunately, mafia trials are not comparable to the trials we see in the movies. At the cinema, the witness of justice is by definition a protagonist and, generally, at the cinema they win the good. The life of a Mafia witness is instead a real hell, made of constant dangers for himself and for his family. But what's worse is that the witness too often finds himself in an exchange with the state, with the community, with all of us, completely learning. He gives everything - not only what he knows, what he has seen, what he has suffered from criminal organizations - but also his own destiny and puts it in the hands of the State and then gets nothing but bureaucracy, long delays, prohibitions. The subject matter is governed by Decree-Law No 8 of 1991 (converted into Law No 82) and then by the Law of 2001 which laid down the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry of the 13th legislature. Since then came the tragic story of Domenico Noviello, dealer of Casal di Principe, killed six years after the end of the protection program, and then again the terrible events of the builder Giuseppe Mascari, the merchant Tiberio Bentivoglio of Reggio Calabria and many others, and the women of 'ndrangheta who tried to rebel, such as Lea Garofalo, Maria Concetta Cacciola and Santa Buccafusca. The stories of the witnesses in danger are not, therefore, films in first vision. They are paths of ruin, abandonment, subtle betrayal and bureaucratic loneliness. The report indicates a number of solutions. I quote three for example. First of all, it seeks to limit the protagonism of the witness of justice, proposing that he may be heard only in the probative incident and not in debate, in order to dampen the clamour that, in this case, is really unwanted. Secondly, it proposes measures to protect the existing assets of the witness and his family, so that at least on the asset side he can maintain a security sphere. Thirdly, the report calls for the introduction of the rule that the Agency for property confiscated from the Mafia may or should primarily entrust the management of property confiscated to witnesses with the appropriate capacity. What I would like to see left this morning, Mr President and colleagues, is that making a contribution against the mafias is always dramatically challenging and does not end up in a catwalk as we see in the movies, that when it's over we go home. In order to understand the scope of this commitment, I would like to mention just one more episode last May. To Vibo Valentia, the Soriano clan of Filandari turns out to have threatened a witness in the Spider trial, a construction worker. It was not limited to the telephone threat. The worker was beaten and removed from the yard, he was removed and not the clans. There is so much work to be done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u53	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we would not have wanted to speak in this debate, since our Group has never participated in the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias, because of purely and exquisitely political events. Politics sometimes divides. Fortunately, finally, we have reached an agreement with the other political groups, so we will participate in the next meeting as the Forza Italia Group of both the House and the Senate. I wanted to say this, because rightly the rapporteur, whom I thank, stressed one aspect of the report when he spoke of unanimity, and because in the front page of the report there are all the names of the members of the Commission, there could well be some doubt that all those who are mentioned had participated, voted and shared the reports anyway. With regard to the two reports, the one on the Italian Presidency of the European Union and the fight against organised crime on a European and non-European basis, and the one on the protection of witnesses, we are waiting for the motions for resolutions and certainly from the assurances received by the rapporteur I believe that we will vote in favour of the same reports. On the other hand, I have something to say about the other report on the formation of lists of candidates for European, political, regional, municipal and circumscription elections. I would like to make a request in this regard. Since we consider the report to be significant and important, given that we are talking about electoral lists, about incandidability, to extend it to the regulations that Parliament has so far voted, in particular Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012, I believe that a debate on this issue can and should take place. This is precisely in view of the fact that we want to participate, together with our fellow Members, in the drafting of the report and, if necessary, see whether improvements and adjustments can be made. I therefore ask you to read the motions for resolutions, and then I repeat in the spirit that has been expressed here so far by those who have preceded me, I believe that we will be voting in favour of them. With regard to the other report, the one on the electoral question, I would ask that it be returned to the Anti-Mafia Commission in order to better assess it and, should there be any rethinking or adjustment, to bring it back to Parliament in the light of the further reflections that we and our fellow Members are prepared to make. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u54	Mr President, our Group shares the content of the two reports, which are complex, complex and serious. Speaking to the many colleagues who have spoken, precisely because the matter is of great seriousness signal that perhaps it must be dealt with with with less vision of serial films on television on the mafia type. "La Piovra" and more relevance to the reality of the facts. I have always been in favour of and continue to be in favour of the strictest and most repressive measures possible against organised crime, including hard prison, which my own area has always supported with great rigour. I am therefore in favour of the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, Camorra and organised crime without a neighborhood and with all the instruments, such as the proper management of the repentant or even international agreements - as is the case with these realities - that can effectively affect this phenomenon. I take advantage of this opportunity to point out that a certain interpretation of the fight against the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta instead of hitting the criminals hit the honest citizens. We are faced with a Kafki situation, especially in the North, where healthy businesses and decent citizens are hit in ways - now I will read you as - which, in my opinion, are unworthy of a civil country because they bring us back to the Holy Inquisition, since these are situations in which citizens cannot defend themselves against the accusations that are raised against them. I start from a premise: we need to make a serious analysis of the situation. I took part in a meeting of the Anti-Mafia Commission in Bologna, where I was presented with a document in January of this year in which I was told that - I am from Modena - the Provinces of Modena and Reggio Emilia, above all, had an infiltration of the mafia and the 'ndrangheta that has militarily occupied the territory, the citizens and their minds, with an even more serious conditioning. Our two provinces would therefore be militarily occupied by organised crime which would also occupy the hearts and minds of 1,100,000 Modena and Reggian citizens. In the document it is added that those who, like me, have contested interdittives are an erosore of legality because those who criticize certain interventions become an ally. Colleagues, how does it work at present? I read yesterday's last interdictment against a 32-year-old; his father had been banned and his company in Modena failed. At the age of 30 he tried to set up a company, but in turn he was the subject of an interdictive measure. I reread to you, as I have already done on another occasion, what there is in an interdictive provision, so that you may be aware of what the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and crime' is, and of what it is else. I would like to draw the attention of Vice-Minister Bubbico, because the question concerns the Ministry of the Interior. What does it say in these interdirectives by now? Listen: The concept of attempted mafia infiltration, as a sociological and non-legal matrix, is extremely nuanced and differentiated from the investigation carried out by the criminal court, sir of the fact. The rule does not require a criminal undertaking to be present, proof of the mafia's occupation is not required, nor is it necessary to establish criminal liability in the field for the owners of the suspected undertaking. In the case I'm talking about, entrepreneurs are absolutely honest people who, however, hired workers, workers of Crotone one of whom, from the surveys, turned out to have a sentimental relationship with a 23-year-old woman daughter of a boss. Therefore, there must be no pre-conditions of criminal liability, being sufficient that from the information acquired through the police bodies there is desume an inditiary framework that, overall intended, but however plausible, is symptomatic of the danger of linking the enterprise with organized crime. So, it can't be ruled out. It also reads: The anti-mafia information must be based on a factual picture of elements which, while not necessarily having to rise to the level of evidence (even indirect), are such that they are reasonably considered, according to the " id quod plerumque accidit " the existence of elements that do not recommend the establishment of a relationship with the p.a. Nor is proof of the relevance of a danger situation required. Further on we read: "It has been pointed out that due to constant case law, anti-mafia caution does not aim to ascertain responsibility, but is placed as the form of maximum anticipation of the action of prevention, inherent in the function of police and security, with respect to which they take importance, by law, facts and events only symptomatic and circumstantial, beyond the identification of criminal responsibility." Excuse me, but that's what sun 24 hours has written so far. The people of the Holy Inquisition were amateurs in comparison! It can therefore happen that in a company based in Modena, Reggio, Emilia-Romagna for a hundred years of which the owners, the children, the relatives, of which everyone is known, arrive investigators who, controlling, verify that a person has been hired who maintains a sentimental relationship with a certain individual for whom he incurs a given danger. Then comes the interdictiv for which the enterprise can no longer work with the public agencies, they skip the orders and fail. And if the owner's son wants to work he cannot do so because, being his son, he is legitimated to think that if he starts a company he does so in order to avoid the interdictment issued against the father. So the son must hang himself? Do you have to commit suicide? What does the mafia, the drangheta and the camorra have to do with this? As I said in the anti-Mafia Commission, there are intimidations, threats, blackmails and corporate climbs in jail. These people are being inquisited. But the state, the prefects, the interforces must not be perceived by the citizen as enemies. When three years ago in Modena a public controversy arose because in the lists of the PdL seemed to want to register suspicious people because they were born in Sicily, Calabria or Campania as Undersecretary I met the prefect, the colonel of the Carabinieri, the quaestor and the prosecutor of the Republic to show them a list of names that I had also noted, having read in the newspapers that they could have some connection, and, fellow senators, what did the four authorities say? That they couldn't give me any indication why the data was protected by privacy. I repeat, they couldn't give me directions. So, tell me if it is right that a politician, a parliamentarians, an entrepreneur who hires a person born in those Regions or who has a contact with an enterprise of those Regions that, perhaps, for the prefecture and the DURC are regular, then receives the ban because from successive investigations it turns out that these have connections or have spoken with suspects. But does this seem to you to be the way to combat organised crime? It seems to go back to the time of the Cathars, when, on entering the city, the bishop was asked how to distinguish the good Catholics from the heretics and he replied that they had to be killed all because then God would know how to distinguish one from another. Turning to the representative of the government and my colleagues, I say: maximum repression and maximum severity in striking crime; maximum sensitivity in helping companies, if there are attempts to infiltrate, to overcome this phase. But if a company has removed these situations, is it possible that one should still read today of interdicts that strike children for faults never proven by fathers? Is it possible that today in the North - and I address my southern colleagues - the only way to save oneself theoretically is not to want people or businesses coming from Sicily, Calabria and Campania? The very fact of having contacts with them puts me at risk, endangers my company and my reputation as a parliamentarians. If you claim this thing, someone says that Giovanardi is a legal hero because he doesn't accept uncritically what a judge does. Here, however, we are not talking about criminal charges. At least there is an indictment of a judge, there are three degrees of judgment and you can defend yourself, and you are not guilty until a judgment passed in court. In this case, an administrative body kills you and your company: you died for a month, two months, three months or one year. You remove the things they have said, you fire the workers, but they say no, because theoretically it is not excluded that in the future situations of this type can be repeated. If this is the fight against the Mafia and the Camorra, I warn you that one thing must be considered: the popular feeling is very important because - and I conclude, Mr President - citizens must be allies in the fight against organised crime; they must be afraid of the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra, they cannot be afraid of the institutions, they cannot regard institutions as their enemies. If we put ourselves on this plan of fanaticism, it will end up doing a disrespect to the mob and fighting it, we will do you a favor. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Schifani and D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u55	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u56	Mr President, I will not be brief: this is not an issue that can be dealt with in a short debate, it is an issue that each of us should always have in mind. I am not referring to the mafias, but to the fact that we should always have in mind that the mafia and the mafia can be defeated; instead it is assumed that this is not possible. Mafias can be defeated: this is the thing that all of us should have in mind, the State in the first place. However, I would like to thank the people who work with me in the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission. It is true that there has always been convergence on the issues, but I wonder what the Commission's work is for. First of all, it seems that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission does not have a clear objective: we continue to hold hearings on hearings and collect data, but it is always formal and not substantial work. In fact, we use people as mere hearers and not as texts; in the end, therefore, we cannot use much of the information obtained, except to present reports to Parliament which then remain dead letters, because there is never a continuation, a real act against the mafias. I would also like to say that the minutes of silence that often take place in this House for the victims of the mob are quite embarrassing and also hypocritical. It would be time to stop: either the State takes seriously the fight against the mob or we can stop doing always and only formal acts. It doesn't seem to me that the government's fight against the Mafia is a battlehorse. There are many examples of this. We can mention that of public works, where the practice is that even in those carried out in Italy the legislation applied is not the Italian one, which - by chance - is the only one dealing with anti-mafia. I am thinking, for example, of the construction of the tunnel of the TAV or also of the works of the Expo. Also for the Expo every company will build its pavilion; these companies can be foreign, but also Italian: since, however, the pavilions are assigned to other nations the anti-mafia law is not applied. So, why did we do the anti-mafia code and all the interdicts and what else if we never apply them in reality? What can it be useful for, if in reality, when carrying out the inspections in the yards, it is verified that there are companies already declared mafia but that however they work inside the yards (in fact, without even being known of their presence)? Something's wrong. We always declare that a great fight is being waged against the Mafia, but in reality it is not. Or, speaking of corruption, we could follow the money. This is not a new idea, it has already been explained by a great person who fought the mob. But, by chance, this is not done and the anti-corruption law is not launched. Yet corruption, in addition to serving the mafias, serves to set up black funds for weapons. However, there is no interest in following the money. Again, it is a policy issue that does not want to fight mafias and organised crime in general. Then there is another problem: people's culture. If we can dissolve the municipalities for mafia infiltrations, but then we give the citizens the opportunity to vote the same candidates sent home for mafia infiltration, I would like to know what the law for the dissolution of the municipalities is for, since most of the time the same people are re-elected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not even a law is enough: you have to change the heads of the people who re-vote candidates sent home for mafia infiltrations. And therefore mafia infiltrations are no longer such: there is a State on loan, it is a State infiltration into the mafia. The state is on loan and, again, the government does nothing not to be on loan, because otherwise it would increase the funds to give the forces of order to control the territory; because otherwise it would do the controls on corruption; because otherwise... There would be a lot of ways to intervene. The government doesn't do that. It has presented billions of decrees, there is a race to decree-laws to solve problems but, by chance, the problem of the mafia is not solved and it is not even considered. We are not talking about corruption and we are not talking about the cultural problem of changing people's minds. In order to change people's culture, we need to invest in school, in education, and it seems clear to me that the state is not doing so. All this tells us that the government, therefore politics and the state, is not interested in fighting against the mafia, because in the end the state is becoming like the mafia: it no longer takes care of the good of the citizens, but of its own, which however does not coincide with that of the citizen, but with the good of those who are sitting in the armchairs. So, what's the difference between state and mafia? None, absolutely none. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If that doesn't change, we'll never be able to solve the problem. It's not about knowing the mafias. The mafias are now mapped. We know all about the mafias, we also know that in the North they do not control the territory but carry out money laundering, but this is also something that you do not want to see, especially in the North. We know that they have gone outside the Italian borders, and this is also something you do not want to see. We should go back to checking the financial flows: a job that no one wants to do, because when you touch the money you touch the strong interests. If we then have to follow the financial flows in the banks, we are touching much greater interests than the strong powers, and therefore no one wants to do so. I do not want to reopen the wound on the political-mafia vote, one of the most tangible demonstrations of the fact that politics does not want to do anything against the mafias. However, I want to tell you that the anti-Mafia Commission should stop being a showcase, the showcase to look good. Among other things, a light note: in the tgs, when they frame the anti-mafia Commission, they always show the President and the honourable Members of the PD, as if the others were not even there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course it's not your fault, it's information. But this also gives the idea of how the state and the same information are no longer a guarantee of anything. The state has abandoned its citizens. And what do citizens do? They abandon themselves to the mob. If we want to change all this, the state must first assume the responsibility to do so. And, often, unfortunately - and I regret to stress - both in the Commission and in this House I am ashamed to represent the Italian State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u57	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u58	Mr President, I must confess that, when I read the full reports proposed by the Anti-Mafia Commission, it occurred to me how the praxis and systematic approach to a problem ends up conditioning the hypothesis of a solution. If we take the reports of the Anti-Mafia Commissions of the last ten years and expound the essence - that is, according to the classical definition that gave it to existentialists, everything that can not be - we find a methodological approach and a description of the phenomena that is repeated systematically. With this I want to say that as long as, as a well-known manual of Franceschiello's army reported, we show the vicious face to the mafia, to the 'ndrangheta, to the camorra and to all the exversive organizations ‐ because it is true and proper exversive organizations towards the State, public order and civil and honest coexistence of Italian citizens ‐ we end up unconsciously entering into a system for which we become mafia ourselves, in the sense that, to show the vicious face, we forget every respect that is due to the freedom, truth and factual ascertainment of the accusations, with the reversal of the burden of proof between those who accuse and those who are accused. I come from a region, indeed more precisely from a province - that of Caserta - that is known to the honors of the chronicle for the pervasive, lasting and historical presence of the Camorra; camorra that, I like to remember here, is not born as a criminal phenomenon, but as a phenomenon of opposition to the absolute power of the king and of the aristocracy, through an order parallel to the State that - like Freemasonry, for example - has the task of repairing the abuses and abuses to which the weakest and least wealthy part of the population is subject. The mayor of the Sanità district of Eduardo gives an emblematic picture, for those who have seen it. I say this because thinking of striking these phenomena in areas where they are endemic only by showing the ferocious face of the machine guns and the army that guards the territory is a mere waste of time. It would not be explained why these phenomena have not already been eradicated for a long time, despite the various Commissions that have been set up and the various efforts made, even at the expense of the rights of the ill-capitulated citizens among the meshes of law rules that often turn out to be used and applied in an obtuse way - as Senator Giovanardi said earlier - that denies their freedom and their rights. I do not want to be a sociologist, I do not want to tell you that in those areas the State has not been there for many years, I do not want to tell you that for many years those municipalities have not had a regulatory plan and that they have not had employment opportunities. A pabulum has been created, a culture in which it happens that a 14-year-old boy - as a writer told me referring to his brother Camorrista and then killed - goes to do a robbery together with other friends, because that is the way to show the community of Casal di Principe his value, his courage, his social figure. We therefore come, Mr Vice-Minister, to the Commission itself. We live in a nation in which to show the ferocious face to the ill-fated phenomena, forgetting every other condition, any other social background and any other omission or failure of the State, we find ourselves under the hegemony of a management of the law on repentants and with the systematic application of a crime that is a real legal abomination, the external competition in association. This crime completely overturns the burden of proof - let me be a guaranteeer, in a Chamber that has the propensity to be a justiceist - and allows many prosecutors not to do their job, that is to say to work, to investigate, to prove and to document the accusations; accusations that apodictically are considered true and certain at the expense of citizens who, after jail and transgressions, are acquitted - ahinoi - after many years (because this is the average duration of the trials in Italy). Is it possible that this House and that this Parliament will not yet be able to codify, that is to say to type out, this kind of crime of jurisprudential derivation that is not yet present in the Code of Criminal Procedure? We have not been able in these years, to show the ferocious face, to be intransigent, not to appear in the eyes of others hypothetically collusion or supporters of the organized underworld, to define how, when, where and how this external competition takes place in association. So, what's going on? Let's face it, without being afraid. Let's say that today, with the system of preventive imprisonment, with the management of the repentant that happens from the same prosecutors... (The Bubbic Deputy Minister is engaged in a conversation.) Mr. Deputy Minister, be patient, listen to us; otherwise go and talk somewhere else. We can also speak here in a thoughtful way. Mr President, I would ask you to stop talking between the Deputy Minister and his friend if you want to listen to me; otherwise go away and I will talk to the friends in here. I was telling you that the prosecutors who accuse the citizen, in the case of the alleged crimes of external competition, are those who manage the repentant, and therefore are in an objective condition to be able to use them to support the theorems through which they have imprisoned a citizen without having the proof. What does that mean? Pulling out hardened and multiple-homicide thugs from jail, seizing their assets, getting the family out of context, and paying these people a high monthly salary. Does it seem possible that this could be compatible with the third party with which the judiciary has to deal with the problem? Why not create a core of prosecutors and magistrates who have, regardless of context and circumstances, the management of repentance? Why entrust them to the public accuser and therefore to the public user? I am not afraid of my friendships - I conclude, Mr President - Nicola Cosentino, who in the eyes of the public opinion is now a criminal and is my friend, has been imprisoned the second time - I say this to my friend Giarrusso - because, according to an information from the ROS, a regional council member went to visit him for friendly facts and was accompanied by Giuseppe Fontana, who, according to the ROS, was a known criminal because he had had had an anti-Mafia interdictive that the TAR had then revoked twenty days later. If these are the conditions to arrest a citizen (let him be his name) and to put him back in jail after the trial has been going on for three years, and no disputes and factual evidence have emerged, what relationship have you come here to talk to us about? The Mafia fights by also defending decent people, defending citizens and protecting their rights and freedoms. So, hurry up to propose the typing of the crime of external contest; hurry to remove the repentant from the use and abuse of prosecutors and their fans in order to be able to support theorems that they cannot prove. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u59	I greet the students and teachers of the Scuola Medio Statale (San Giovanni Bosco-Summa Villa) in Somma Vesuviana, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u60	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u61	Mr President, in this debate I would like to begin by commending the work done by the anti-Mafia Commission and the presentation in this House of three very important documents, which highlight the fact that the Mafia is something on which to keep the attention high and on which to work in unison. Mr President, I have always considered the Mafia to be an extremely negative thing, and this is a feeling that we have probably all felt more or less. In fact, the Mafia tends to control economic activities, concessions, authorizations and public service contracts, thus outlining the political character of the criminal organization of the mafia type, that is to say its tendency to penetrate the apparatuses of the State to bend them to their own wills and interests. The Mafia, unlike what someone may think, does not stand in opposition to the State, it is not in fact the anti-state and does not fight against it to replace it: it infiltrates the institutions to bend them for its own purposes. Hence the need to differentiate certain criminal activities with the establishment of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code. In this debate, more than talking about the three documents, I would like to make some comments about what has happened and what has been said about the Expo, which has also been the subject of some pages of the newspapers these days for some arrests and police operations. We've seen the Expo as one of the showcases in this country for the next few years. It is clear that when huge capitals move, the mob moves, criminal activities and the people who live in it move. Returning to the Expo the data are alarming - the news is yesterday's - and, as someone said, you have to keep your eyes open. The event is indeed of extraordinary importance and, precisely for this reason, it is necessary to pay the utmost attention to what happens on the procurement front, and especially of the subcontracting, where potentially the issue linked to the verifications becomes more complicated. The attention was and is high, and proof of this is that about five hundred files have been opened on companies and personnel involved in the Expo. Five hundred, Mr President, so not a small thing. On 13 January, however, there was a very concrete action by the President of the Lombardy Region and the entire Regional Council and was presented the action plan "Expo Milano 2015 mafia free". On this document, drawn up by the Lombardy Region, a great satisfaction has been expressed, and the signing of this protocol with which a concrete objective has been achieved has been proof of this. The aim was to define the actions that each institution concerned or involved in Expo 2015 is called upon to carry out. As far as the Lombardy Region is concerned, these actions are very relevant, especially because it has the task of coordinating and supervising the initiatives related to Expo. It is an agreement signed by President Maroni with the Minister of Interior Alfano, with the mayor of Milan Pisapia, with the president of the Province Podestà, with the prefect of Milan, with the commissioner of Expo 2015, then all involved in what could actually be a great showcase for the coming years. The first alarm bell that has been highlighted in this document is the attention to evil, with respect to which there should be a line of collaboration between all the institutions involved so as to become to all intents and purposes a barrier to the mafia infiltration but also to the evil in general. Other elements that have been raised are the mutual exchange of information, so that all stakeholders exchange information every week that is useful for the necessary prevention of accidents of a certain type, and the coordination of local police. In fact, it is expected that local police will have to interface, overcoming that sort of bell tower that sometimes makes these bodies not too likely to interact. There was, however, a sly one (the sly one is always around the corner): Maroni was not invited to the summit of the Anti-Mafia Commission on the risk of criminal infiltration in view of Expo 2015 and for this reason the League decided to withdraw its delegation, not to show little interest, but precisely to signal the absurdity of the fact that several local institutional representatives were invited but not the Governor of the Lombardy Region. The scorn seems even greater since Maroni has been considered by all to be one of the best interior ministers in the fight against organised crime, and I believe that a large part of the thirty most dangerous subjects have been arrested right under his Ministry. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the subject of today's Assembly, the three documents presented are important and are the result of a timely work by the Anti-Mafia Commission: three reports by the Commission which, in my opinion, cover in a synergistic and relevant way all the issues that are now unavoidable and which must be tackled vigorously. The first report takes into account the phenomenon of mafia crime on a European and non-European basis and, during the Italian Presidency, I believe that this document can be seen as the flagship of the work of this Commission. The second report deals with the issue of the formation of lists of candidates for European, political, regional, municipal and circumscription elections; it is a document whose non-compliance does not provide for any kind of penalty, the content of which could certainly become the subject of a law in the future, despite the passage of the Severino law has shown, in the sixteenth legislature, that however there has been a huge difficulty in approving it. The third report takes stock of the system of protection of witnesses of justice, against which this State has not always had specific attention, subject to a law dating back a few years ago. In the explanation of vote, I will also make a few comments on the three documents, particularly as regards the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission on monitoring criminal activities, particularly at European and non-European level, which must also make this Parliament aware of the fact that malicious activity is extremely flourishing. We do not think that there are any elements that might suggest a decline, which is why the attention is always very high. The difficulties of our operators in being in line with the technological innovations are really complex, because we know that the mafia has a very high economic potential and so it is we who are following them in order to intercept the bad activities, especially the operations they do at an international level. On the other hand, the inability of some states, especially outside Europe, to have legislation equal to ours puts us even more in difficulty in making the letters more effective. I conclude, Mr President, by referring to further considerations in the explanation of vote, and by stressing that this House, as it was hoped in the work done in the anti-Mafia Commission, should pay more fruitful and committed attention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u62	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my thanks for this valuable work which has been offered to us this morning and to thank the Commission. I would like to make a brief speech on document No 2 in particular, and specifically on a point which I am particularly interested to stress, which is that of trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is not only a serious violation of fundamental rights, but is also one of the most lucrative activities of transnational organised crime networks. The report shows how criminal activity begins in the country of origin of the victims, who are often threatened or deceived to follow a dream: the hope of a better life. Instead, it happens that traffickers, too often, subject them to physical and psychic violence and that they are often transferred to different countries before reaching their destination, where very often they suffer phenomena of exploitation that concern the sexual aspect, that of work, forced begging, and are forced... [[Brusio]] Excuse me, colleagues, please. I said that the victims are forced, in addition to this abuse, to live secreted, far from any contact with the community of reception. The criminal networks of traffickers in the countries of origin or transit are closely connected with those which exploit on the territory of arrival. As can be seen from the report, Italy is one of the main destinations of trafficked people, but also a country of transit for many victims. We have very serious but underestimated data, as is stated in the Eurostat Reports of 2013 and 2014, where it is said that the identified victims of trafficking (this is an important step: not all the victims but only those identified) in Italy were 1,624 in 2008, 2,421 in 2009, 2,381 in 2010, 1,560 in 2011 and 2,631 in 2012. The figure for children is also available for 2012 because they too are subjected to trafficking (we often see them at traffic lights and sometimes disappear and are no longer visible because they are sexually exploited or even in the workplace): these are 193 children out of a total of 2,631 victims. I repeat that Eurostat considers the data understated, because they are only identified persons. The exploitation of women concerns not only work but the sexual aspect while for men exploitation is mainly in the black work. It would be important to work for emergence from black work, using all possible systems. I take advantage of this opportunity to mention what has emerged in recent days thanks to a journalistic inquiry that has brought to the attention of the public opinion the fact that in the campaigns of the Ragusano they would be perpetrating (we use the conditional until it will be established), now for a long time, serious sexual abuse against many women, mostly of Romanian origin, who work in the many fruit and vegetable companies present in the territory of the Province. It is unacceptable the presence of forms of slavery and sexual exploitation in the territory of Ragusano where anyway (and please be careful on this point), I would like to emphasize that there are many agricultural producers, indeed, the vast majority of those present on the territory, who operate in compliance with the legality and who must remain distinct from those who instead abuse the body of women and the black work of men. The problem, however, I regret to say, is not limited only to the province of Ragusa but, according to the data emerged from various investigations, it affects all our country. It is absolutely not acceptable in a civilized country, in the third millennium, for such incidents to happen, anything but isolated. We therefore call for a firm and decisive intervention from our country. All this can be fought with very strong action against organized crime that infiltrates everywhere, even in the world of politics, with every strength and with the utmost determination. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you, as has also been done in previous speeches, of the importance of the party self-regulation code at the time of the elections. It should not be an imposition, not something imposed by law, but it should be a requirement felt by everyone and everyone precisely because we want politics to be the real one, the one that responds to the needs of the citizens and that does not run the risk of having any kind of infiltration, since unfortunately it is not today. Returning to the speech on trafficking, I believe it is necessary, essential, to address the issue of immigration with the utmost attention, because it is true that trafficking also affects women and men in our Europe, but above all it concerns people from Africa. That is why it is necessary to aim for Europeanisation through cooperation between the peoples of Europe. In this field Italy, and Sicily in particular, play a crucial role in their geopolitical positioning in the heart of the Mediterranean. This perspective produces two negative results: Italy and Sicily are still, unfortunately, too alone and with little resources to deal with the issue of immigration and cannot cope with it. Moreover, the peoples facing the Mediterranean are at odds with each other and lack those dialogues useful to counter current phenomena and resolve the situation. Especially with regard to the phenomenon of mafias organized and present in the national territory, which are the basis of the exploitation and trafficking of human beings in our territory and outside the Italian borders, it is necessary to establish and strengthen a real cooperation and integrated also with European countries. Structured aid programmes, including with the support of the authorities, are essential to build humanitarian corridors. In my opinion, Italy must become an interpreter of a dialogue will that identifies the common sentiments, involving Europe (peoples and elite rulers) in the drama of today's situation, unsustainable for all because it is not based on respect for human dignity but on mere utilitarian calculations and too malavitous. The only way to meet these needs - to combat the mafia phenomenon that exploits illegality and to try to regulate the flows of immigrants who too often end up being victims of this phenomenon - is to act through a united Europe and establish serious, structured and integrated policies to combat a very difficult but fundamental battle. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u64	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak because, when it comes to mafia and anti-mafia, we cannot help but focus on procurement. It is interesting to remember that in the code that collects the anti-mafia laws (and which was last drafted in 2011, when he was Interior Minister Roberto Maroni) there are among other things the provisions on anti-mafia certification, as amended in 1998. In that year the threshold below which anti-mafia certification was not required to participate in a race was raised from 50 million lire to 300 million lire. She was raised a lot. The €300 million in 1998 would be the current € 213,000. If you do not need Mafia certification for such significant amounts, you create a hole in the norm. It is interesting to remember who the Minister of the Interior was at that time: a well-known person in this House, currently at the state summit. It is strange that such a change has been made, because in this way we have left an open door to infiltration, assuming that the anti-mafia certificate is perfectly rigorous. Another important and singular aspect is the discipline of subcontracting. One of the methods used by organised crime to enter procurement is hires, either cold or hot, and if the amount of single work that is entrusted is below 2% of the overall amount of the contract (the contract code says: "singlely") it may not be considered subcontracting work. And if you do not consider it to be such, the rule is greatly simplified. In theory, therefore, it could happen that I entrust a whole series of pieces of a contract, even for very important amounts, without there being a subcontracting and without the need to apply anti-mafia legislation. Then will it be the case in here to begin to understand well what we write in the norms and perhaps correct them? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We need to correct them, because otherwise it is easy for pieces of organised crime to get involved in procurement. Then there are other dramatic aspects. When races are held and - for example in Campania: I am Campania - they fall by 45%, do we want to ask ourselves whether it is possible to carry out a work with such a strong fall on the tariff of public works made by the provision of public works? It means they wash their money, they do money laundering. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are, in fact, other regions where these declines are 3 or 4%. Our task as legislators is to intervene, and we also ask the Government to do so in order to change the figure of 300,000 euros and bring it to the way it was in the past, before the President of the Republic, at the time Minister of the Interior, changed it. Let us take it back to what was before, that is, 50 million, that is, the current EUR 25,000; if we want to re-evaluate, we are going to EUR 30,000, but we are going to intervene, because otherwise we are doing our role very badly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u66	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an important debate for Parliament and for the country, at a delicate time also for the relations between the powers and the guarantee figures of our Republic. Yesterday, in fact, the judges who are investigating the Mafia in Sicily listened to the testimony of the President of the Republic of Naples. I agree with those who said that Italian democracy has a great debt of gratitude to Giorgio Napolitano. Using his words to overturn the history and roles between those who have dedicated their lives to the different roles they have played to defend institutions and legality and those who have killed, robbed, threatened, accumulated assets in an illegal way, broken laws every day that has remained in life seems to me really an unacceptable pettiness, that all political forces should reject with indignation, knowing how to distinguish well the object of the ongoing process, that is precisely the mafia and not the State, its institutions and who represented them. It is an important debate, as I said, that Senator Mirabelli called it irrational, in which two reports and a code are presented to Parliament, with concrete proposals and measures approved unanimously by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, after very wide and articulate listening and confrontation, initiated since the time of its constitution. The result is far from obvious, which today becomes a priority for all and which is waiting to be further enriched, from here on, also by those political forces that have so far chosen not to participate in its work. I would like to focus on these documents on the self-regulation code of ethics which, in view of the forthcoming round of local and regional elections, the Commission has considered it appropriate to bring back to the attention of political forces. It is certainly a proposal on a voluntary basis, which we will not vote on today, but which extends what is already foreseen by the law and which commits political parties, political formations, movements, civic lists to an ethical surplus when designating candidates for elections, be they European, political, regional, municipal or circumscriptional, as well as when designating representative bodies and the administration of public bodies, the boards of directors of consortia or special companies. The parties, political formations, movements, civic lists that will adhere to the norms of the code undertake on the occasion of any electoral competition not to present or even to support, both indirectly and through the link to other lists, candidates that do not meet the requirements of this code. It is a proposal that is in continuity with the choice already made in the course of previous legislation. The proposal already impacts with the regional elections convened for November 23 in Emilia-Romagna and Calabria. In the elections in Emilia-Romagna, the fight against organised crime should not be the object of ideological dispute, but of a common battle without differences. For part of the candidate president of the center-left, Stefano Bonaccini, the programs and the objectives are clear: among the ten priority points there is the legality and the fight against the mafias and, to be consistent to the end, each of the 32 candidates of the Democratic Party to the Regional Council will be asked to subscribe to the code of ethics and to commit to respect it if elected. It is not just words, but concrete acts and commitments, the result of consistency and transparency, on which, as Mr Molinari rightly said, people and voters will of course judge. Then the other political forces do so with their candidates, and the new Regional Council can be certified free mafia. The proposal of the code impactes with the latest investigation of the Milan anti-Mafia prosecutor on the ramifications of the 'ndrangheta in the North in relation to the works and contracts for the Expo 2015, which yesterday led to the arrest of 13 people in different Provinces of Lombardy and Calabria, which tells us once again how the infiltrations in the local administrations are still today a constant of the way of action of the 'ndrangheta in the South as in the North. Yes, especially in the North. Because for a long time the North of the country has been considered as a territory of stable rooting of the mafia-style organizations. For decades, in fact, in the different regions are present and active 'ndrangheta, camorra and mob boulders engaged both in criminal activities cause of social alarm, such as traffic and drug dealing, usury, exploitation of prostitution, trafficking of human beings, both in criminal activities that raise less social alarm such as smuggling, control of legal and illegal gambling and money laundering. For too long, however, we have dealt with this issue as if it did not concern us directly, and in this period the Mafia organisations have been allowed to be strongly rooted in local communities and to become part of the economy and consequently in public administrations. Contrasting this silent infiltration is a duty for everyone and we cannot commit yet another understatement. We cannot treat the phenomenon as if we were in the presence of a simple infiltration into some particular and narrow sectors. In this way we would allow the thighs that opacity that for decades allowed them to act in a subtle way through consent. To fight mafias you need to know them and to know them you need to know how they have changed, to read phenomena, contexts, far beyond the simple judicial aspect. If you just see one of the faces of the mafia organizations, that is, the one that raises the greatest social alarm, leaving out to see and hit the so-called clean mafia, the institutions and communities will never be able to eradicate this cancer. Mafia organisations, in parallel with the most purely cruel activities, now have such a consolidated heritage and a capacity to "cassa" which now constitutes, on a national scale, together with that of financial crime, almost a third of the gross domestic product. Mafia organizations, therefore, do not need to shoot, but buy and corrupt. They buy the best professionals and lawyers available on the streets, buy unsuspectable companies and members and credit them, buy titles, masters and qualifications. Public officials and administrators of public bodies and of participating and/or controlled companies are corrupted. The thighs, especially since the country has been going through such a deep economic crisis, have become on the one hand a social shock absorber, distributing black work or work in companies by these subsidiaries, able to guarantee also consent and therefore packets of votes, conditioning the vote and therefore the selection of those who are called to manage the public thing. The evolution of the cosche then undoubtedly represents an unprecedented strengthening of the ability to insinuate, to adapt in an almost invisible way both in the field of political, economic and financial power. To fight an enemy, and this enemy, it is necessary, as I have already said, to know him. For this reason, the Commission has also done another important thing: it has asked the Observatory on organised crime of the University of Milan, directed by Nando Dalla Chiesa, to produce a report on the rooting of mafias in the North, of which the last two parts relating to the economy and public bodies will shortly be made public. An important document for all, which allows us to leave aside simplifications or rhetoric. In other words: if you do not have and do not promote a serious diagnosis, you cannot take any really effective cure. Starting from this awareness, my Region and its local authorities have over the years been able to produce acts and facts to counter the spread of organized crime, adhering to Public Notice, to the anti-Mafia caravan of Libera and applying Law No. 3 of 2011, which has recently been awarded in the European framework as a good practice on these issues. But despite this, in my Region episodes such as that of Brescello, in the province of Reggio Emilia, where the mayor called good and kind people residents in that municipality belonging to the Great Aracre family, originally from Cutro and affiliated to the 'ndrangheta. He also organized a demonstration in their support but then reversed, after the Democratic Party of Reggio Emilia and the other mayors imposed it on him. He even cashed in the vicinity of the local parish priest. I have already said publicly and I repeat it here how that mayor was supposed to behave: he had to resign. [[Applause from the senators Ferrara Elena and Mussini]] , because one cannot afford to underestimate in this way the relationship with a family that has been under investigation for decades and many of whose members have been condemned by mob association. Just as I wanted to express solidarity and closeness to my colleague Maria Edera Spadoni of Reggio Emilia, threatened by shady figures in her city (results then of Calabrian origin), only because of the fact of having appointed the Grande Aracri family of Brescello. I did it because, in the face of threats and violence, the battle against the mafias is fought together and united, without distinction [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-ILC groups and Senator Susta]] ; and if the problem for these families is to be named, let's do it here for the umpteenth time: Grande Aracri, Zagaria, Iovine, Bigonetti, Schiavone, Riina, to name but a few. [[Applause]] Only by recognizing the problem and who represents it, from the highest to the lowest levels, can one think of defeating it. And there are places that more than others can allow to build the culture of legality and awareness from below, like the House of legality that we inaugurated a year ago in Sorbara of Bomporto in the presence of the president of the Anti-Mafia Commission, Rosy Bindi, as a response to the presence on the territory of an umpteenth obligatory stay, of a figure tied to the camorrist clan. Places like this can become vehicles of knowledge and awareness of the ways in which the mafias have taken root and can be cut off in the name of a social solidarity that rejects the omerty and undervalued. A concrete form to say no to intimidation and that subtle attempt at cultural substitution based on dependence and fear of retaliation. In conclusion, for this reason the report on confiscated property becomes one of the priorities in order to make law enforcement more effective through preventive measures. For these reasons the ethical code is important: to say, on the eve of the elections in Emilia-Romagna or elsewhere, on which side you want to stand in the fight against the mafia, that is, on the side of the brave, consistent and honest. It is therefore necessary for the action to produce awareness of the rights of each citizen and the critical capacity of the citizens, ensuring that each person becomes aware of the legality. The policy will play its part and through the acts of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission handed over to Parliament has produced an important and decisive step in order to succeed in triggering a political acceleration, also recalled in the conclusions of the days of the anti-Mafia last week. But politics alone is not enough. It takes a choral effort, a team game, to win this challenge. All together. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-MovX groups and Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u68	I declare the joint debate closed and refer the continuation of the examination of the documents to another sitting. I would like to inform my fellow Members that requests for intervention on items not on the agenda must be made in good time so that they can be carried out. As there is no more time, we are going to postpone these speeches to the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-341.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
