ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 25 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u7	The next item is: "Information of the Minister for Economic Development on the economic impact for national companies in relation to the trade sanctions of the Russian Federation against the European Union" I call the Minister for Economic Development, Mr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u8	Mr President, as you know, following the dramatic events taking place in Ukraine, the European Union, the United States and other Western countries have repeatedly adopted sanctions against Russian people and companies linked to the ongoing conflict in that country. These measures, which are likely to have direct effects on the Russian economy, also inevitably have indirect effects on European economies and businesses, primarily because of their recessive effect on the Russian economy. The interdependence of the economies of the European Union and Russia has reached very high levels: just think that, excluding direct investment, trade between the European Union and Russia in 2013 amounts to around 320 billion euros (214 billion Russian exports and 106 billion imports from the European Union) and that trade between Italy and Russia amounts to 30.8 billion euros. Italian exports reach almost 11 billion euros, while our imports stand at a value of about 20 billion euros; it is also remembered, incidentally, that Italy is the second partner of the Federation in the framework of the European Union behind Germany. In terms of energy, we import 49 percent of our gas needs from Russia, with daily peaks reaching 65 percent (26.1 percent of oil and 21 percent of coal). The international energy situation, as we know, is currently very complex and also characterized by considerable volatility; for this reason the Ministry of Economic Development has been monitoring the situation for many months, also carrying out simulations for the potential criticalities that should arise in the gas sector. In agreement with the European Commission, national emergency plans have been drawn up for the coming winter, which for Italy, while providing for critical issues, have highlighted the sufficient capacity of our supply system to be able to overcome prolonged interruptions, up to three months, without excessive difficulties, of the flow of gas from Russia. A very positive note also comes from the level of storage, since their filling is high (94 percent of the total offered by the market) and it is expected to reach by the end of October the volume of 11.4 billion cubic meters of commercial storage, which will be added to the more than 4.6 billion cubic meters of existing strategic reserve. Obviously, we cannot hide that any interruptions in the flow of Russian gas could inevitably have consequences on the gas prices that Italy will have to import from other countries or alternative to pipelines. In part (but only in a small part) this tension is also the cause of the recent increase in the gas bill for Italian companies and households, announced yesterday evening by the Authority. In fact, the price of gas is determined quarterly on the basis of the price of the European market, which in recent weeks has suffered the rise of these tensions between Russia and Ukraine. The Russian Federation has reacted to the sanctions of the West with counter-measures of retaliation which I summarize as follows. First of all, the decree of the President of the Russian Federation n. 560 of 6 August 2014 sets an embargo of one year on a list of five categories of food: fresh fruit and vegetables, fresh and processed meat, milk, cheese and derivatives, different foods, fish and crustaceans, from the United States, the European Union, Canada, Australia and Norway. The estimated loss of the least Italian agri-food exports to Russia must be considered over a necessarily prolonged period of time. At the moment we can rely on historical series, with particular reference to what was exported last year. In 2013, Italy exported to the Russian Federation, in the context of the products I mentioned earlier affected by the embargo, € 218 million, compared to a total export of €10 billion. According to the same data, Italy is the fifth Community supplier of agri-food products after Germany, the Netherlands, Poland and France; 10th if third countries are also considered. In some cases, these categories include products with geographical indications, which in recent years have undertaken significant marketing investments on the Russian market, with an interesting opportunity for development: I quote, for example, Grana Padano and Parmigiano Reggiano. Fortunately, other priority areas such as wine, pasta and olive oil are not affected. For the European Union, products banned from Russian retaliation represent a value of EUR 5.1 billion, i.e. 43% of EU agricultural exports to Russia in 2013 and around 4% of total EU exports to Russia. Therefore, rebus sic statibus and based on historical series, to date also our National Institute for Foreign Trade (ICE) estimates at most in 100 million euros the loss in value of Italian exports to Russia for 2014. However, this sum is hoped to be revised downwards as soon as possible, on the basis of possible repositioning of these products on other markets and the flexibility of the Russian customs control authorities, as well as on the adjustment measures that the Russian Government could still decide in the coming weeks. Fruit and vegetables are certainly the most damaged categories. EU exports represent EUR 2 billion, with tomatoes and drupaceae (such as apricots and peaches), cucumbers and carrots. Russia accounts for 50% of EU exports in this sector, followed by apples and pears, with 46% of EU exports, and the highest figure ever: about 523 million in the fruit and vegetable category. The second most affected category is meat, both bovine and porcine (with pig meat having the highest value, over one billion for exports of pig meat from the European Union to Russia). However, the Russian meat measures would not have an excessive impact as, overall, the European Union is a net importer of beef. The exports to the Federation would be only 100 million euros per year, while the import of pork (less than 80 million euros per year) had already been interrupted since January under the pretext of the spread, in some countries, of swine fever. In absolute terms, the impact on poultry is greater than the impact on beef, although the importance of the Russian market has fallen dramatically for our exports of poultry in recent years. The ban on cheese is also concerned: not only does Russia account for 25% of our current exports, but there has been an upward trend in this sector over recent years. In terms of destination of exports for cheese, Russia is now second only to the United States, followed by Angola, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Norway and Turkey. The customs heading of Grana Padano and Parmigiano Reggiano, for example, accounts for about 15 million euros. Moscow has for the moment damaged the countries that have most exposed themselves in the process that has led to the adoption of selective sanctions. According to data prepared by the European Commission, the most affected Member States are Lithuania (with EUR 900 million annually), Poland (with EUR 840 million), Germany (with EUR 590 million) and the Netherlands (with EUR 520 million). The European Commission, as you know, has immediately taken action to protect the sectors most affected by the embargo. On 18 August, Commissioner Ciolos announced a €125 million package of aid from the CAP for financing market withdrawals and non-harvesting of fruit and vegetables. A delegated act was adopted and published on 22 August for exceptional temporary support measures for peaches and nectarines. Total support measures will amount to €29.7 million for market withdrawals and €3 million for promotion measures. Following an excess of requests from Polish producers in particular, the Commission suspended the implementation of this package on 10 September. However, a new aid package was subsequently prepared, more targeted at the sectors actually affected by the Russian embargo, which should enter into force in these hours. In cooperation with Minister Martina, pressure was also put on the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Ciolos, for other urgent measures. Market monitoring continues and the Ministers of the European Union of Agriculture will take a new look at the situation at the next informal Council in Milan today. Aid for private storage of 155,000 tonnes of cheese has been granted for cheeses in recent days. A further EUR 400 million in reserve is still available, and could be used in case of further need. The Ministry of Economic Development has also instructed our ICE office in Moscow to continue to support the sectors not affected by the embargo, confirming the initiatives planned in Russia: these actions range from the on-site implementation of promotional initiatives at the World Food Fair in Moscow to the organization of an articulated communication plan, planned within the large Russian organized distribution, in particular at the Sedmoi Kontinent chain. In agreement also with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies, it is also considering strengthening the programme of promotional initiatives on the sectors affected by the Russian embargo, integrating it with new initiatives on foreign markets alternative to the Russian one. In particular, the US market can be an important alternative, as the latest trade data show. In the first half of 2014 Italian exports to the United States grew by 7.8 percent compared to the first half of 2013 and in June the increase was 15.6 percent compared to May. The trade surplus exceeded 8 billion dollars, compared to 5.7 in the previous six months. These data project Italian exports for the end of the year to an absolute value of over 28 billion euros, the best result ever. Even more traditional exports, such as meat and fish preparations, flour, fruit and wine, have excellent results (plus 40.3 percent). A study that we commissioned to Prometeia, regarding the market potential of the main countries, estimates in more than 9 billion the additional export to the US market achievable by 2016, corresponding to 35 percent more than the export of 2013. This is the world's greatest potential for Italian goods. In this direction, for the agro-food sector, the Ministry of Economic Development has planned actions towards large-scale distribution in the United States (to support as much as possible entry into new markets that can now be considered alternative to that of Russia) through agreements to place on the shelf a greater number of Italian products, especially quality brands belonging to small companies that do not have the strength to impose themselves on a complex and evolved market such as the American one. To this end, we anticipate the strengthening of our geographical base, increasing the presence of Italian products in less-covered areas, such as Texas and the Pacific coast; the improvement and stabilisation of the presence of Italian products in large-scale distribution and in e-commerce platforms; the education and training of consumers to understand the value of Made in Italy compared to products that surreptitiously refer to Italy (the well-known problem of Italian soiling). The Russian embargo will be able to manifest itself not only in direct form, with the need to relocate the quantities of product destined for Russia to other markets (as we are trying to do and as I have tried to explain), but also in indirect form. Italy, in fact, with an agro-food economy strongly oriented towards transformation, is often the market for the outlet of raw materials that find no more profitable alternatives. The problem of domestic markets, therefore, could not only be to manage the excess supply generated by the lack of absorption of the Russian market, but also to suffer the entry at competitive prices of milk and pigmeat, coming from countries such as Germany, which would lack the Russian market outlet. These are, however, situations that have repeatedly occurred in the past. As far as the market for fruit and vegetables is concerned, Italy being a great producer-exporter and limiting the import only to the initial stages of the campaign, when the national product is not yet ready, it will hardly be able to suffer the domestic direct competition of foreign product. However, in addition to having to manage the national product that will not find outlet in Russia, in this case the problem assumes different and peculiar connotations since the national and Community market of summer fruit has already proved critical for a number of concomitant negative factors such as: the high level of the national and European supply, the uncertain climatic trend that has not so far encouraged the consumption of summer fruit, the repeated precipitations that do not favor the qualitative profile of the product and its shelf life, the less scalarity of the calendar of collection because of the climatic trend with productive overlaps between North and South. To the decree of the President of the Russian Federation that I mentioned at the beginning is added the Decree No 791 of 11 August on State procurement for products from the European Union that are already carried out in Russia. This decree covers a number of goods ranging from textiles, cables, leather to underwear, footwear. At the moment it is not possible to estimate the loss for European and Italian companies in particular because it is a measure that entered into force on 1 September last and because it is public contracts that, by definition, take place at non-regular intervals and are not always awarded to European companies. Our offices are monitoring the situation in order to detect the first cases of application of this embargo. Finally, a third measure adopted by the Russian Government temporarily restricts the export from Russia of raw hides (Decree No 826 of 19 August). The ban will enter into force from October until April and concerns exclusively semi-finished wet blue skins, which represent the main raw material of Italian tanneries and of which Russia is our fourth largest supplier (74 million euros in 2013). The loss for the sector is significant, as the lack of access to this raw material for a six-month period will result in a loss of sales of around 80 million euros. This measure, however, had already been announced by the Russian authorities before the crisis in Ukraine and its approval appears only accelerated by this event. The European Council of 30 August decided to impose additional sanctions, which entered into force under European Union Regulations No 959/2014, No 960/2014 and No 961/2014 of 8 September 2014, supplementing the measures introduced in July and March 2014. The entry into force of the measures was accompanied by the willingness of the European Union to reconsider the measures (the so-called review clause: the first review will take place by 31 October) in the light of a positive development on the ground, which we all of course hope for. This additional package also builds on the principles of graduality, proportionality, effectiveness and non-retroactivity and includes the following measures, in particular financial measures: extension of restrictions on access to European capital markets; measures on so-called dual-use goods (i.e. no export of any dual-use goods for military use or a military end-user, mixed civilian-military as well as those entered into the list). In addition, measures for high technology, such as the prohibition of providing services for oil exploration and production (all gas projects are excluded) and individual restrictive measures (the legal basis for listing has been extended, extending it also to those who carry out transactions with separatist groups in the Donbass). With these criteria, 24 people have been listed. In addition to these measures, the bans on the defence sector (the embargo on trade in all arms, with the exception of existing contracts) and the suspension of funding from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for new projects in Russia and the interruption of specific regional programmes of the European Union are also included. The direct damage deriving to the interchange with Italy from the lacked supplying is desumable from the trade flows 2013 and 2014. The analysis of Russian customs data shows that Italy in 2013 exported products today affected by sanctions for more than 108 million euros (with 3 percent less than in 2012), while in the first quarter of 2014 the value reached 26 million euros. Indirect damage, for example, to our banks operating on the Russian market, which today can no longer draw on the capital available on the financial markets of the European Union or Americans for operations in the Russian Federation, must be accounted for. In conclusion, there is no doubt that the sanctions of the European Union and the Russian retortive measures are having a depressing effect on their economies. This must be taken into account, because Russia is likely to emerge from a phenomenon of depression in its economy and, therefore, will consume less. For our part, we will continue to monitor these effects in order to mitigate, even with support measures on alternative markets compared to those of the European Union, the scope for our companies, and, as mentioned above, insisting that the European Commission should rapidly vary the aid package already approved, both to evaluate new support initiatives also for industrial sectors and services that will be affected by the effects of the last round of sanctions by the European Union. We will also ask, both in the G7 and in the relevant multilateral fora, that our main competitors do not take action - because this is another condition to take into account - backfilling actions aimed at replacing Italian and European products on the Russian market and at reducing, in the future, the market shares, which our companies and our industry have hard earned over the last decade. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u9	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Economic Development. He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for the information he has given us and for the cut he has given us, which leaves no room for superficial reactions and conclusions which could compromise the long coherence, even if contradicted in recent years by episodes and attitudes that cannot be shared, of the Italian foreign policy towards Russia and, therefore, also of trade policy. The Ukrainian story and the obvious responsibility of the Russian army in the eastern part of that great country and in Crimea, the European reactions and the Russian retaliation cannot be addressed and resolved only by focusing on the legitimate and necessary commercial aspects that involve some companies, nor by taking this opportunity for yet another anti-European propaganda. I believe that certain principles must be reaffirmed, knowing that the prudence, the diplomatic path and the patient search for what unites are essential prerequisites for resolving international disputes. A first principle to be respected is that the European Union has a duty to assist the countries with which it has decided to establish trade relations that prefigure more intense and progressive relations over time, even to foreshadow entry into the European Union. It is strange that no or very few have grasped the close link between the Association Agreement negotiated for years between the European Union and Ukraine, which has come to the conclusion that Russia has strongly hindered, to the point of preventing its entry into force, even with blackmailing attitudes, and the current crisis. One cannot but wonder whether and how much this negotiation and understanding on relations between the European Union and Russia and on the aggression against Ukraine's territorial integrity have weighed down. Nor can we fail to ask ourselves, at a time when 2.5% of our exports are at risk, how much has been compromised of the potential for our producers that the association agreement that was not achieved between the European Union and Ukraine could have been fully expressed, moving towards a genuine free trade agreement or at least a customs union. Nothing better than Putin's words - if I wanted the Russian troops could be in two days not only in Kiev, but also in Riga, Vilnius, Tallin and Warsaw or Bucharest - expresses the Russian difficulty in accepting the geopolitical consequences consolidated by the fall of the Berlin Wall onward, of which the eastward enlargement of the European Union is a cornerstone of the very identity of the European Union, although it has been contrasted and has in some way raised many doubts in many people and not a few perplexities. The second principle, which the Minister and the Government also mentioned on other occasions of intervention in Parliament, is that our and the European Union's trade policy should constantly respect the areas of manoeuvre assigned, if necessary by taking a step back from foreign policy when security issues and the values themselves underlying our democracy and the system of relations which Europe maintains with the rest of the world are at stake. I would remind you that in the crisis of the multilateral approach, which was marked by the substantial failure of the original ambitions of the Doha Round, which should have favoured the construction of a system of global trade relations which also respects some fundamental individual and collective rights, it has developed within the framework of the European Union's exclusive competence in the field of international trade, a whole series of FTAs, free trade agreements, all anchored in a virtuous link between respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, States and States, which have contributed (I think of South Korea, Peru, Colombia, the same strategic agreement with Mexico and the ACP countries) to open up world trade by broadening opportunities for European companies and at the same time facilitating the expansion of democracy. A very different approach than that based on blackmail, which marked the Russian attitude, despite the commitments made with the entry into the WTO. Of course, as Vice Minister Calenda also said in reply to a parliamentary question on the subject that we are dealing with today, we must not channel political action along the path leading to the escalation of trade retaliation, aware how we are of the risks that our exporters run in terms of direct and immediate damage. That is why, as the Minister has said authoritatively today, we need to modulate the entry into force and suspension of sanctions - I remember President Van Rompuy's recent statements - and a constant monitoring of the situation in fact; we need, as has already been done, to adopt measures to support the sectors most affected by the crisis and to make the best use of the instruments that, for example, the reform of the common agricultural policy has shown to have in order to deal with these situations. The aid for EUR 125 million identified for the most exposed fruit and vegetable sectors or for private storage of cheese, butter and milk powder must meet the requirements of these sectors. All this helps to limit the difficulties of our exporters, without contradicting the political duties of the world's first economic power, which inaugurates the first legislature in which the ambition of the Treaty of Lisbon on the common foreign policy of the European Union, for which Italy has assumed primary responsibility, should become reality. And all of this must encourage the Italian system and its structures in the world to diversify our exports to Russia by strengthening the promotion in sectors not affected by the Russian embargo and by supporting the sectors affected by the embargo with appropriate promotion initiatives on other foreign markets. It is from this perspective that we must look at the agreement with the USA, the agreement with Japan and the resumption of negotiations with Mercosur, Brazil in the first place, which help Europe, if not to return to the center of the geopolitical balances of the world, to maintain its supremacy not only in the capacity to produce wealth, but in knowing how to combine commercial protagonism with the safeguarding of the fundamental rights to peaceful coexistence. With all the limitations of a process of unfinished political and economic integration, the balance with which Europe, and Italy for the European Union, has faced and is facing the crisis are appreciated by us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lanzillotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u11	He is registered to speak Senator Luigi Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have two reasons for concern: the first is due to the matter itself and the second is due to the fact that sanctions against Russia will certainly also hurt Europe and Italy. With regard to the first subject, that is, the question itself, many of us had hoped that with the end of Soviet communism Russia would become not only a trading partner of Europe, but also a political Europe. Instead Russia, especially Putin's, has lost some hair but not the vice of thinking and acting as a solitary imperial power, embellishing what is a real regime of a simulacrum of democracy. The fact is that, when elections are being held, the most dangerous opponents are arrested, the control of the media - even imposing, today, very small quotas on foreign capital in the media - the normalization of public opinion with state murders and the continuing police control over people's lives. The proceeds from the sale of raw materials were then used by Putin's Russia for a robust policy of re-arming. Here we do not want the F-35, but in Russia, in ten years, military spending has increased ten times. So, in the garden of the house, Putin wants to have a free field, doesn't want to have any size, doesn't want to have democracies. Putin's Russia motivates its heavy interference with the same arguments used by Nazism for Gdansk or for the invasion, for example, of Poland. It is already a fact of fact the annexation of Crimea, with the force of Russian support for separatist movements and it is farceous to see columns of armored without Russian insignia and military without monsters. Furthermore, Russia's far from cooperative behaviour with regard to the killing of Malaysia Airlines is ahead of us all. But Russia, like any authoritarian state, exploits Europe's structural weakness, exploits its divisions, exploits the unnerving European integration, slow and too gradual, its having a fiscal compact, but not a single strong army or a single foreign policy: it exploits our weaknesses. The second concern is that a Europe without instruments ends up adopting the most obvious and easiest of retaliations, namely economic sanctions. Economic sanctions in the last century may have been - and they have also been - a deterrent to bad intentions and bad practices for the rogue states and their punishment. They could work for states like Libya, like Cuba, like Iran - more recently - or like South Africa in apartheid, but in the era of the globalised economy, in an increasingly multipolar world, economic retaliation can turn out to be a boomerang for those who implement it. When the sixth world economy is sanctioned, as is the case in this case, when sanctions are circumventable and replaceable, they do not produce traumatic effects and in the end they also give back to those who sanction. Of course, the sanctions of Europe and the United States on Russia will have and are already having a strong impact, so much so that, as the Minister said, they will worsen Russian GDP growth forecasts for 2014, for 2015 and perhaps for the years to come, with an increase in prices and monetary turbulence that will have a hard impact on the rouble. It would therefore be wrong and instrumental not to acknowledge that the effects of economic sanctions are partly at the basis of the precarious ceasefire that exists today between Ukraine and Russia, but, as the Minister recalled, the interconnection between the economic area of the European Union and that of Russia poses serious risks for both of them. The Minister has defined the impact of sanctions and retaliation on Italy with a loss of exports at the moment around 200 million, between 100 million retaliation and 100 million sanctions, but we know how to start and we never know how to end up in these events. I would add that compared to other markets - and I am thinking of the Middle East - the Russian market was perceived by Italian entrepreneurs as a market with stable prospects. There is a way to produce effective sanctioning effects, but we Europeans do not have our hands tied, not so much on oil, but on gas: Russia also has its hands tied on gas. Russia would suffer greatly, for example, from the closure of gas pipeline taps, but so would we. Thanks to the absurd energy policies of the last decades, our country is always with the knife at the throat in order to energy supplies. Therefore, whether there is a stable scenario or if this scenario becomes more pessimistic, a significant impact of our decisions invites us to use only one noun: prudence. Prudence, because retaliation for retaliation ends up hurting us alone, reducing our export, reducing our GDP and opening the Russian market to our new competitors. As for the compensations mentioned by the Minister, we note what has been said, but it has a grotesque taste to sanction, on the one hand, one state and, on the other, to replace these sanctions with public money because these sanctions have resulted in retaliation on our companies. We must therefore be aware that the road to sanctions is not the right one, that authoritativeness and even fear is acquired with a truly united Europe, with the United States of Europe, with a common army and with a common foreign policy. At this point we must work to restore security in Europe and between Europe and Russia. We must put the patient in place for a diplomatic exit, and above all we must try to achieve mutual conveniences for good and freedom on our continent. [[Applause from the PI and SCPI Groups and the Russian Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened with great interest to the information of the Minister for Economic Development and we are certainly concerned about what is happening. The press reports that have been chasing each other for some time now tell us of a hard blow for Made in Italy and for our producers, who for years have been linked by commercial relations especially with Russia. Russia's reaction to the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union has led to a loss of value for Italian exports, whose data are rather contradictory. So much so that if you, Mrs. Minister, talk about an estimated loss of around 100 million euros, we get data from the trade associations of the sectors from textiles to food, to the technological machinery, which speak instead of a damage that stands at around several billion euros. Not to mention that we read from today's press - she herself admitted - that the Russian-Ukrainian crisis will bring an increase in electricity and gas bills by 5.4 percent. This means that, at a time when our families are already tested and suffer from a constant decrease in their purchasing power, there will be a further decrease in consumption. There is no doubt, therefore, that Italy's alignment with the European Union's sanctions policy is worsening the already difficult situation of many of our companies. Madam Minister, I think it should be made clear then that the policy of economic sanctions that the European Union has followed so far to try to resolve the crisis, or, to the limit, to contain it, has proved rather ineffective, and it is easy to predict that the threats of further tightening, coming from Germany and the United Kingdom, will certainly not lead to anything concrete, if anything, to a worsening. Like all the countries subject to sanctions, Russia will also find its alternatives - for what we know it is already finding them through the channels with Turkey, China or South America - and will still react (as it is already reacting), in the hope that it will not decide to go as far as the gas embargo. Certainly a war of nerves, where everyone hopes that the other does not reach the end. For Italy, which has suffered all this probably in order not to weaken Mogherini's candidacy as European Commissioner, this policy represents only high costs for our companies and for our Italy system. The question should be asked whether political action has really been attempted through the instruments of international law and the peace talks with the representatives of the conflicting factions, trying to find a peaceful solution capable of obtaining the consent of Moscow and Kiev. The doubt is, Mrs. Minister, that we Italians are fighting someone else's war. The United States and its market, since 2009, are experiencing their most important strategic reorganization after the events of 11 September. America, which has already gained virtual energy independence thanks to shale gas, is increasingly disinterested in the southern area and reorganises itself towards markets where economic expansion will continue for the next few years: we refer to Asia. Ratifying trade agreements, such as TTIP, of which little and nothing is spoken in Italy (and on which perhaps a more serious debate should be opened) allows the United States to take advantage of the economic expansion of Asian countries and to reduce the volume of trade flows of these countries towards its competitors, first of all China. This is the strategy of the American foreign policy of emargination: to ensure its presence in a strategic area as fundamental as the Pacific and to penetrate as much as possible into the Asian market to erode China's development. We wonder whether it is right to emulate the strategic interests of the United States without claiming our specificity. What is the EU's trade strategy? What is Italy's interest in aligning itself with some sort of economic NATO with the United States, putting our face in front of other diplomatic partners? Have we forgotten what happened in Libya, where France went ahead and we aligned ourselves by losing our relations with Libya itself, resulting in serious damage to our companies that held commercial activities there? Not to mention everything that is happening and that is before everyone's eyes. What is the EU's trade strategy towards China? The Minister, in his speech, spoke to us several times about monitoring, but the Government, which certainly has a duty to monitor, also has a duty, then, to govern the processes. Madam Minister, we can only tell you that Europeans insist on looking towards America, while America looks elsewhere. Ours is a doubt, we would like to discuss these things and not give them to settle, according to the classical pro-Western demagogy. We certainly do not want to question our relations with the United States, nor so much history that we have gone through together, but we have the duty, and the Government has the duty first of all to protect the interests of the Italians. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks the Holy Father has defined the historical passage that we are living as a creeping Third World War. ISIS, the Ukraine issue, the new tensions between Israel and Palestine represent only the most well-known conflicts, those at the centre of media attention. These clouds filled with pitfalls and threats to peace and brotherhood among peoples are a source of concern to all. At the Vilnius Summit of the parliamentary delegations of the NATO member countries, to which I took part as a member of the Italian delegation, there was a very heavy climate, with the countries bordering Russia asking the other NATO member countries for a policy of strong condemnation after the events that affected the Crimean peninsula. There is a great deal of concern, especially among the countries bordering the conflict areas, once within the Soviet Federation, which fear an increase in Russian influence and a gradual and underground loss of sovereignty. The path taken since the beginning of the crisis by the European Union may seem fragile and contradictory, but it is the only way forward. A very narrow path that, however, we must try to follow. That is why, even now, we must be able to explain to the public that Europe is not weak, but responsible, because what has happened in Russia must be placed in an overall scenario and with all its historical significance. We are faced with a reorganization of international balances, the most important since the fall of the Berlin Wall to the present day. In the backlight you can see his physiognomy. It is a world that assumes multipolar appearances and with different centers of gravity. The United States and the European Union; Russia and China, but also India and the whole range of emerging countries, such as Brazil or South Africa, which are beginning to expand their areas of influence. In this world, peace among peoples is certainly not cultivated by showing the muscles, by apedoming a cold war logic, of a world thought of around two great superpowers. We must put in place a policy and diplomacy that finds a balance between not creating a feeling of encirclement or isolation of the Russians and the ability to assert the reasons of democracy, of the rights of the people, of peace. Italy must return to being one of the countries of the old Europe and the Atlantic Alliance that best interpret this role, and the appointment of Federica Mogherini as European Commissioner confirms this mission and all its importance. It's not a simple game. I am witness, as an elected senator in Trentino, to the repercussions that sanctions are having on the economic and productive fabric of my territory. In your speech, Minister, you described this very well, highlighting how our country is the second largest trading partner in the European Union, Russia. Thank you for the frankness with which you described the situation. I am also refreshed by his words about the energy supply and autonomy that our country has, despite amounts from Russia much of its gas. However, I cannot help but be concerned about the agri-food sector which, on several occasions in this House and in the Commission, we have defined as a key sector for the country's economic recovery. I therefore believe that if we want the importance of sanctions to be understood by the public, we must prevent the institutions from dumping the entire economic and social cost of the embargo on society and on the economic and productive fabric. The aid package provided for by the European Union is important, but before we judge it, we are waiting to know it. However, I would like to make an appeal to you immediately: I have heard about the damage to the fruit and vegetable sector, which is also heavy in our territory, but the damage to the dairy sector, particularly for grain, is also important. In addition to the European package, Italy must, however, provide for transitional forms of support for those who are currently experiencing significant losses, identical to those planned for those territories on which exceptional events, such as earthquakes, natural disasters or the like, occur. Why, then, do we not foresee some form of tax relief or delay in relation to the time of payment of taxes? It is a demand that comes from various European production realities: I am thinking, for example, of Greek farmers, since the Russian market absorbed 60% of the production of peaches and other agricultural products. We must avoid the risk that the Russian crisis may generate some form of recession that is greater than the damage already caused by the drastic decrease in exports to those countries, and, as you said, we must help our companies to focus on other markets, starting with the US one, but companies alone cannot manage to generate a partial conversion of their trade flows and distribution chains. It is a complex and evolved market that can only be attacked through a complex strategy of promoting Made in Italy. I believe, in the light of what you said, that the Expo of Milan takes on a new role and plays a new role, as a time to make known, starting from the preparatory meetings, our product towards new countries. I believe that the other way we can help our agriculture is to favour all those companies that focus on process and product innovation, because only with an increasingly high-quality Made in Italy, we will be able to look at new markets, to maintain the primacy in our markets in comparison with other European companies that will start looking towards Italy. To conclude, kind Minister, I believe that in this matter the European Union is playing a lot of its internal and external credibility: external for the reasons of geopolitics I said earlier; internal because if sanctions are not followed by a serious aid policy that is not only of an economic nature, but that also accompany the efforts of our companies to aim for new markets, all this will be a bad spot for the Union. Let us not forget that the twenty anti-Europeans have never stopped blowing and the elections last May confirmed this to us. We play a lot; we make the right moves, we make them quick. On Thursday in Catania, the summit of the parliamentary delegations of the NATO countries meets. On that occasion I will reiterate these concepts, together with the fact that Italy must take on this role more forcefully in Europe about the possibility of providing aid quickly. Let us not forget that we are still in the six months leading the European Union and that our country has the leadership of its foreign policy. I repeat: we play a lot; we make the right moves, let's do them quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Ministro for being present in this House. We were already waiting for her a few decades ago, but we did not have a chance to hear her about the well-known electoral events in the House. However, I wonder why you did not come to this House even when Europe decided on economic retaliation to Russia. It would have been interesting if you had explained to us what we were dealing with, just to have some idea of what to say to all the businesses that are sinking. I tell you this, Minister, because we are very concerned. The economic sanctions imposed and then tightened by the European Union, aimed at penalising the Russian economy in a somewhat trivial way, in order to convince Putin to exert pressure on the pro-Russian rebels located east of Kiev, had to put him in a position to give some order in Ukraine; instead, they generated the first side effects as unwanted as they were absolutely predictable. Our Prime Minister, Matteo Renzi, has said that he has studied, in coordination with the United States, a strengthened package of sanctions, hard and full-bodied, which includes financial and economic measures. Too bad that Moscow's response arrived immediately, in particular by the Russian Foreign Minister, who said: If the European Union's new list of sanctions comes into force, there will undoubtedly be a reaction on our part. A reaction, Minister, that has come between head and neck on time. Some say that sanctions against Russia required additional reflection; we also support that. Are we sure our economies will hold up? Are we sure this is the right way to create an area of peace and security in the East? Mr President, Minister, of course we have noticed the haste and superficiality of some European Commission, starting with the Italian one, in proceeding with and taking this decision. Our Movement argues that these sanctions, by whomever they are imposed, will be a damage especially to the regions of the North and in particular in the agricultural, mechanical, electronic, fashion and tourism sectors. We asked you these days, Minister, to show the figures (and you have done so on time); not everyone has the same data as we do about what measures Europe intends to take in order to support our economy, but you told us that we export so much to America and that everything is fine there. We already have a strong crisis, let us at least try not to double it: sanctions against Russia represent a crisis, those of Russia towards us another crisis. You, Minister, promised targeted interventions for the industry and the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and that these interventions would serve to boost the economy: this is your statement. It seems to me that the embargo and its retaliation go in the completely opposite direction and the results are and will be disastrous. Italian exports are expected to slow down by 12 percent in 2014 and 11 percent in 2015. If this trend were confirmed, Italy would lose a total of 2.4 billion exports, of which one billion in instrumental mechanics. The fruit and vegetable sector, whose total export to Russia has a value of 706 million euros, is among the most penalized. In addition to the export crisis, it is measuring itself, as you also mentioned, even with a significant contraction in consumption caused by unfavourable climatic conditions that have slowed down the sale of traditional summer fruit. The dairy sector is also heavily affected. Our products of excellence are firm at the borders, they go back; the same thing happens for other products of excellence, which among other things have rosy the Russian market with huge investments, with a strong marketing to conquer the market, but it is probably all frustrated: I refer to the furniture sector, which especially in Treviso survives thanks to export to Russia, and to agriculture, which is on its knees to obey Obama. Some of our colleagues earlier pointed out that being so succubious about an America, which in this period is looking more at its own affairs than at those of others, is not always positive. Russia has responded to the sanctions of Europe and America with the embargo on fruit, vegetables, meat and fish and Italian products are in black crisis. It will not only be the failure to sell products for billions of euros; our market will be flooded with Polish apples, German milk and French potatoes, all products initially destined for the Russian market and instead will bring down prices in Europe, killing our excellent local productions. This will also happen for all European exports with regard to pigs, pigmeat and processed meat; everything will remain on the production territories and will be introduced into the European market, already reduced to historical limits in domestic consumption. This supply surplus is having a worrying impact on product prices. To try to curb this economic drama, the European Commission is putting in place an aid plan for the penalized products, making available (we have not yet quite understood the amount we are talking about) about EUR 200 million. There have been a lot of calls for refunds on Brussels for almost € 168 million, of which € 145 million only by the Poles; clearly the system has gone down and Brussels has decided to contact each individual State directly with regard to refunds (and here too we will see how and when you will be able to protect our companies). The embargo has gone to penalize sectors of high technology, and above all that type of work that still resisted in Italy thanks to the market and trade with Russia. Not to mention the tourist importance of the Russian market, a tourism that is in crisis and that enjoyed the benefits of these presences. Italy is Russia's second largest trading partner in Europe, after Germany, and the fourth largest in the world. According to ISTAT-Eurostat data, in 2013 Italian exports to the Russian Federation reached their historic peak with 10.8 billion euros. If we were to balance them with a negative trade balance due to our imports from Russia, which are about 20 billion, mainly hydrocarbons and raw materials, the balance would clearly be very negative. Also important is the presence of Italian banks, which often accompany companies in their adventure on this market, especially in the start-up phase. The European Union's anti-Russian financial measures will also stop this type of long-term investment. And do we want to talk about energy, Mrs. Minister? Let's see how much damage this embargo has caused. It seems to me that in this respect we, the country mouse, are playing with a big wild cat. It is a figure this morning that there are increases of 5.4 percent for gas and 1.7% for light. This increase will affect the last quarter of this year for about 20-30 euros per household. Russia has already reduced supplies to Poland, Romania and Slovakia. This could also happen to Italy. You have explained to us how to deal with this situation, but I am not convinced that our storage will have that capacity. Be careful not to play too much with the cat, because former friend Putin, for American and European airlines, has on the table the ban to fly over the Russian territory and actions for the protection of the internal market of the car. And if she hasn't done it yet, in my opinion, it's because Merkel vetoed it. You see, Minister, history, even too remotely, has not taught you a tube, and I am not just referring to gas. The decision to participate actively in the war in Libya had caused some dissent in the government coalition, in which the North League had justified its position raising fears of a possible uncontrolled influx of African refugees, if the war had prolonged. Oh, my God, we weren't right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Gaddafi, in fact, had, in recent years, prevented African refugees from crossing the Mediterranean. We are at the civil war, and that is the result. On that occasion, we became a French colony, so much so that we had declared for this purpose that it was not always saying yes to the strong countries of the European Union that it gained international weight. One billion euros in smoke on that occasion, and 200 million Europe promised them for this embargo. I remind you that the airport Vincenzo Florio of Trapani, for the damages suffered during the military operations in Libya in 2011, when the activities of the port of call were drastically reduced, is still waiting for a compensation of 5 million. We have deflation that damages economies that have a high level of public debt such as Italy. There is a total lack of confidence in this country's real economy. There's no money going around. We are still waiting to see at least a few billion payments from public administration to businesses. The real estate market is on leave. Domestic demand remains weak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u18	Senator Council, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u19	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have waited fifteen days for the Minister's information. Unemployment remains very high. The recession continues to bite, businesses close and growth not even shadow. Now we are talking about increasing VAT from 22 to 23 percent, and from 4 to 10 percent for the facilitated VAT. We have industrial production at -17.5% and unemployment at 13-14 percent, with youth production at almost 50%. We really didn't need this embargo. Mr President, I recall that the last time the President-in-Office of the Council was in the Senate he said that we have a thousand days to do everything he promised. I think, however, that we will have a thousand days of economic crisis, lack of growth and unemployment; we will still have a thousand days when we will not take a strong position on an industrial level, and a thousand days when we will not implement an energy strategy plan; a thousand days when we will do nothing about immigration and we will not do anything about it for young people and pensioners a thousand days when, however, Mr President and Mrs Minister, we will have the opportunity to confront ourselves on the referendums that we have presented, we will have the opportunity to bring Veneto to a referendum for independence, a thousand days when we will also give you free advice, a thousand days when we will hear our breath on the neck. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, when we had the war in Ethiopia some time ago, we suffered the sanctions, but in a rather particular way; perhaps there was no globalisation and we got a little screwed up, as they say. I remember that on that occasion they came by to withdraw the wedding rings in order to finance the war events. Unfortunately, Mr President, Minister, we have already played that gold in the gold exchange and families are in collapse. Therefore, if someone passes by, unfortunately we will not be able to give anything at all! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u20	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u21	I call on you to respect the timetable because we have to go to the House of Deputies for the sitting of Parliament in a joint sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u22	Mr President, from the information given by Minister Guidi we have felt that we are experiencing a very special situation, which will certainly affect the next budgetary and financial manoeuvre. This concerns not only the reasons and effects of the tension with the Russian Federation, but also with other areas of the world; it concerns difficulties that exist with other countries, and the most significant tension, also due to the effects on the security of Italy, our population and individual Italian citizens, which is registered around the Middle East and throughout the Mediterranean basin. In this context, there is not only the question of the contraction of exports, and therefore of Italy's ability to place on the market its own fruit and vegetable productions or those of cheeses, or of the difficulty of acquiring from the Russian Federation a further guarantee on the availability of energy sources immediately usable: it is rather the difficult Italian crisis that worsens due to the effects of international tensions and that, therefore, should be considered. The theme of the themes is the work and, together with it, the productive capacity of the country and to relaunch and regenerate its industrial system. These generalized tensions, among other things, not only affect areas which in general can be more or less affected by the export of Italian products, but they take exactly the natural paths of development of trade relations, and not only of Italy, such as the Middle East, the Mediterranean basin and the Eastern part of Europe. These figures, which - I repeat - will weigh on the economic and financial maneuver of 2015, also weigh on employment developments. There are already some traces, and the data I have, however, correspond substantially to what Mr Guidi said. How do you deal with these problems? First of all - and I say this for the Government, but also for all of us - we must stop sending optimistic messages, because we do not need to be optimistic: we are not in a position to say that growth is ahead of us. It is the third Minister of Economy and Finance who announces the recovery for next year; fortunately, every year it changes and, therefore, does not come to account for the wrong forecasts! However, the truth must be told to the citizens. There are those who say that the President-in-Office speaks directly to the citizens. I do not know if this is true. I only know that if we speak directly to citizens, it is good for citizens to be informed on time of the things that happen. There's a reasoning here. This was done by the Minister who proposed buffer measures. Taking, for example, EUR 120-125 million, which we will lose, we could support fruit and vegetable production, or acquire the production of cheeses and dairy products that we cannot export to markets that are under tension. The issue is that tensions have difficult to calculate both economically and economically as well as in terms of exports. Are we convinced that, in the face of a difficult relationship with Russia, Russian tourism (which is well present in Italy) with the going of time, with the sharpening of tension, with the increase of sanctions and the stiffening of relations will maintain the same level? And with regard to Italian products, even those not subject to embargoes, are we sure that the Russians, who suffer the sanctions of the European Union, will be so inclined to buy Made in Italy products with such compromised international relations? I say this because I believe that foreign policy cannot be made up of sanctions, promises of war, conflicts to be generated and systematically developed whenever there is a reason for disagreement, whenever one thinks of a different world than others think. We must find solutions of a diplomatic nature, we must find compromises that allow the development of good practices of peace, of civil coexistence, of overcoming the reasons for the clash. Otherwise this is a world destined to go from bad to worse. It is a world where one cannot give up thinking: if someone goes to ask for information, they do not seem to be called "good" those of the most nationalist part of Ukraine. The problem of linguistic minorities, ethnic minorities, cultural minorities in a country is a problem that exists in many parts and does not resolve by bombing them or saying: go back to your motherland! We do not say to German-speaking minorities: go back to Austria. On the contrary, we think that the minority should be taken into account so that Italy feels like their country, just like those of Italian language and culture. What about the other linguistic minorities the Catalans, Albanians and others that exist also in our country? How do you solve this kind of problem? It is resolved by beating the culture of separation, the culture of conflict, the xenophobic culture, the racist culture and calling everyone to be different and better. I don't know if we're making the right effort in that part of the world. We are all struck by the violence that is being practised, by men on men, and we know very well that it affects everyone and that it is not with a small help to an economic and productive sector that will solve the problem, also as a side effect that we record on our economy. I suggest that the government, as far as I can, treat this issue with every attention, especially in the field of foreign policy. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u23	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u24	Mr President, I have found the full and clear speech by the Minister, and I would like to thank him for that. It is, however, an intervention that confirms a certain seriousness of the situation, an increasing seriousness and, therefore, confirms our concern. It is clear that the main component of the subject that we are examining is, in my view, political, and this is outside of our discussion today. However, let me make a few comments because, in wishing for a positive development on the ground, which I believe is the wish of our entire Parliament and of this House, we can only work to ensure that this positive development can take place. The ministers responsible for the last NATO summit in Cardiff have spoken about this, Parliament has been informed of the results, but we cannot be content with what has already been said; we must put in motion further dynamics, we must work for Russia to return to choose the terrain of virtuous economic relations with other countries, rather than the isolation resulting from a questionable political interventionism on its neighbours. We must work to ensure that the guiding spirit of the US administration is once again that of the first years of the Obama Presidency, with the national security policy that was then based on a stable and multidimensional relationship with Russia. Work must also be done to ensure that the European Union, linked to Russia by strong mutual convenience on various terrains, plays a key role in dialogue in favour of all international policy. On the other hand, geographical proximity and economic data themselves push or should push the European Union in this direction. I can only remember two figures: the total volume of trade between Russia and the United States in 2013 was about USD 38 billion; the volume between Russia and the European Union in the same period was USD 325 billion, almost ten times more than that of Russia and the United States. This means that the European Union is Moscow's main trading partner. We therefore need a stronger and more decisive role for the Union. Another fact to bear in mind is what economic and international policy analysts have already highlighted several times; the weak effectiveness of economic sanctions and the embargo for resolving international crises, all the more so with a country as strong as Russia. These are the issues that we must bear in mind and, at the same time, we must not hide the fact that the failure to resume a political dialogue, if confirmed, incapable of dictating a shared timetable of progressive and rapid cancellation of mutual economic sanctions, could bring the situation down to involving other sectors of the sector. Mr Guidi spoke about this, but it is clear that the threat of sanctions would be even heavier for our economy if sectors such as machinery, clothing, footwear, furniture and motor vehicles were affected. 16.29 p.m. (Follow Formigoni). It is therefore a subject that deserves the attention and initiative of our Government, especially in this semester. I want to come now, in the second and short part of my speech, to some strictly economic assessments, which I also make as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production. The Russian ban covers numerous specific products belonging to the fruit and vegetable, dairy and meat sectors, with limited exceptions for some products of more difficult supply. Another sector which is highly concerned is fisheries, which is particularly affecting the pelagic industries, as exports of live, fresh and frozen fish have been excluded. I believe that the European Union could also think of other initiatives besides the initial ones put in place. For example, we could also require storage measures for pigmeat and for the crops of watermelons and melons. Medium and long-term action must be taken without delay, including the search for new markets for European Union products. In fact, there is a considerable risk of a definitive substitution of Italian imports with other origins or of an increase in the degree of self-sufficiency by Russia (in this respect an indicator is represented by the Russian requests to Italy, which is traditionally the leader, of machinery and technologies for the storage, storage and processing of agricultural products). In the agri-food sector, the issue is already serious, very serious, especially since Eurostat estimates that the value of imports from the European Union under boycott could be around the worrying amount of over EUR 5 billion. That is why I am returning to call for more active attention from our Government. I have listened carefully to the information provided today by Minister Guidi with great precision and authority but, as we are in the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I cannot help but strongly urge the Commission as a whole, thanking Minister Martina for his commitment, to make use in Europe of the need to support the strategic production sector of agri-food and fisheries with resources not only from agricultural and fisheries funds. I would like to draw attention to the need for a unity of intent and action between Parliament and the Government. In fact, the interventions that can be adopted at European level do not preclude the adoption of measures at a purely national level to protect a sector certainly of excellence of our country, representing as a whole more than 16% of the national gross domestic product and corresponding to about 270 billion euros. For example, and I close with this proposal, it could - and in my opinion should - be recognized the state of crisis and the need to relaunch the fruit and vegetable sector that affects more than 20% of our total agricultural production and is relevant for the socio-occupational impact on the Italian economy. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u25	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u26	Mrs. Minister, I have been relying on this information for weeks, but I must say that I am disappointed, because you have reported data that confirm what is already planned while you can tell us little or nothing about future scenarios. Its Government has acted irresponsiblely at the expense of companies, with particular regard to agri-food companies in Northern Italy, but not only. While the 5 Star Movement asked to report in the Chamber - we were between July and August - on the geopolitical situation that came to be determined in several parts of the world, while the voice of a Russian invasion in Ukraine became increasingly insistent, its Government co-opted Parliament in the forceful deformation of the Constitution and in a melmous wave of decree-laws, in which the Government itself is now bogged down, unable to produce implementing decrees, so that the rules so announced, exhausted the media effect, remain stacked like the cars sold in the FIAT squares. Between July and August the President of the Council saw only his personal objectives: to get his hands on the Senate of the Republic and to place Federica Mogherini as High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Punched by the United States, through the "Wall Street Journal" as too inexperienced and pro-Russian, Federica Mogherini immediately placed herself in the ranks, with public statements against Russia and Putin. The Italian Government, without a parliamentary passage, not even merely informative, went to endorse the sanctions with which the European Union was following the United States. These sanctions are absurd, because they penalise those who implement them. This is demonstrated by Vladimir Putin's reaction: he has not denied us Russian products, he has decreed the embargo on other of our goods. Let me explain it in simple words: "Don't you give us more technology? Worse for you! In fact, keep also cheese, fruit and meat. This happened in early August, while in the Senate the 5 Star Movement pressed to slow down the crazy race of constitutional "de-forms" to deal with real emergencies, at the cost of sacrificing holidays. No, it's not. It's closed fast and fury and so on. But in the following weeks we received the alarm of the companies, the news of the orders cancelled, the first occupational consequences: we are talking about healthy companies, which risked closing or announcing layoffs. The European Union has allocated 125 million aid to the agri-food sector in the face of this disaster. Little, too little! The Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union has been magnified as the divine providence: is this the baby mouse? A little over 100 million throughout the European Union, when the estimated damage was at least 170 million for Italy alone? You, Mrs. Minister, have confirmed this, speaking of 218 million, so an even greater figure. The resources allocated are too few. This shows that someone wanted to make a big voice at the expense of the weak, because Italy is weak, and weak are our agri-food entrepreneurs, who export and manage to do so although choked by the lack of credit, bureaucracy, the euro Â Â strong sizes tailor-made for Germany, bilateral agreements between the European Union and North African countries and the government's inability to support Made in Italy in an appropriate way. On these issues the government should have concentrated its efforts, other than Article 18, which then minimized government sources, saying that it basically affects few workers. But then, why do you make it a weapon of social division? Why are you taking time away from the country for real solutions? Why does no voice stand up for Italian interests? It is not a matter of selfish interests, but of Italy's right to have a future. Mrs. Minister, you mentioned the indirect costs, but did someone in your Dicastery bother to calculate them? You mentioned some well-known data, but you can't even give us estimates about what you're going to be. I am talking about the damage that will arise throughout the chain, for transporters, for the processing industry and for those who will result, as the Minister himself said, from the increased competition that our companies will have on the internal market and on foreign markets. Mrs. Minister, I don't like you saying you're going to take action to compensate for this with more penetration into the American market. Shouldn't you have done that already? Wasn't that your job already? In times of crisis, every wasted opportunity produces the death of businesses and jobs, which then means the death of entrepreneurs and the death of workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Some rumors, even here, close to the government, say or leak that the embargo could be evaded by going through Montenegro, but that means that it will extend the supply chain, that it will increase the logistic costs and that our companies will have to divide their margins with someone else, that it will eat on it. Agri-food was one of the strategic sectors: in times of recession, it had grown by 1% in the first quarter of 2014: instead of cutting down the dry branches and helping to convert the exhausted sectors, you hit agricultural exports. SACE data for 2014-2015 speak of a total loss of value between 938 and 2,400 million and the loss of 9,000 jobs. You've killed these people. It is not surprising that European exports to Russia have reached a value of 150 billion per year, most of which are instrumental mechanical goods, means of transport, chemicals and agri-food products. You said that, Minister: Italy is the second European partner and the fourth world-wide partner for Russia. The aid you are telling us of is insignificant, with the mockery that Poland has thrown itself into perhaps 90 percent of the sums allocated; the outgoing Commissioner, Ciolos, would have committed himself to a new more targeted scheme of intervention, but you do not tell us what he expects today. We need to get out of the limited, emergency and welfare aid when the damage is structural. A market share, in the world governed by the WTO, is not regained with a snap of fingers. This war will have long-term consequences, all of which have yet to be quantified, which will touch on strategic sectors for our economy, such as textiles, which have already seen reductions in orders. We need structural answers. The 5 Star Movement loudly calls for the Government to exit from the self-referentiality with which it has managed these events and with which it is expropriating the Parliament of the function of direction. The government's strategy must be parliamentaryized, if it has one that is not to obey the strong international powers. We call for timely government communications and the possibility of putting in acts of direction, such as resolutions or motions. Our first proposals are already contained in a motion that commits the Government to adopt every necessary intervention, even in Europe, to face the economic situation, to the eventual purchase of the products rejected, promoting its use in alternative markets, in canteens intended for civil servants but also for poor, needy and migrants. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator, because we have a tight schedule. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Half a minute more, President, and I'm done. Moreover, the motion commits the Government to adopt financial interventions aimed at facilitating and promoting the structural context of the agri-food sector, as well as careful and scrupulous supervision of the extent of claims from third countries, calling into question the rules of international trade. I know that this motion cannot be fully discussed and voted on today, since the formula of information has been chosen instead of the Government's communications. I trust, however, that it will be promptly scheduled and that, for once, the personal needs of President Renzi, whatever they may be, to compact or split his majority, will give way to the real priorities of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u28	Madam President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, Russia's economic sanctions against the European Union are nothing more than a response to the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia, and this has considerable political and economic implications for Italy. From a political point of view, we are inexorably moving away from that atmosphere of rapprochement between Russia and the West which had been consecrated more than ten years ago by the Rome Declaration, signed in practice by the 19 countries of NATO, on the one hand, and Russia, on the other. The Pratica di Mare agreement is considered an unprecedented agreement, strongly wanted by our President of the Council Berlusconi. NATO, created to defend itself against the Soviet enemy, inaugurates a Council of 20 which includes Russia, with the aim of intervening on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and fighting united against the common enemy, terrorism. That agreement, probably not fully understood by the Italian left, ended half a century of the Cold War and inaugurated a new unified vision of world balances, with a view to strengthening European defence and security policy. Today, however, we find ourselves in a serious situation in which the irresponsible decisions of the American summits, NATO and the European Union are canceling all the efforts made to reach that agreement and all the results achieved since 2002; especially at a delicate time when new terrorist threats become increasingly concrete and destabilising. Russia is a key partner in the defence of the West against all terrorist entities who are taking advantage of the implosion of their sovereign states to establish new states of terror. Not only does Russia sit as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and in this respect, it has the opportunity to veto any decision and block the Council, but it is crucial because - I repeat - it shares common values with the Western world to counter global threats. Moreover, I would like to make just a brief mention of what Piero Ostellino writes in an editorial on the "Corriere della Sera" in early September on the importance of the historical reasons on which the relations between Ukraine and Russia are based: "Moscow, since the days of the Tsars, was obsessed with siege syndrome and the relationship with its borders has always been a sensitive nerve. Ukraine has always fallen into the Russian zone of influence and sanctions against it are seen in an anti-Russian way. From an economic point of view, the negative repercussions for our economy and our companies are immense and evident. Italy is Russia's second largest trading partner in Europe, after Germany, and the fourth largest in the world. The trade embargo is suicide for us. We are in a recession that holds in a grip the entire Italian production system, and the only driving force to trace the china at this moment is represented by exports, since domestic demand for consumption is almost nothing. The latest August ISTAT data on trade outside the borders of the European Union shows an alarming situation: in August of this year, Italian exports to Russia decreased by 16.3% compared to a year ago. Not only is the agri-food sector shaking the Made in Italy, on which there is an embargo that for Italy has for now resulted in a loss of 700 million euros, but also - as you said, Mrs. Minister - the footwear, luxury and technology sector. In addition, restrictions on financing important banks and companies risk pushing large Russian companies to financial institutions in other countries willing to finance them. But, in the end, the objective of sanctions, that is to force Russia to respect the Ukrainian integrity, considering the territorial annexations illegitimate, certainly does not have its effects, because the Russian market finds alternative outlets. The Russian ambassador to Italy reminds us of this in his speech last week in Turin, in which he pointed out that Russia is able to face the sanctions by addressing other partners, starting from China, but without neglecting Korea, South Africa, Latin America, from the technological-industrial sector to the agro-food sector. New partners who, over time, risk becoming strategic, supplanting Italian suppliers. Another strategic area for us affected by the sanctioning regime is tourism. ENIT estimates that in 2013 the Russian Federation was at the top of the ranking for the application for entry visas in Italy: 36 percent of the total requests came, precisely, until last year, from Russia. A considerable amount that has reached 770,000 demands. A country, ours, that with increasing trends, attracts thousands of visitors of Russian nationality for years, and that now suffers a contraction of presences in the national territory of 22 percent. This is always confirmed by the Russian ambassador, who declares that sanctions are a damage to tourism, in fact many Russian tour operators have already identified a decrease in tourism flows. One thing not to be underestimated is that Russia responds counter-sanctions to our sanctions. In addition to trade retaliation, i.e. restrictions on imports from countries that have imposed sanctions, it may decide to take further measures. Among the potentially most harmful ones, no doubt, there is the closure of the energy taps. Our gas supply, which is mandatory for Ukraine from Russia, and which corresponds to 40% of our needs, could suddenly be interrupted if Russia decides to do so. And to date we cannot rely on alternative supplies because they are still on paper and not of immediate realization. Meanwhile, today is the news of rising prices for energy and gas and it is not mysterious that tensions in Ukraine have contributed to the rise. I hope, on behalf of my Group, that, in the appropriate forums, a conscious reflection will be opened up on the negative effects of sanctions not only in economic terms, but also in relation to international scenarios, in an attempt to put an end to this irresponsible sanctioning policy, also taking into account recent developments in the ceasefire that Ukraine and Russia have come to. Finally, I hope that our country will play a more incisive role in the international and European fora in which the political lines are decided, or as in these cases the economic sanctions, towards the Russian Federation, fully restoring the spirit of Practice of the Sea of 2002. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u29	Senator Tomaselli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u30	Madam President, we have appreciated the detailed and timely information that Mr Guidi has presented to us, confirming a complex affair whose origin, in the debate that preceded our speech, seems to have been lost in confidence. With an initiative that has been taken not by our country and our Government alone, but completely unitedly by the European Union, the European Union has shown firmness and determination in the unanimous condemnation of Russia's behaviour and the unacceptable violations of international law put in place. And the sanctions that the European Union has decided to apply to Russia are not an end in themselves, as someone imagines, but they have the objective of favouring, even in such a complicated context, a political solution to the heavy Russian interference in the serious Ukrainian crisis. The response to Moscow's aggression could only be hard and incisive and represents a consequent explanation of the concept of collective defense and mutual assistance From the outset, the European Union has been aiming for a lasting ceasefire on both sides, a halt to the entry of arms and military personnel and no more hostages in that area. Of course, the wish of all of us today can only be that we can come as soon as possible to withdraw measures and to share positions between the European Union and Russia, but this solution must be conditional on a lasting and effective ceasefire and on the achievement of a peace plan for the whole area. That this is still a goal far from final achievement confirms yesterday's news: despite the truce in force since September 5, nine other Ukrainian soldiers and at least four civilians died in the previous 24 hours in the clashes between army and rebels in the Philippines. About 60 people have died since the ceasefire came into force. In this scenario we cannot talk about dissent, as I have also heard. Rather, it is a country's attempt to occupy another sovereign country. In this scenario they cannot be underestimated - and we do not underestimate them, as the Minister, on behalf of the Government, has just represented - the serious repercussions that sanctions have had and are having on our economy. On the other hand, we know that Russia remains an important and strategic actor at global level, for our country and for the European Union. In fact, Putin's response to the sanctions imposed on Russia by the European Union and the United States led to the immediate blocking, for at least one year, of many agri-food products and other types of products. A move that is already making its negative impact on many countries of the European Union and also on some of our most significant productions. In this regard, the Minister has made a very detailed statement, I repeat. For our country it is a serious and concrete risk, represented precisely by the large share of exports of Italian food products, a sector in which Russian counter-sanctions have concentrated. Several of our productions see their main market right in that area. The impact of these measures could be substantial, not only because of the figures - which we well know are still limited, as the Minister told us - but because they come at a time of economic weakness and financial crisis, in particular bearing in mind that export is for our country, at this stage, one of the main pieces of our economy. A situation that, in addition to economic losses, risks bringing with it the compromise of commercial relations that were being consolidated in the past months and years, starting precisely from the agro-food sector, in particular from the fruit and vegetable sector. Many companies have seen and managed Russia as a market with long-term prospects, and they have invested there. We are aware that this crisis is probably still at the mercy of another much more serious crisis, which we all hope can be blocked as soon as possible. The Russian embargo can cover other sectors, starting with clothing, fashion, textiles, footwear, leather goods (one of the traditional sectors of our Made in Italy). But the tourism sector can also reverberate negative consequences. In short, although at the moment the consequences in terms of the economic and financial impact of the Russian counter-sanctions adopted so far are limited for our country, we can only join the wish and commitment that our Government is putting at this stage so that there is the swiftest lifting of sanctions on both sides, also in the light of the distensive signs, which have not been lacking in these weeks and months, so that we can achieve a peaceful solution that brings back the balance for the structure of relations between Europe and Russia, and to prevent the impact of the embargo from having an even more sensitive impact. It agrees with Europe, but I think I can say that it probably pays even more to Russia itself, which, let us remember, imports as much as 40% of its annual food needs from the United States and the European Union. The loss to Moscow will be even more serious and could take on even greater dimensions than those suffered by Italian, European and US products. Promoting the domestic food market for Russia is in fact very expensive and, at the moment, the Russian economy is experiencing a situation of serious difficulty. This is demonstrated by inflation around 8%, the decline in real incomes in existence for some time, the increasingly weaker rouble, as well as a net loss denounced by the Russian government's own men of investment and a flight of foreign capital from their country. In short, we are at a confrontation in which Europe, the United States and our country, but especially Russia, have much to lose. Hence the call for responsibility, for a common effort, for this crisis to emerge as quickly as possible with a strategy of peace and diplomatic relations that can overcome the serious difficulties. There is also another strategic approach that we cannot fail to mention. Among the most strategically important assets for both Italy and Europe are those related to the energy sector, in particular gas, which is strategic for Europe and Italy. None of us can give up, not even Russia, which would have great difficulty in interrupting supplies to the West. In 2013 over 40% of national consumption was covered by Russian gas, a source of which our country unfortunately cannot help. The volume of trade is so high that it is technically impossible to stop production at any moment; therefore, despite the fears that arise, it can easily be assumed that this sector will not be affected by this escalation of sanctions and counter-sanctions. However, this allows us to be able to reaffirm with absolute clarity how it is strategically more and more necessary for our Country and for the same Europe diversify the sources of supplying, as are increasingly strategic new supplyings and new infrastructures. I am thinking of the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, which will bring gas from other regions to Italy and Europe; I also think it would be useful to rethink the Italian participation in the Southstream pipeline, given the delicacy that this relationship has with Russia and also with its most important player, Gazprom. We are faced with serious difficulties, which in recent weeks we have not failed to denounce, in relation to the state of crisis of our companies. Other colleagues have done so: I am thinking of the motion tabled by Mr Puppato and other colleagues from Veneto, denouncing the difficulty of the agri-food sector. This level of difficulty is clear to us, but I would like to say that Kiev's choice, which has been reiterated in recent days by the Ukrainian President, to officially request membership of the European Union in 2020 confirms that we are at a crucial step in the history of this part of the world, which - I can say this - goes far beyond the current dispute. It is a crucial step, with extraordinarily important reflections from every point of view. Europe, and Italy with it, precisely because of the responsibilities it holds in these months, has a decisive role in governing such a delicate phase, promoting a more advanced balance between geopolitical realities and economic powers as large and important as the old Continent and Russia itself, knowing however that there is no political realism or economic interest that can be privileged compared to indispensable principles such as respect for human rights, the intangibility of the borders of an autonomous State, peace and the rejection of all violence and the use of force. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u31	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Economic Development.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u32	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-320.ana.u33	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 1 October 2014, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
