ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). I recall that the Minutes of the sitting of Monday, 23 December were not approved at the sitting of Saturday, 28 December 2013. The Minutes of the sitting of Monday 23 December should therefore be approved before the Minutes of the sitting of 28 December are read. Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the sitting of Monday 23 December 2013 are hereby approved. The Minutes of the sitting of 28 December 2013 should therefore be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 28 December 2013. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there are no comments, the Minutes of the sitting of 28 December 2013 are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1188. The rapporteurs, Senators Olivero and Fornaro, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Olivero.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u5	Mr President, Minister, draft law No 1188, which I shall now outline in summary terms, provides for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 laying down urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the alienation of public buildings and the Bank of Italy. Before moving on to the content of the measure, I should first of all like to thank all the Members of the Commission, starting with the President, who have cooperated in the fruitful analysis and definition of the text, which has been significantly amended on a number of points - as Senator Fornaro will explain - to the satisfaction of many Groups and, I believe, in the interest of the common good. The contribution of various institutional and non-institutional bodies to the Commission's work has also been very important in this work. The importance of the issues dealt with in the decree - which does not escape anyone - has led us to work with great caution, to listen to all the interested parties and to reflect on the objections that have been raised as a matter of course. In this regard, although we did not return to dealing with issues that had already been resolved in this House several weeks ago, in the debate on the constitutional prejudices, we paid particular attention to the strict maintenance of the appropriateness of the matter dealt with in the decree, in any case trying to preserve the text from improper amendments. This did not prevent, however, that the comparison was broad and open, as was necessary, given the circumstances. I will now explain the text, subdividing the observations according to the three themes that constitute the object of the bill: IMU, disposals and Banca d'Italia. As regards the first part, the decree-law, in Article 1, contains provisions on experimental municipal tax, the IMU precisely, and provides that for the year 2013, the second instalment of the tax for a wide series of buildings is not due, except then the provisions of the following paragraph 5, in analogy with what already established for the abolition of the first instalment of the same charge. It was a commitment that is precisely being maintained. This paragraph provides that any difference between the amount of the IMU resulting from the application of the rate and deduction referred to in paragraph 1, resolved or confirmed by the Municipality for the year 2013 and, if less, that resulting from the application of the basic rate and deduction provided for by the State rules, must be paid by the taxpayer by 16 January 2014, to an extent equal to 40%. On this point, I would like to stress that it has been the Commission's responsibility to make proposals to reduce the inconvenience, at least on payment deadlines, of these balances. In this respect, the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU first home for 2013 is not guaranteed in municipalities that have raised the base rate, the difference of which will still have to be paid 40% by citizens. Paragraph 2 reiterates that for agricultural land and rural buildings other than those identified in paragraph 1 the exemption from payment of the second instalment of the IMU does not apply. With paragraph 3 resources are allocated for the year 2013 equal to €2,164 million for the return to the municipalities of the lower IMU revenue deriving from the abolition referred to in paragraph 1. A share of these resources (1,729 million euros) is allocated, pursuant to paragraph 4, to the Municipalities of the Regions with Ordinary Statute, of Sicily and Sardinia, by December 20, 2013, to the extent resulting from Annex A, while paragraph 8 regulates the compensation for the Municipalities of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Valle d'Aosta Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. Paragraph 6 refers to a decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance for the settlement of the compensatory contribution of 348 million euros. If the decree recognizes to the Municipality amounts greater than those due from the application of the rates and the deduction, deliberated or confirmed for the year 2013, the surplus must be destined by the Municipality to reduce the municipal taxes due on the same buildings for the year 2014, as from paragraph 7. Paragraph 10 authorizes the Minister of Economy and Finance to make, with his own decrees, the necessary changes of the budget and paragraph 11 authorizes the Municipal beneficiaries of the compensatory transfer to make the necessary changes of the budget by 15 December 2013, while paragraph 12 increases for the year 2014 the maximum limit of recourse from the local authorities to treasury advances, until the date of 31 March 2014, from three to five twelfths. Article 2 in paragraph 1 increases to 128.5% the measure of the IRES and IRAP deposit for the tax period running at 31 December 2013 for credit, financial and insurance institutions and for the Bank of Italy. With regard to the same subjects, paragraph 2 provides - for the tax period in progress at 31 December - an additional IRES rate of 8.5 percentage points. With regard to this additional, paragraph 3 provides for specific provisions for entities that have exercised the option for group taxation and for tax transparency. Paragraph 4 extends the deadline for the payment of the second or only installment of IRES down payment, providing that the second or only installment of IRES down payment due for the current tax period at 31 December 2013 is paid by 10 December 2013. Paragraph 5 introduces, with effect from the year 2013, the payment of a 100 per cent deposit by 16 December of each year from the entities applying the substitute tax referred to in Article 5 of Legislative Decree No 461 of 21 November 1997 (administrated savings scheme). Finally, paragraph 6 of the same Article 2 amends the safeguard clause contained in paragraph 4 of Article 15 of Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013 with regard to the revenue expected from VAT and the definition facilitated in appeal of judgments of administrative and accounting responsibility. Coming to the scope of the disposals, paragraph 1 of Article 3 provides that to the disposals of real estate referred to in Article 11-d of Decree-Law No 203 of 2005 - and therefore to the sale, even in bulk, of real estate for non-housing use belonging to the public heritage - the provisions that allow the sanatoria of irregularities after the transfer are applied. Paragraph 2, in letter a), allows the Agency of the property, subject to permission of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to sell in private negotiation also in block also the real estate for mainly non-housing use belonging to the public heritage, while letter b) extends the mechanism of disposal to the real estate of the territorial authorities. Finally, the third part, of course the most important part, relates to the Bank of Italy; this is the subject on which the Commission's attention, as well as public opinion, has focused most on following the path of this decree. The decree, to paragraph 1, reaffirms what already established in the Statute of the Bank of Italy, that is that the Bank is an institution of public law and, to paragraph 2, previews a revaluation of the capital from the current value of euro 156.000 to the value of 7,5 billion euros. As you know, this is the crucial issue at the moment of the epochal turning point that is taking place in the roles of the national central banks, also in relation to the new tasks of the European Central Bank; Italy risked, without such intervention, entering with the least capitalised bank in Europe. The Finance Committee has made to the part of the decree relating to the Bank of Italy few, but significant changes, which will then be indicated with precision, especially on two important points: the Italianity and independence of the Bank, going to put in the text guarantee elements concerning the lowering from 3 to 5% of the roof on the possession of the shares of the Bank of Italy, held directly or indirectly by the quotists of the Bank of Italy, thus allowing the enlargement of the audience of the members and giving the possibility to the top council to assess the presence of professionalism and goodness requirements of the incoming subjects and their compañeros with a right of veto, thus going in some way to put in place statutory and legislative guarantees that armify the guarantee of the goodness of the National Institute. As far as Italianity is concerned, it was specified in the same amendment that quotist entities must have their registered office and central administration in Italy and no longer also in a Member State of the European Union other than Italy as it was in the previous text. Finally, the Commission extended the transitional period from 24 months to 36 months. During this period, the Bank of Italy will be able to purchase its shares temporarily and to conclude contracts covering them, in order to facilitate compliance with the limits of particularly low capital participation, as I have also indicated following the Commission's work. Entering further in detail, Article 6, paragraph 1, replaces Article 114 of the Royal Decree of 28 April 1910, n. 204, with which a representative of the Government is expected to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and the Council of the Bank of Italy, abolishing the power of suspension and annulment by the government delegate on the resolutions of the Assembly and the Council. Paragraph 2 repeals a number of provisions which are incompatible with the changes made to the rules of the Bank of Italy by Articles 4 and 5. Further repeals are provided for by paragraphs 3 and 4: among these, the rule (paragraph 10 of Article 19 of Law No 262 of 2005), which provides by regulation the redefinition of the ownership structure of the Bank of Italy and the identification of the modalities of transfer of shares of participation to the capital of the Bank of Italy in possession of subjects other than the State or other public bodies. Paragraph 5 provides for the adaptation of the Statute of the Bank of Italy to the provisions introduced by the text in question, within six months of their entry into force. Paragraph 6 provides that - starting from the current year on the date of entry into force of the text in question - the shares of participation in the capital of the Bank of Italy are placed in the section of the activities destined to the negotiation to the same registration values that they had in the section of origin. Finally, Articles 7 and 8 contain the final provisions. Article 7 contains provisions for coordination in the field of excise duties: in particular, for the purposes of implementing the provisions of letters e-a ) and e-b) of paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Decree-Law No 91 of 2013, it clarifies that the increases in excise duty provided for therein refer to the rates of excise duty as determined by Article 25 of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013. Finally, Article 8 provides for the financial coverage of the measure by providing in particular that the coverage of the burdens brought about by Articles 1 and 2 (quantified as a total of €2,163,097 million for the year 2013 and €1,500,653 million for the year 2014) is ensured by the increased revenues deriving from the same Article 2. I would like to stress once again that the text before the House today has been greatly improved by the work done in the Commission, although it remains essentially appropriate to the original text. In particular, in the opinion of the rapporteurs it is totally adequate to provide those guarantees of transparency, autonomy and adequacy necessary to continue to ensure Bankitalia's strategic and central role in our country and in the advanced economies of the world. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with Mr Olivero, it has been decided to divide the report into two parts because we believe that, even with regard to a lot of inappropriate information spread over the past few weeks, it is right to take this opportunity to take advantage of Parliament's serious work on this decree-law and the willingness of the Minister and Secretary-General Baretta - whom we thank - to make a real comparison in a real and correct dialectical relationship between the Government and Parliament. The text that we are asking the House to approve has been radically changed, following the adoption of a number of amendments, in some parts that I will now try to describe; certainly not in the part relating to the IMU, and it could not be otherwise since we basically intervene almost ex post: already on 16 December last year the second instalment of the IMU was not paid by the owners of the main houses. An important work, in my opinion, has been done on Article 3 which, as has been mentioned, relates to the application for regular sanatorium relating to the sale of public buildings which can be submitted within 12 months of the act of transfer of the property. In addition, a number of elements have been included in the Commission's examination which go in the right direction, with maximum transparency and, I believe, with the utmost attention to those who can buy. In other words, the prohibition of alienation has been inserted to companies whose structure does not allow the identification of the natural persons or companies that hold the property and control of them; the prohibition of the use of anonymous companies that are abroad for the purchase of real estate has been inserted; the parties condemned by irrevocable judgment for tax and tax offences have been excluded from the private negotiation, the disposition, the daughter of a serious confrontation in the Commission that has been concluded accepting, in particular, some solicitations arrived (not only, but mainly) from the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (I believe it is right to give notice); moreover, collecting a solicitation coming from the Mixed-SEL Group, it is expected that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities will have to identify within 12 months, also evaluating reports coming from Regions, local authorities and associations, the goods of relevant environmental interest for which it is considered priority to maintain the property of the State. I therefore believe that, with regard to the original text which dealt with the question of the problems relating to the sanatories of regularity after purchase, there has been a positive enrichment of the regulatory forecast in the aforementioned direction. The most intense work has been done on Article 4, relating to the capital of the Bank of Italy. On this point, I believe that one aspect needs to be highlighted. Everyone's commitment in the Commission has been to maintain and guarantee the independence and autonomy of the Bank of Italy, which - I would like to reiterate here - remains an institution governed by public law. It is the central bank of the Italian Republic, an integral part of the European system of central banks, and - of course - the competent national authority in the single supervisory mechanism. Therefore, there has been no privatisation, even with respect to newspaper articles that we have read in recent weeks, but in the wake of the decree the current balance that has guaranteed the autonomy and independence of the Bank of Italy to date, prerogatives that we consider a sort of inalienable common good is confirmed. It should also be noted that the matter of credit and financial supervision is still excluded from the powers of the Board of Governors elected by the quotients. In particular, significant changes have been made to the initial installation. The first of these concerns those persons who may hold shares in the capital of Banca d'Italia: while in the original text it opened up the possibility that they could be quotists of the Bank of Italy and could hold shares also entities having headquarters and central administration in a Member State of the European Union, after the work of the Commission, both as regards banks and as regards insurance and reinsurance undertakings, they must have their registered office and central administration in Italy. In addition to these, as already in the original decree, will be able to hold shares of participation of the Bank of Italy foundations of banking origin, institutions and institutions of pension, insurance and pension funds. On this point there has been a long comparison during the hearings we held in the Commission: I recall that in a few days the Governor of the Bank of Italy Visco, the Director-General of the ABI, ANIA, ANCI were audited and finally, in a long and extensive hearing, the Minister of Economic Affairs too. Already in the original text, also in relation to this subject, the pleasing clause had been removed. However, we have considered, with the work of the Commission, to include the possibility for the Board of Governors of the Bank of Italy to verify the recurrence of the requirements of good repute in relation to the representatives and the social structure of the purchasing parties (which can obviously also be foreign, but not only) with regard to their respective systems of belonging; if these requirements were not met - this is the inclusion that I consider important - the Council can cancel the sale of quotas. In the original text, however, it was limited to repealing the pleasing clause and limiting the verification to compliance with the participatory limits alone. In addition, in view of a completely shared choice, already contained in the original text, to expand the number of entities that can hold the shares and, therefore, not to allow any more dominant positions, as is currently the case as a result of the processes that have been acquired and reaggregated in the banking system, each participant will not be able to own, directly or indirectly, a share of the capital that had initially been defined by 5% and that, after the Commission's work, has been further lowered to 3%. The Government, which has accepted this request, has also been asked to refer, with regard to the calculation of indirect participation (difficult theme), to the definitions of control dictated by the systems of sector of the quotists. Finally, there is another very important issue: precisely to assist this phase of transition from the current condition, which sees two subjects holding in fact almost 60% of the shares of the Bank of Italy, to a system that, at the end of the journey, will no longer see any subject possessing more than three percent of the quotas, in the original text was expected and continues to be a role of the same Bank of Italy (in this transitional period that we have expanded to 36 months) with the temporary purchase of the quotas. This will have to be done in such a way as to ensure transparency, equal treatment and safeguarding of the assets of the Bank of Italy with reference to the presumed value of realization. In the original text, there was a more general wording: "in such a way as to ensure transparency and equal treatment." On this, however, we still allow ourselves to point out to the Government and, therefore, indirectly to the Bank of Italy, which has already considered correctly on 23 December last to approve its statutory amendment, the need to increase attention to the transitional period and its particular role on the so-called theoretical quota market, also in relation to the ECB's opinion which was published on the ECB's official website on 27 December last. It is a subject that we believe must be at the centre of the attention of the Bank of Italy, because transparency with respect to transfers is a fundamental element for us. In addition, in order to ensure, in this case too, the highest level of sharing and transparency, the obligation of an annual report to the Chambers on the progress of the operations of participation in the capital of Bankitalia has been added. Over the three years, then, Parliament will receive information once a year on this trend. I believe that there has been considerable work done in the Commission, with the contribution of everyone, showing that Parliament and the Commission can and can work. From this point of view, with a little pride, I think that we are giving this House important work, and I hope that the debate will further clarify and enrich their positions. I would like to conclude by thanking Mr Saccomanni for his helpfulness, attention and cooperation, which has allowed us to deliver today to the Assembly and to the country - I believe - a good job. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u8	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Scilipoti to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech on the question referred to the Senate Act No 1188 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 laying down urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the alienation of public buildings and the Bank of Italy, which I have prepared, is quite extensive. I therefore ask Mr President, in advance, to be able to attach to the report the text of my speech, because, as it is vast, I will certainly not be able to complete it. I shall just make a few comments aloud, including on the last speech I heard in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it to deposit the text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u11	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the utmost respect and I very much welcome the work of Mr Saccomanni, as I very much welcome the work done by the Commissions and the presentation made by the rapporteurs. However, I must say with great regret that in the last rapporteur's report, when it comes to 'no privatisation', what is said does not correspond to reality. The rapporteur knows, as most Members of this House know, that the privatisation of the Bank of Italy has existed since 1992, since, by decree Amato, it was indirectly privatised or, we can also add, directly the Bank of Italy. Let me remind my colleagues in this House that the participation of non-public credit institutions within the Bank of Italy is almost 95%: Intesa Group has 27.2 percent, São Paulo Group 17.23 percent, UniCredit 10 percent, Monte dei Paschi di Siena 2 percent, Florence savings bank over 1%. The State, therefore, in the Bank of Italy has a very small percentage, which is 5%. Why did this happen? Because the Amato Government in 1992, with the privatization of the country's jewels, privatised, as I said earlier, the Bank of Italy; and privatising the Bank of Italy has created unsustainable conditions for a country like Italy. The first privatisation was done by Amato in 1992. The second, which we can also call privatisation, but in reality is the transfer of the sovereignty that the Bank of Italy had to have and that it no longer has, is the accession to the eurozone, that is, the transition from the lira to the euro. I am here today to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1 which, in my opinion, should be accepted, because I do not understand what the IMU and the sale of public buildings have to do with the Bank of Italy. I repeat, I do not understand what the Bank of Italy has to do with the sale of public buildings and the urgent provisions concerning the IMU. We do not understand what the link between them is and, since I do not see it and I do not realize that there is a link between the two issues, I believe that they should be divided. One question is to talk about the IMU, another is to talk about the sale of public buildings, another is the regulation of the Bank of Italy, also because, within this decree there is a provision concerning the Bank of Italy of a legal nature, which covers all the capital of the Bank of Italy and its organs, and contains coordination provisions and other provisions. To do this, in my opinion we should be much more serene and we should tackle this issue much more calmly, so that we can make a contribution and ensure that the Banca d'Italia issue is examined with the utmost care to find the right solutions. Mr President, within these rules we are talking about the repeal of Article 115 of the Single Text of the Laws on issuing institutions, approved by Royal Decree No 204 of 28 April 1910. This royal decree provided for the possibility of issuing paper money by the Banco di Sicilia and Banco di Napoli. Why am I taking this thought, Mr President? Do I do this for a matter of southernism? No. Do I do it for reasons related to the Region of belonging from which I come? No. I make this reflection to make it clear that the Italians have given great confidence to the Bank of Italy and to those who represented it. And in a particular way the southerners gave it confidence, at the moment when, in 1910, through the aforementioned decree, the possibility was given, after the Unity of Italy, also to the Banco di Napoli and Banco Sicilia to issue paper money. Then, instead, with a subsequent decree, the possibility of issuing paper money by the Banco di Napoli and Banco di Sicilia is cancelled, giving the possibility only to the Bank of Italy to issue currency, which was to be the currency to guarantee all Italians. This means that money is something precious for a people. When a people loses its monetary sovereignty and no longer has the chance to beat money in its own right, it means that it is a slave and no longer has the opportunity to get out of the crises that could be, and could be, envisaged, as happened in the last period. Returning back, and reflecting on the content and effects of the Royal Decree of 28 April 1910, n. 204, we see that in 1926 relations between the Government and the Bank of Italy were created and therefore in June 1926 relations between the Government, Banco di Napoli and Banco di Sicilia changed. We deprive these two banks of the possibility of issuing paper money, with consequences that could then be disastrous and that today have been disastrous for the South. Having said that, what did that mean? It meant that the southern people trusted this Bank of Italy, which had to issue money to guarantee all Italians and to give well-being to Italians. For a certain period, this currency that was issued, owned by the State, was used for the Italian people: it was used, by the State, to help those who needed it and need it, that is, the children of the workers. The coin that was issued was also used to support the construction of large infrastructures. This period lasted from 1936 until 1992, when the privatisation of the Bank of Italy took place. Here I would like to echo what the rapporteur said earlier (no privatisation). Privatisation took place in 1992, giving way to state jewels; consequently, the Bank of Italy was privatised. The Bank of Italy was privatised 95%, while 5% remained in the hands of the State, remained in the hands of the people. What did it mean and what does it mean? What we're saying could mean almost nothing. It means something important. All that has been said and that I said until a few minutes ago, speaking of monetary sovereignty, turns into what? It is transformed into the difficulty of the country to face its own needs. Monetary sovereignty: the people, who had the right... I invite you to conclude, Senator Scilypoti. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you for a few more minutes, Mr President, to finish my reflection. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're entitled to ten minutes, Senator Scilipoti. He has already asked to attach the written text of his speech. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I'll try to finish in two minutes. What does it mean to privatise the Bank of Italy? It means the loss of monetary sovereignty. What does the loss of monetary sovereignty mean? The country beats currency: the paper money that is printed has a real cost and a commercial cost. The real cost is the typographical cost and the color; the commercial cost instead is the stamped cost on the banknote. The difference between the stamped cost (commercial cost) and the real cost of printing for a 500 euro banknote is 499 euro. In other words, the real cost of a 500 euro banknote is 1 euro, while its commercial cost, when used, is 500 euro. The 499 euros of difference, which were once used by the State to make the country strong and to create those infrastructures that we talked about a few minutes ago, have ended up in the pockets of credit institutions and banks since 1992. I shall conclude, Mr President: this is the last minute, and thank you. What does that mean? It means that EUR 499, which were once a State, are now banks, i.e. those who in recent years have behaved clumsy towards families and small and medium-sized enterprises. Some say this seigniorage isn't true and it's unreal. Instead, it is true and it is real, because this difference, which should be entered in the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy as assets, is entered as liabilities. Those EUR 499 are referred to as liabilities, and should instead be indicated as assets: they are indicated as outputs and instead they have entered. Then we - and I conclude, Mr President - should address a much more serious topic: not the definitive privatisation of the Bank of Italy, but the repurchase of the Bank of Italy, to give strength to Italy, to get out of the crisis, to give the possibility to small and medium-sized enterprises to be subsidised by the State and to give the citizens the opportunity to have something... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). ...that can get them out of the difficulties that these days and years are going through. Finally, Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council. You've already finished. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I should like to conclude, Mr President, by stressing that today we should be called upon to reflect strongly: to decide not to sell the Bank of Italy definitively, but to buy back the Bank of Italy from the Italians. In case this is not possible, you must abandon the Bank of Italy in the hands of private bankers and immediately create a new national credit institution, in the interest of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u12	Senator Scilipoti, you abused your faculty. He asked Senator Molinari to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, Senators, I shall remain on the subject of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which, in our view, relates to the blatant violation of the Constitution, yet another violation that is made by the issuing of a decree-law. Apparently, the promises made at Christmas didn't meet in January. As everyone knows, the decree in question contains provisions on the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU, tax payments, the valuation of public buildings which are the subject of disposal, capital and governance of the Bank of Italy, excise duties and coordination provisions. To us proposers, and to those who care about the spirit of our Constitution, it is clear that even in this umpteenth decree-law the presuppositions of necessity and urgency are completely absent that - according to Article 77 of the Constitution, second paragraph - must be "extraordinary." Of course, Minister, these are not the merely legal or multiannual provisions contained therein, while remaining silent about the manifest heterogeneity of the provisions, which can be found from the outset. Already during the debate on the amendment of Article 138, we recalled how sensitive are some legal safeguards contained in the Constitution for the overall maintenance of the system outlined in the Charter. One of these is - in fact - in Article 77, which reminds us that the necessity and urgency constitute the basis and practical function of the decree, in the proper balance of the functions of government and those entrusted to Parliament. The logical and literal order followed by Article 77 in the presentation of the presuppositions for the decree of urgency cannot be subjected to contingent political requirements or to self-qualifications of the Government protempore, if we do not want to consolidate the practice - alas, spread with the careless and not rigid control by the Guarantor of the Charter - of taking measures considered necessary and urgent for governmental purposes only. In so doing, the very meaning of the exceptional clause imposed by the Constitutional Charter is being distorted, making Parliament capitulate to the needs of the Government. It is not, in other words, the only necessity and urgency self-qualified by the Government that adopts the measure to define it in this urgent sense, but concrete extraordinaryness is the discriminating element for the use of the decree. In this sense, closely linked to the criteria of extraordinaryness, necessity and urgency, there is also the important issue of the homogeneity of the decree-law - which is unfortunately marginalized by the practice established in Parliament's classrooms - which should instead ensure full consistency. This consistency must be assessed in relation to the political appreciation, carried out by the Government, but under the control of Parliament, in relation, precisely, to the individual extraordinary case of necessity and urgency that the law of conversion must observe. To us, and I believe all admirers of the Republican Constitution (ahimè, become so few), it is clear that this decree-law intervenes to regulate a plurality of material areas that can hardly be considered entangled by that objective or functional connection required by the Constitutional Court, so that the content of an emergency measure can reasonably be considered as unitary. But there is more. The normative contents of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law no. 133 of 30 November 2013, in question conflict, as well as with the legal rules that govern the enactment of emergency measures, also with other constitutional norms. In particular, Minister, Articles 4 to 6 of the Decree-Law which contain provisions on the governance of the Bank of Italy. In Article 4, if it is reaffirmed that the Bank is an institution governed by public law, on the other hand, the composition of the Board of Governors which may intervene in the areas of the protection of savings, i.e. the exercise of the credit and currency function, donated to the Interministerial Committee for Credit and Savings (ICRC), also providing parameters for the related changes to the Statute of the Bank of Italy, in the meantime intervened. The conflict with the combined provisions of Articles 47, first paragraph, and 97, second paragraph, of the Constitution, placed to protect savings and the exercise of credit, therefore, seems to be peaceful. If in the formula of Article 47 (I remind those who have forgotten it) it is found, in fact, an implicit constitutionalization of the Bank of Italy (for this reason it is not a bank like all the others), its aims and its objectives would be undermined by the prescriptions of the bill in question. I would remind this House that savings constitute a primary constitutional value that the legal order has a duty to actively encourage and in all its many forms, including the stability of the banking system and its regulation, since the weakening of the right to savings - as we have seen in these periods of credit crunch - directly affects the instrumental function of the distribution of wealth, in accordance with the provisions of the so-called economic articles of our Constitution. But strong doubts of violation of constitutionally protected norms are also evident in Article 3 of the decree-law in question. The first paragraph states that the provisions dating back to 1985, which permit the sanatorium of building irregularities, also apply to the disposal of public buildings, including territorial authorities, through the securitisation system, that is, the creation of money from nothingness, while the second paragraph of the same article introduces an amendment to the current legislation aimed at allowing the sale by private negotiation and by block, not only of real estate for non-housing use belonging to the public heritage, but also of those for non-housing use, provided that such use is not prevalent. The right of sanatorium conferred by that Article clearly allows an undue and unreasonable economic advantage to the purchaser of public buildings compared to other purchasers of real estate. The risk is also that the provision under consideration, consisting in a reopening of the terms of the pardon for the subjects cited by the decree-law, leads to the alienation of property confiscated from organized crime and already acquired to the public real estate, with the possibility that - in the absence of barriers and clauses - they return to the sphere of the subjects to which they have been taken. I think we have tried to avoid this by tabling appropriate amendments. There is therefore a substantial difference in treatment between homogeneous cases, where the rule presents an intrinsic inconsistency, contradiction or illogicality with respect to the pre-existing regulatory environment. The scrutiny of reasonableness, as a general limit of the legislation, requires instead to carry out a positive constitutional balance anchored to the principle of equality and, therefore, to Article 3, which comes, from the article of the decree-law in question, clearly violated. We believe that different and obvious are the violations of our Constitution contained in the decree-law under consideration. In the light of the considerations I have put forward in our opinion by the signatories to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, it is clear that Articles 3, 47, 77 and 97 of the Constitution have been infringed. We therefore ask that the House, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, decide not to proceed with the examination of Act No 1188.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u14	He asked Senator Uras to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is now well known how systematically the use of decree-laws by the Government is abused, an abuse that leads to a weakening of the legislative function assigned to Parliament, in a very aggressive context compared to this function in relation to the legislative processes developed by subnationals and international entities. In this case, as in many other cases, we are faced with the definition of a measure which contains in itself several elements of unconstitutionality compared to Article 77 of the Constitution. In fact, in the rules contained in the articles that wish to give certainty to the regulatory framework concerning the capital of the Bank of Italy, although necessary for participation in the single supervisory mechanism, we do not see those characteristics of necessity and urgency explicitly recalled by the second paragraph of the aforementioned Article 77 of the Constitution, while it emerges, from the urgency to address these issues related to the recapitalisation of the Bank of Italy, the coverage of a misleading and artificial operation in favour of a part of the Italian banking system in view of important European deadlines, completely distant and extraneous to the need to redefine the governance of the Institute. The decree-law under consideration, therefore, observed in accordance with the considerable jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, turns out not to meet the constitutional requirements, presenting obvious non-homogeneous contents that foreshadow an equally obvious violation of the constraint, implicitly contained in the spirit of Article 77 of the Constitution, and explicitly expressed in Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988. This blatant violation is also confirmed by the Government's own statements in the Commission. In fact, the Government itself stated in the Commission that the necessity and urgency of the decree would be linked to the necessary coordination with the law of stability then under discussion. It should be noted that the measures in question exhaust their financial effects in the financial year 2013 and therefore do not interfere with the provisions of the same Stability Act. More than by urgency, therefore, the measure relating to the Bank of Italy seems to be dictated by the haste to reform the ownership structure and governance of the Institute. The current structure has not so far led to problems related to the independence of the Bank of Italy and to the freedom of choice with respect to the conditioning of the current holders of the quotas, as can be seen from the thorough and comprehensive report of Governor Visco in the Commission. This reform, which has for more ordinamental characters objectively incompatible with the characteristics of necessity and urgency of the decree-law, such as those that preceded it in the long history of the Institute, should pass to the examination of an in-depth political debate, which addresses expansively and analytically all related aspects, subtracting this argument from the simplifications inherent in the decree of urgency. Parliament could therefore be allowed to deal with these important issues in time for a more careful assessment of all the issues related to it, since this is a rule of law, as the explanatory report itself supports. An exception could therefore be proposed by providing, for the rules relating to the Bank of Italy, the procedure provided for in Article 72 of the Constitution. We note in fact that, without being preceded by the slightest political debate, it has proceeded by decree to a historical reform of the ownership and governance of the Bank of Italy that clearly prejudices the protection of the savings sanctioned by Article 47 of the Constitution that reads: The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. But nothing has been said about this by the Government, which is concerned to discuss the fact that anyone can buy a piece of the Bank of Italy. Article 53 of the Constitution states: "Everyone is required to contribute" - this is the second argument that we raise about the constitutionality of the measure - "to public expenditure due to their capacity to contribute." To the unevenness of the arguments dealt with by the decree-law is added also the manifest violation of article 53, second paragraph, of the Constitution, in the matter of second installment of the IMU. The rigidity inherent in the definition of the levy in fact removes the capital value from the contribution capacity of the individual owner, providing for a single and non-progressive rate, and in fact establishes a disparity between citizens. This decree-law, suspending the tax on all taxpayers who own the first house, effectively endorses this inequality, in violation of Article 3 and the second paragraph of Article 53 of the Constitution. The progressivity ensured in a structural way by the linking of the IMU to cadastral incomes, as stated also by authoritative representatives of the majority, does not exist, as the revision of urban cadastral is far from complete. Finally, the rules concerning the alienation of the public heritage, with the reopening of the terms for the sanatoria building for those buildings that are characterized by irregularities (faculty also extended to the territorial authorities), involve a serious damage to the environment and to the protection of the territory, in clear violation of Article 9 of the Constitution. The possibility of reopening the terms of the building allowance only for the sale of public buildings also undermines the principle of equality and reasonableness enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. Therefore, the request that we make, pursuant to Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, is not to proceed to the examination of the bill of conversion containing urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the alienation of public property and the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-GAPp Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u16	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u19	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. We believe that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling are unfounded and - therefore - we confirm that we are voting against them. The fact that they are not justified is also reflected in the reasons for their support. The Commission has argued for a long time, and the Government's decree has also been examined in its presuppositions: the questions of constitutionality therefore have no reason to exist. We therefore reiterate our vote against and believe that the House should reject the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u22	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia is a moderate and coherent party. With conviction, last April, we voted in favour of the re-election of the President of the Republic of Naples, whom we already knew. We supported the Government with conviction and consistency. We took away the confidence of the government when we felt that the action was not appropriate to the needs of the country. Therefore, with regard to President Napolitano, to the structure of the Quirinale, to the President of the Council and to the members of the Government we have respect, but nobody is infallible, and frankly the decree under consideration is proof of this. This decree contradicts the letter sent by President Napolitano to the Houses near Christmas, of which you, President Grasso, read in this House on 28 December. In that letter, President Napolitano asked Parliament to ensure that the amendments tabled do not betray the homogeneity of the subject matter of the decree-laws. But in this case the homogeneity of matter is missing in the same decree that we are examining, in which three matters are merged that do not have to do with each other: the IMU, whose repeal is indeed urgent; the revision of certain criteria for the sale of property and property land and, finally, the Bank of Italy. Then there is a political problem, which concerns the future structure of our country, of which the Bank of Italy is a very important part. The Bank of Italy has played a fundamental role throughout its history. In the post-war period the action of the Menichella and Carli governors was fundamental for the great development of our country. In the seventies Governor Baffi and Director General Sarcinelli appointed Ambrosoli as the commissioner of the Italian private bank to prevent Sindona from putting his hand in the banking system of our country. This decision involved the sacrifice of the life of Ambrosoli, the prison for the director general Sarcinelli and the withdrawal of the passport in Maffi. Mustache held on, overcame the problem, and then resigned. Ciampi has arrived in his place, whose merits in our country no one knows better than we do here in the Senate. Then there was the work of Fazio, of Draghi, of Visco, recognized at national and international level. An important story, therefore, that cannot be dispersed. Forza Italia agrees to increase the capital of the Bank of Italy, which is certainly inadequate, although, as regards the measure of this increase, the European Central Bank itself, in its opinion of 27 December last (in Chapter 3, point 4), raises some doubts about the criteria adopted. On this subject, on the legal issue, we must work in depth and quickly to guarantee the Bank of Italy autonomy, quality of the summits, adaptation and clarity of the rules of governance, so that the Bank of Italy continues to act in the interest of the country. It is important to bear in mind that the evolution of finance at planetary level makes sure that those who hold the shares of the Bank of Italy could themselves become extra-European within a short time. To name names, I refer, for example, to Banca Intesa, UniCredit, Montepaschi, which could become the property of Chinese, Indians, Japanese, Americans and so on. Then maybe it's worth meditating. It has been said that the rule proposed by the rapporteurs as an amendment, which provides that the holders of 3% can only be Italian subjects, is most likely contrary to European legislation and risks causing other sanctions to our country. It's true we have so many, but attracting one more doesn't seem genius! Senators, in England, France, Germany, democratic and liberal countries, the Central Bank is public. This decree states that in the name of the sacrosanct autonomy the Bank of Italy is totally self-referential. This is its philosophy. I acknowledge the President Marino, the rapporteurs Fornaro and Olivero and the representatives of the Government in the Commission - Minister Saccomanni and the Undersecretary Baretta - that they have tried to work, but frankly the solutions found raise many concerns and concerns. That is why it would be essential that Articles 4, 5 and 6 of this decree should not be dealt with and that in a thorough and rapid way it should be established which is the right capital for the Bank of Italy, and above all - because this is the important aspect - that the rules of governance be transparent and clear and guarantee not only the autonomy of the bank but also that it acts today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the interest of the country, as it has always acted in an extraordinarily positive history. For these reasons, Forza Italia is firmly in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from Senators Amoruso and Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u25	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I take advantage of the Minister's presence to give some thought to this matter. I must say that we are faced with a complex and difficult decree-law, which, above all, from the point of view of merit - which is not at this moment in question - is certainly worthy of further consideration, but the discussion of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling is something else. Some reflections, especially the last one, to which I refer, the one that would like to see the rules relating to the Bank of Italy removed, contradict the moment we are living, namely the debate on the questions referred to us, because if we voted in favour of these issues - which the PD Group will not do, because it will vote against - the whole measure would fall from the IMU, and I believe that no one, not even Mr Carraro, wants this. The subject is sensitive and sensitive and this House has dealt very often with the question of the constitutionality of the decree-laws, even in a controversial way on some occasions. I recall the discussion that took place during the examination of the decree-law on violence against women, where heterogeneity was such that some of us, especially women, experienced it as an offense because we were talking about violence against women and anything else, like the Provinces. In this case, meanwhile, we note that this is a decree-law whose presuppositions of necessity and urgency have never been called into question by the 1st Commission, of which I am a parent of the PD, a decree-law whose subject matter concerns the Dicastery entrusted to Minister Saccomeni. From this point of view, without going into the substance of the individual rules, the real point of the discussion is to understand what the homogeneity of a decree is, because on this too it should be understood. In the intercourse with the Government, in cases such as the one under consideration (in which we are faced with a decree that evokes different topics in the title and above all divides the arguments into three titles, which means that the Government itself proposes an articulated discussion, because one thing is the IMU and the alienation of the real estate and one thing is the legislation that concerns the Bank of Italy) there is no doubt that Parliament, as it has expressed itself so far, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as it understood the concept of homogeneity, would prefer more parallel measures, and not a single measure, as it has been done with the unpacking of the so-called thousandprorogates. Moreover, this measure is dated 30 November, and I do not know whether it would have been presented in a unified manner today. However, I would like to offer a few words on the concept of homogeneity to Mr Saccomeni's reflections because they evoke the political confrontation that has been invoked on several sides. Of course, to say that we need the homogeneity today that we are on the eve of the debate on milleproroghe requires a deepening. This measure, in fact, contains, for tabulas in a clear way, absolutely heterogeneous arguments and subjects: the homogeneity is given only by the fact that there is an extension to be given and, therefore, a deadline. Therefore, from this point of view, I would not stand firm and rigid on the issue of the homogeneity of matters, but I would like to invite the Government in such circumstances and, above all, at the stage of the report, to make explicit the political project which, otherwise, is entrusted to the hearings and political confrontation that takes place only in this House, while it should be made explicit from the outset. In fact, by making the political confrontation explicit, it would be easier to check, which the Government did first, but which Parliament must do, in order to arrive at the political appreciation of homogeneity, invoked a moment ago also by my colleague Molinari, who calls for the deepening of unity and the guiding thread between the various topics. This measure, I repeat, is dated 30 November and has been defended by us with an opinion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that unitedly, without single positions or groups, has repeatedly denounced the phenomena that are now in a striking way in the eyes of all and, above all, the phenomenon of inequality, which is posthumous because due to interventions by the same Parliament, perhaps induced by the Government in the debate in the Chamber on the various measures. We are therefore to defend the characteristics which the decree-law entrusts to Article 77 of the Constitution and Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988. I therefore call on you, in defending this measure and in declaring your vote against the prejudices, to avoid in future, if not apparently or really uneven measures, a confrontation that is not linear from a political point of view. In fact, politics requires responsibility, as the law itself and the Constitution say; the government has assumed the political responsibility that is entrusted to it by the current legislation. We too want to assume the same political responsibility, but not only trustfully; we already do so with a bond of confidence which we want to reiterate this morning, but of course we would be greatly helped by an explanation not only in the Commission but also in this House, starting with the accompanying report, of what is the guiding principle of the measures themselves. We therefore vote against the prejudices, but we think that the moment that the country is living and the need for quality and correctness in the legislation require an extra effort that the Government, we are convinced, will not fail to do. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Olivero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u26	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senators Scilipoti and Aracri (QP1), Senator Molinari and other Senators (QP2) and Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP3). (In the course of the vote, some senators asked for a counter-test. The President pointed out that the vote was still taking place). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u29	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, is it possible to proceed with the counterproof? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I had the comfort of the Secretary Senators about the outcome of the vote, which I think is obvious. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure provides, however, that a counter-test may be requested and proceed accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u30	When this is necessary. In the meantime I have seen some people enter the Chamber, so the counterproof would no longer make sense when the presence of senators in the Chamber was altered. I'm sorry. However, the visibility of the outcome of the vote was absolutely clear. (Senator Scilipoti asks to intervene.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u33	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry, but in accordance with Rule 114 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, in the immediacy of the vote we asked for counter proof when the doors were still open. I have seen a number of Members who mistakenly raised their hands both in favour and in the opposite direction to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. It would therefore have been more appropriate to take counterproof than to extend the time frame. I ask it as a gesture of courtesy and for clarity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u34	I don't know how you figured out that your hand had been raised wrong. I can't understand that. However, I understand the problem, but there has been a clear view of the outcome of the vote. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Senator Santangelo, the request for counterproof is not admissible. It would have been necessary to request it in good time. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] . Senator Scilipoti again asks to intervene).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u37	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I take note of the fact that you are integrating the Senate Rules with neologism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] I believe that the proposals are accepted and rejected by a number of votes. If, instead, neologisms are coined like the one you used, the visuality is, next time we will have to call Bernacca, the one who made the weather forecast on television.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u38	All right, Senator, we'll call him if we have to.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u41	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am sorry, I do not wish to be petulant, but I have been asking you to speak for about six minutes, even before you addressed the Senator Secretary for confirmation of the outcome of the vote. Mr President, ask those who are on your right and on your left and will check that I was asking to speak in this House six minutes ago. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Don't take any notice of anything and let me finish talking. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u42	She talks as long as I let her. Try to use respectful tones.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u43	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). I don't want to offend you or this House... President. Neither do I. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). But I would ask you, Mr President, to take the counter-test because I have been asking for it for about six minutes and at a regular time for such a request to be made and accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u44	Senator Scilipoti, you may realize that it is no longer possible to proceed against trial because there are senators who enter and leave the hemicycle. The request was to be timely, but this timeliness was not there. We should proceed to a video rehearsal. [[Laughter]] Senator Scilipoti, the request for a counter-test was not accepted, the question for a preliminary ruling was rejected; let us proceed with the proceedings. Next time it will be more timely and it will also be given visibility by the whole Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u47	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, at this rejection fair we also reject the objection that you made that you did not speak in a timely manner. I would remind you that you yourself pointed out to me that I was making the request for counterproof when your statement of the outcome of the vote was still to be concluded. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] We therefore reject this objection and ask you to take responsibility for saying that you did not want to do the counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u48	Thank you, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another decree which responds to the umpteenth needs and urgency, such as those which we have seen for the first time since 1936. It goes without saying that this measure also finds its financial cover in increases in IRES and IRAP payments and additional IRES and that, even if the sector directly involved is the credit and financial sector, the now notorious safeguard clauses again affect consumption and business. As for banks, we will later see how their providential sacrifice is largely rewarded in this same provision. I will also leave out the provisions on public buildings that facilitate the planned sale or sale of public real estate; I would ask you, the correct term is "value-added." Who knows that tomorrow someone does not come into mind to enhance also the Colosseum, which also presents some small urban-building irregularities. However, I want to focus on Title II of the decree under consideration, which concerns the recapitalisation of the Bank of Italy. Until now we have always challenged the Government, because in fact it expels the Parliament of its legislative power, but this is the first time that we are faced with a measure that seems to be written with four hands with the Italian Banking Association and perhaps with the Bank of Italy itself. So let's see what this is about: the Bank of Italy, using its reserves, will bring its capital from the current and now symbolic 156,000 euros to 7.5 billion euros. As a result, the private members (we remember the main ones: Banca Intesa and Unicredit), will see the shares in their possession re-evaluated to 25,000 euro each. [[Brusio]] I would like to ask my colleagues whether it is possible to continue my speech with a little silence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 10:57 a.m. (Follow VACCIANO). Perhaps it is useful to remind (to those who listen or to those who do not speak too much) that the billions of capital increase, that the bankers will find themselves as if by magic in their budgets, derive from a fund of reserves increased over time thanks to the fact that the State, and therefore the Italian citizens, have granted over the years to the Bank of Italy the privilege to carry out in monopoly that complex of activities without which the national institute of Palazzo Koch could never have recorded direct or indirect profits and let alone create statutory reserves. The calculation method used to determine the new value of the shares Bankitalia (the so-called dividend discount model), based on the current value of future dividends, is simply inapplicable to the central bank. The private partners, who acquired the shares of the issuing institution when they were of a public nature and kept it because of a sudden (or perhaps for someone at this point it would be better to say providential) distraction of the Amato law, cannot boast any rights on profits, such as those of the Bank of Italy, produced directly or indirectly exploiting a public good. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u50	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower your voice, because your colleague is unable to make his speech. Anyone who has to speak should do so, please, outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u51	Thank you, President. What is also recognised today by the participants in the capital can be consistently considered as compensation, linked to the fact that the latter, in a remote time, paid a price to buy quotas. In view of these considerations, Mr Rossi, who pointed out in the Commission that nothing is new in the new ownership structure compared to the current situation, I repeat that the real anomaly is precisely the current situation; anomaly that we are healing it institutionally. It must be said that, in view of these capital increases, the State, which now has as its imperative to cash in any way possible, will collect a tax on capital gains, which at the time when the technical report was formulated was not quantifiable, but which we learned - work in progress - from the law of stability which will be commensurate with 12% of the increase in value. In any case, banks will be happy to pay, even in view of the deal on the horizon. Also in this measure it is expected, in fact, that every member can not hold shares that represent more than 5% - then we will find that in reality it is 3% - of the capital of Bankitalia: the majority members (always UniCredit and Banca Intesa, as well as Generali and Carisbo), will have to get rid of the shares exceeding this threshold putting them on the market. But, we know, the moment is difficult, the market for this type of quota is still to be built and, then, the Government has generously foreseen a shortcut: the Bank of Italy temporarily (and this term in Italy usually means "tend to infinity") will be able to buy back its shares from the members who possess it in excess. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The names seem to me to have made them quite often, but perhaps it is better to repeat them: Banca Intesa and Unicredit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, I am sorry that the term is not technical, but I do not know how to define it differently as a gift, to which is added a simple consideration: according to the new provisions - to which I recognize the only merit of putting an end to the claims on the reserves of the Bank by private partners - the dividend will be paid to the members themselves within the limit of 6% of the new capital: we speak of about 450 million euros per year, considering that in the current structure the 50-70 million euros have never been exceeded. This will further mitigate, where necessary, the discomfort caused by the one-off IRES rate increases for the current year. But do you know who will feel less useful in the coming years? Of course you know, you have also written it in the forecast budget: the State! Looking to the future, an amendment has been inserted to protect the Italianness of our national bank, without having provided for any safeguard clause, which we also proposed; therefore Bankitalia may be in the hands of subjects that are Italian today, but that in the long term (not even so long) could also be climbed by new extra European members, such as any Goldman Sachs. What happens then? How will this most probable future situation be managed? Today the shareholders are Italian and the Bank of Italy is their supervisory authority: what would happen if the share ownership became mainly French, German, Japanese or ended up in the hands of any other country with potentially conflicting interests with ours and with the supervision moved to Frankfurt? We know that the majority of our colleagues and the Government are aware of this risk, but they did not accept our amendment in the Commission, nor did they propose their own solution, which we would also have considered: further proof, if necessary, of how it was forced and not adequately supported by a serene analysis of the facts of this measure. And again, if there is a company in Italy that can and, in our opinion, must be in public hands or at least predict the participation of public entities this is the Bank of Italy, the activities of regulation, supervision, monetary policy and so on require total independence of the central bank with respect to the regulated entities. Public share ownership is perhaps not a necessary and sufficient condition for this to happen, but it is certainly better than a private share ownership, where shareholders are, among other things, controlled entities. If it is true that we cannot talk about conflict of interests in the strict sense, because, as we know, private parties cannot influence the external actions of the Bank of Italy (vigilance, monetary policy), we can certainly talk about inopportunity. It was precisely in the attempt to heal this inopportunity that the unapplied law n. 262 of 2005, to paragraph 10 of Article 19, exactly what is being canceled with the present provision (and I address in particular to the few remaining colleagues of the center-right, since it was a measure of their Government), provided for the progressive return of the shares of Bankitalìa in the hands of State and public bodies. You could fight back, for example... president. You should finish, Senator. VACCIANO (M5S). I've been interrupted twice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The lost time has already been recovered. VACCIANO (M5S). However, we must ask ourselves whether we are an isolated case. No, and the examples are made by the Bank of Italy itself, citing the Federal reserve, which, however, has a proprietary structure which, if compared to the Maastricht regulations, would be unthinkable in Europe. Let us return to Europe. Whose property is the Banque de France? Of the Bundesbank, of the Germany we like so much, and on the model of which the ECB was created? It's public. If the need is that highlighted in the report on the updating of the value of capital shares, i.e. to preserve the autonomy of the bank from political interference, then I wonder what is the usefulness of paragraph 1 of Article 5, where it is clearly stated that the assembly of participants and the Board of Directors of the Bank of Italy do not interfere in matters relating to the exercise of functions conferred by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. If this rule applies to private individuals, why should it not apply to public partners? Or is the government admitting that it trusts much more bankers than the political class that supports it and that it could even act in violation of the Maastricht Treaty, in the silence of the Bank of Italy itself and contrary to its own statute, Article 1? In short, ladies and gentlemen, if there is an urgency in this decree, it is once again to do a favor to our beloved banks, which are doing so much for the Italian production system. Then I tell you, dear friends banks, if you want to solve your capital problems, feel free to do so with the money of your partners and you, Ministers, I understand that you still feel the Christmas spirit, but if you want to make gifts of this type, do it with your money and not with those of the Bank of Italy and therefore of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u52	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are here discussing a legal instrument which contains the most varied subjects. From the discipline of the IMU, to the introduction of the additional IRES for the credit, financial and insurance sector to arrive at the reforms of the Bank of Italy, passing through the sale of the properties of public assets. The choices of the present Government on this matter and their future relapse deserve a separate discussion. Mr Saccomanni himself stated that there was no direct link between the transaction covering the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU and the revaluation of the value of the shares of the Bank of Italy. We do not understand, therefore, why to insert them in the same decree: the only common thread, without a shadow of doubt, seems to be the trouble of the Government to find economic resources. Although the issue related to the IMU is more of a public interest, as it directly affects the pockets of the Italians, I would like to focus the attention of the senators on the reform of the Statute of the Bank of Italy contained in Articles 4, 5 and 6 of Decree-Law 133 presented by the Government. To us this type of political action seems incorrect, in method and in substance. Starting with the method used to approve the reform, we see that once again it has been done by decree and without a minimum of political debate. The Government, on the proposal of the Minister of Economy and Finance, has decided a historical reform of the ownership and governance of the Bank of Italy. The revaluation of the shares of the Bank of Italy is going to pass in general silence or, better, covered by the noise of real estate taxation and by the most varied tax acronyms, of which we are debating in recent months. However, there are two highly questionable issues contained in Title II of the Decree. The first is that with the entry of new members into the capital of Banca d'Italia there is a risk that the country's most important and prestigious economic institution will end up in foreign hands. The second is the gift that is given to our own banks. As people argue endlessly about how to tax the first house, few are concerned about the fact that, once the reform has passed, anyone will be able to buy a piece at the Bank of Italy. Minister Saccomanni, talking about the measure and the revaluation of the shares, explained that the Bank of Italy will become a public company of which no one will have control. In the intentions of the Government, the Bank of Italy is authorized to increase its capital through the use of statutory resources up to 7.5 billion euros. The Bank may distribute annual dividends for an amount not exceeding 6% of the capital. Each participant in the capital will not be entitled to own a capital share of more than 3% directly or indirectly, instead of the 5% provided for in the previous text. In order to facilitate compliance with this limit, the Bank of Italy will be able to purchase temporarily the participation shares held by other entities. Participation shares in our central bank will therefore become freely transferable, i.e. exchangeable on the market. The fact that they are reserved for European financial intermediaries is not a big guarantee, since these entities can in turn be controlled by other entities, including non-European entities. Article 4 of the decree-law provides in fact the extension of the subjects authorized to hold quotas. Such entities may be not only banks, but also foundations, insurance companies, institutions and pension institutions, including European pension funds. By establishing the upper limit of 5% of the capital that each participant can hold, the Bank of Italy de facto becomes a widespread shareholder company. This maximum limit does not, however, prevent the creation of alliances between shareholders capable of controlling the majority of the institution; shareholders who - it is well to remember - are the same entities that the central bank in its functions is called to supervise. Finally, with these changes, it would not even be possible to ban in a clear and absolute way that non-European entities can enter directly into the capital of Bankitalia, through participations in European banking institutions. It would be the first case in the world of a central bank held by a majority of different nationalities and where non-national entities benefit from the income achieved by the Bank of Italy in the activities of securities trading and reserve management. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). We believe that the real reason for this operation is purely fiscal and accounting, an exchange between a state in search of money and banks in search of credibility. Professor Marcello Esposito described the revaluation of the Bank of Italy as a clever operation. I have the impression that this reform will once again have a limited short-term advantage and a painful long-term loss. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Gambaro.]] Madam President, I would ask for permission to add to the report an addition to my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u54	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u55	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree under discussion deals with three very important issues, thus confirming the practice of the Commission to propose measures that combine strong and uneven themes. A ratio that represents the will to create confusion and to throw smoke in the eyes, but leaving also in inheritance to the future a body normative schizophrenic and incoherent and in this way nourishing, instead of resolving, the normative uncertainty, that is one of the great evils of this country and that only makes happy lawyers good buggers and bureaucrats of profession. We have witnessed, with Decree 102, the coupling between first installment IMU and social shock absorbers; we have passed, with the decree "manovrina" to the local immigration-finance duet. The other omnibus decree just dealt with was the one for Roma Capitale, then withdrawn because full of ignoble brands, even to the dealers of the game your friends. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Vacciano.]] The measure in question, on the other hand, refers to three distinct issues: the elimination of the second IMU instalment, the disposal of public buildings and the reform of the Bank of Italy. I start from the end, from the Bank of Italy, a question not at all simple. Here we ask ourselves: where are the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, which are the basis of the recourse to the decree-law? Yet new and significant provisions are introduced on the discipline of the capital of the bank, the participation in it, the distribution of profits, as well as the representative bodies of the participating parties. The most important novelty was the opening of the Bank of Italy to an extensive audience of investors, including foreign investors (members of the European Union). You, Mr Saccomanni, said that the extension to other intermediaries operating in Europe is consistent with the increased marketability of quotas in a context of free movement of capital. It was confirmation that the government wanted to sell off the national sovereignty of the credit institution. Article 3 allows the disposal of public buildings which, due to the presence of urban and building discrepancies, cannot be transferred to property. This rule agrees with us quite well, but as the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group we ask to exclude from sanability all works made on areas subject to constraint or in contrast to the constraints imposed by national and regional laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With our amending proposal we want to reaffirm our position of protection of the territory and the heritage and therefore avoid becoming accomplices to the approval of rules that can conceal the sanatories of abusive property, carried out perhaps by public administrations of certain territorial situations where the lawlessness widespread is on the agenda. Our doubt has been reinforced after a building pardon was proposed in the 6th Permanent Commission: this was an attempt to legitimise once again the lawlessness in the urban area. I remember that abuse is one of the main causes of hydrogeological failure and a serious state cannot allow it and then legalize it. Only thanks to the protest action that saw the North League in the front row the amendment was withdrawn, but the majority - we denounce it - tried to sell the units for residential and commercial abuse to the same owners who without permission built them on areas belonging to the heritage of the State. This is doubly serious, because the abuse built on public areas is condoned. Let's go to the IMU. The abolition of the second instalment was to be the Christmas gift to all Italian owners of first residence. This gift could cause the spectre of TASI to be forgotten a bit, which will soon and will soon fall on families and businesses and affect the organization of the municipalities. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, do you know that the municipal tax offices are going crazy because they do not know the tax base for the buildings with which they have to calculate TASI? Mr Saccomanni, do you know that the mayors and staff of those offices, because of you, are increasingly being insulted by citizens, because they do not understand and no longer tolerate the schizophrenia represented by acronyms that continue to change (IMU, TARES, TARI, TASI, TRISE and now IUC)? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They are all vexatory taxes, donated as locals, which have impoverished families and brought to their knees businesses, created by the Monti Government, but raised under fake names by this Government with a dual purpose: firstly, to fatten the greedy coffers of the central state; secondly, to give responsibility for the tightening of the tax burden to local authorities and therefore to fiscal federalism. This is a real deception that the North League denounces! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] All this happens by forcing the poor mayors - not all of them, for the truth - to act as collectors on behalf of Rome, as I was the first citizen to denounce in 2012, on the occasion of the municipal council called to decide for the first time the IMU rates. With the majority advisors we wore this shirt that affirms the sacred truth: "IMU" is forced to act as collectors on behalf of Rome. [[Senator Arrigoni shows a t-shirt with the words: "IMU forced to make the collectors on behalf of Rome"]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u57	Senator Arrigoni, I would ask you to avoid the display of the shirt, because it is not provided for in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u58	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I won't wear it, Madam President. Anyway, I'll take it off. Among the many angry mayors, some smart but took advantage of the situation. Among these there is the first citizen of Florence (apparently, the most absentee in Italy), who the IMU has exploited it, indeed! Do you know why? In 2012 he went crazy in all TVs, saying that he was the only mayor of Italy to have lowered taxes: great lie, because, on the one hand, he decreased the additional IRPEF by one point compared to 2011 reducing the levy of 6 million euros to the Florentines (only 6 million euros), on the other - quiet, quiet - he set the maximum rate on the IMU of second houses and, even more serious, sheds, workshops and shops, that is on economic activities, thus withdrawing, compared to the year before, a ninety million more! Dear members of the government and of majority, from the patronage of the tax on real estate, of which for months you, Minister Saccomanni, had promised a reform but which was then imposed with the IUC a few hours before the vote of the question of trust placed on the law of stability, you did not want to learn. You have mixed up a bunch of mess and created certainties about the time of payment that should make any of you, major colleagues, blush with shame, have a minimum of common sense. The law of stability was not sufficient for deductions relating to TASI. The anticipations on the changes are not certain, nor reassuring; rather we learn that they will not be made to the provision because last night, you of the majority, did not find the square; a majority that reigns more and more in chaos. But we are sure that you will make up for your inability to allow the mayors to increase the rate from 2.5 to 3 and, perhaps, to 3.5 per thousand; this means - let's be clear - more taxes and, for many families, pay more than the IMU. As for the abolition of the IMU on the second house, on the other hand, there will be complete compensation for those 2,500 municipalities that have set a rate higher than the standard, even in 2012, as the Government had assured, with the complicity of the ANCI that, once again (sorry to say so), showed more attention to the big cities, than to the small municipalities. Therefore, the 2.1 billion euros allocated in the decree-law under consideration will not be enough to fully offset the increases decided by the municipalities and there will be yet another scam, whose main victims will be the citizens who will have to pay the mini-IMU on 24 January. But wasn't the word IMU supposed to disappear from the vocabulary, as was said by Deputy Minister Alfano? Victims will be those 2,500 municipalities that have believed in the Government, but that from now on live in uncertainty and concern, however well-founded, because not the League says so but your technical relationship that the amount of resources allocated will not cover 60% of the mini-IMU. 11:22 a.m. (Follows ARRIGONI). The consequence will be a hole in the budget for these municipalities. Many of the municipalities were also victims, who, in extreme budgetary difficulty because of the heavy cuts made, rather than increasing the IMU on the first house, to protect families, reduced services. Today they discover that they receive less from the solidarity fund than they had anticipated. I begin to conclude with a final reflection on another aspect that concerns the decree-law: the provision that triggers the safeguard clause provided for in Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, which eliminated the first instalment of the IMU. This is the icing on the poisoned cake by the government, which confirms its superficiality and inability. What the League had denounced was punctually verified: less VAT revenue and less collection on the penalties, which were widely discounted, that the gaming dealers would have to pay. There is no call for EUR 645 million to be recovered; and how will they be covered? Well, for tax periods 2013-2014 the increase from 101 to 102.5 percent of payments for the purposes of IRES and IRAP, a further blow for economic activities, and then, since January 2015, the increase of excise duties on petrol is expected. The government thought of giving a Christmas present to the Italians. The reality is that with the mini-IMU, tax advances, excise duties and TASI you have found black coal strongly indigested to the befana and for 2014, unlike what Letta and also several times from you, Minister Saccomanni, the music does not change: more taxes for everyone on real estate, that in 2014 will rise to 30 billion euros. I remember it: three times more than the 10 recovered with ICI in 2011. The government is a total failure and has lost credibility in the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to return to the debate on the question of the question of the privatisation of the Bank of Italy and the question of monetary sovereignty. My fellow Members do not want me to do so if I focus mainly on these two issues. Italy conquered monetary sovereignty in 1936, with the establishment of the Bank of Italy as a body governed by public law. He confirmed it, and indeed strengthened it, with the advent of the Republic and the promulgation of the Constitution in 1947. He began to lose it in 1981, with a letter from the Treasury Minister Andreatta to the Governor of the Bank of Italy Carli. He almost lost it definitively with the privatization of family jewels and the Bank of Italy on the night of 31 July 1992, the Amato government (and some of my colleagues who, intervening a while ago, made a reflection, saying that the issue is purely political). As I said, therefore, the first privatisation takes place on 31 July 1992, and the President of the Council bears the surname Amato. With the accession to the euro system in 1998 and the Treaty of Lisbon in 2007, the expropriation process of the Bank of Italy was completed. The character who drives this expropriation bears the name Prodi. First delegitimation: Amato; second delegitimation of the Bank of Italy: Prodi. Today, monetary sovereignty belongs to the competent European authority, the European Central Bank, and with it the yield from monetary issuance, resulting from the difference between the printing cost of the banknote and the nominal value, which becomes real when placed on the market. This, i.e. the yield from monetary issuance attributed to it, would be an important issue to be discussed in Parliament. In this way, the Italian people and the peoples of Europe, who are experiencing the most terrible economic crisis in their history, have been deprived of a resource that is certainly not decisive and exhaustive, but that would have been useful in overcoming the debt crisis that grabs them and wounds them daily. In the future, monetary sovereignty, today's monetary income, must be returned to the peoples of Europe and, as far as this Parliament is concerned, to the Italian State. This increasingly urgent measure does not automatically correspond to the exit from the euro, nor does it have particular political colors and hues: in past and present history moderate and liberal personalities, such as the American President Jefferson and the Canadian Liberal Prime Minister Mackenzie, and countries such as Japan and Canada have agreed and agree on the need for the State to hold control and annuity from monetary issuance. It is therefore necessary simply to entrust to the Italian State the profits derived from the printing, minting of the share of notes and coins attributed by the ECB to our country. In this way the yield from monetary issue and the proceeds from allocation of the currency issued will return to the Italian State, as in the period 1936-1992. In order to achieve this aim, therefore, the European Treaties need to be remodelled and the Bank of Italy should be made public again, giving back the currency to the Italian people. This would lead to blocking debt growth; to reducing taxes; to offering fair credit access to businesses and citizens in difficulty; to promoting employment, the development of the country's real economy and a citizenship income for all Italians. This is the subject that should be dealt with in Parliament, and the debate should be much wider. The first act of privatisation sees a President of the Council bearing the surname Amato. The second act is managed by a President of the Council with the name Prodi. But let us move on to the third act, the one in which this decree is discussed, in which the President of the Council brings other surnames: Letta, Alfano. In essence, they are three Presidents of the Council - as it happens - all of left-wing extraction: three Presidents of the Council - the first, the second and the third - who bear important surnames, but who belong to a culture, to a given culture. I don't want to make any insinuations, but I do some reflections and findings. Today, with the extension of the persons authorized to hold the shares, these, in addition to the banks, can be foundations, insurances, institutions and pension institutions, including pension funds and financial intermediaries. We have heard the rapporteur say that they could have quotas, not the banks based in Europe, but the financial intermediaries, who will make proper use of them in their own interests. The maximum amount of dividends available to shareholders is 6% of the capital; then there is the authorisation for participating banks to include in their balance sheets the revaluation of the capital shares of the Bank of Italy. By providing for the maximum limit of 5% of capital held by each participant, the Bank of Italy is transformed - in fact - into a public company, i.e. a company with widespread share ownership. This formula absolutely does not guarantee market shares. It can even be dangerous, as the upper limit of 5% of the capital held by each participant does not prevent alliances between shareholders capable of controlling the majority of the Institute (shareholders who are then the same subjects on which the Central Bank is called to supervise). Union agreements between Italian and Italian and foreign shareholders will also become possible, which will require the implementation of decision-making powers in the interest of the State and which will inevitably limit the decision-making autonomy of the Bank of Italy. Finally, allowing financial intermediaries to hold capital shares opens up the possibility that the ownership of the Bank of Italy, now of private banks usurping the seigniorage, may become foreign. This would trigger the first case in the world of a central bank held by a majority of different nationalities and benefit from the income achieved by the Bank of Italy, both for the primary seigniorage and the issue of new currency, as well as the assets of securities trading and reserve management. It is hardly appropriate to point out that, with a foreign majority of the Bank of Italy, our State would find itself as a third outsider and would end up counting nothing more, both within the European Central Bank and within the European Banking Union, supervised by the European Central Bank. The Italian credit policy would instead be managed from abroad, considering that, with the new provisions, it will not be possible in any way to prohibit non-European entities to enter indirectly into the capital of Bankitalia through participations in institutions that are similar to European banks. The operation advocated by Minister Saccomanni will constitute, for the institutional bodies of our State and the small Italian banks, a large liquidity disbursement - as reiterated - for the benefit of the two reminiscent credit institutions holding the majority capital, which will be able to reduce the 5 billion euros. The capital gain on the shares of the individual banks will allow, for the coffers of Erario, a maximum total revenue of not more than € 1.5 billion. Moreover, the revaluation of shares will strengthen the capitalisation of banks holding shares, which will, from the accounting point of view, revalue their assets, without the contribution of fresh capital, as the European legislation would like. It is inferred that the State, in order to collect perhaps a little more than a billion euros, will sell the Institute of Via Nazionale, with the large dividends to the banks, without the need of prior clarity. In fact, it is clear that the experts in charge are not aware of what is owned by the Italian Central Bank, nor of all things in simple management to the same, nor - finally - of the large sums that would be forced to pay out the State and the Regions, in case they decide to enter the capital of the Bank of Italy, whose shares - it is reiterated - have never been the subject of paid disposal, but of a simple hand-over following the transformation of the banks under public law into companies for speculative shares. In this way, current banks and companies, holding shares since 1993, have collected profits, dividends and primary seigniorage to the detriment of Italian citizens. In fact, if we carefully analyse the monetary system, as currently conceived, we will notice that compared to the past, when the value of money was determined by the material actually used to mint coins - usually gold and silver, metals recognized as precious - today the value of money is represented by the nominal value stamped on the banknote or on the coin, regardless of the actual cost used to print it. The break in this link between material value and nominal value occurred in 1971. It should be borne in mind, then, that when the Italian Government asks the European Central Bank, for example, for a loan of EUR 500 to make a balance sheet, the European Central Bank cannot issue it directly, after the due assurances on its repayment, it grants it at an interest rate of 1% or 2%. The ECB will then print the 500 euro banknote, with a further increase due to labour and production costs, which is about one euro. Well, as a private institution, it would be expected that the ECB would sell the banknote to Italy at a price obtained from the sum of labour and production costs, plus a legitimate increase in income, for example a euro. One plus one is, in fact, two. On the contrary, what does the ECB do, Mr President? It provides for the entry of labour and production costs (one euro, for example) not in the outgoing items of your balance sheet - you, Minister, know this much better than I do - but directly the nominal value printed on the banknote (500 euro). On the other hand, on the other hand, he entered directly, in the entry items of his balance sheet, the sum between the nominal amount printed on the banknote, in addition to the labour and production costs, and the gain obtained (i.e. 502 euros), when, on the contrary, he had to enter, as income, only the sum between the labour and production costs and the gain obtained. This means that the bankers, against a banknote cost a few euros (one euro, for example), will gain the beauty of 499 euros, while Italy will be indefatigable entirely for the nominal value of the banknote, instead of the material value alone. What does all this involve? Italy will be forced to recover, through the tax instrument, its public debt: a real fraud, there is nothing to say. This is what we had to deal with in this House. This is the reason why the colleagues of Forza Italia, like others of the 5 Star Movement, had asked to separate the discussion of the two topics, to discuss it extensively here, and not to create difficulties but to reason in the interests of the Country Italy, our children and our companies. That is what we were asking for. So, what should we do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, I invite you to conclude your speech. The 15 minutes at your disposal are running out: you have 30 seconds left. What should we do, then, in summary, Mr President? We should return the Bank of Italy to the Italians. We should return the difference between the real value and the commercial value of money to the country, handing it over to the hands of those who need it. We should restore fairness within our country. Nothing, then, against the Bank of Italy, but so much against usurpers, that is to say those banks that hold the majority in the Bank of Italy and deprive us of the lifeblood, that is, monetary sovereignty. Returning monetary sovereignty to Italy, we will certainly do a great thing: we will get our country out of the difficulties; we will break down our public debt; we will raise the economy and give small and medium-sized enterprises the chance to be competitive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, I invite you to conclude. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I invite you to take note of the reflections that take place within Parliament and to remove the issue of the Bank of Italy to discuss it extensively and serenely in the interests of our children in the near future at an ad hoc session. Let us not put on our conscience a guilt that we will hardly be able to wash! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u61	Mr President, the decree-law we are debating today - as we know - has urgent provisions on three issues: the abolition of the second instalment of the IMU and its cover, the process of valorisation and disposal of public property and the revaluation and allocation of the shares owned by the Bank of Italy. For reasons of time, in my brief speech, I will focus mainly on the third issue, the one concerning the shares of Banca d'Italia. As we know, a number of problems have been dealt with in the decree, and I would like to summarize them in three points: the problem of ownership structure, the question of the extent of the revaluation of quotas and the question of the distribution of the proceeds of such revaluation. On the first point we must say that we have all recognised and recognize the value of the independence and autonomy of the central banks of the countries of the euro area, and in particular of the Bank of Italy. However, we must begin to understand ourselves, because independence and autonomy are two concepts to be kept distinct, not to be used as synonyms; otherwise the content of this decree is also difficult to understand. They must be kept separate, because different ways of ensuring the independence of a central bank on the one hand and the autonomy of a central bank on the other. Let us start with independence and make it clear that it is in no way assured by a particular model of ownership. It is not because, in reality, the central banks of the euro area are all independent, but the ownership structure behind them is relatively different in the various countries and depends on the institutional and political structure of these. What then guarantees the independence of the Central Bank, and in particular of the Bank of Italy? We know this: first of all Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; then Article 7, Chapter III, of the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank; then the functions of the Central Bank which we know concerns Article 19, Chapter IV, of the Regulation on the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Union. This is what guarantees the independence of the central banks, so much so that, when the euro was formed and they had to go to see these structures, Italy was not asked for any revision. It was asked of France and England: the only two countries for which it proved to be an independence which was not considered compatible with those treaties. This is very important because, from this point of view, the choice does not call into question the independence of the Central Bank. It is a choice that can of course be made on the basis of assessments. From this point of view, the choice made in this decree is to reaffirm and modernise a ownership structure, the widespread property that - as we know - has worked well for many decades, because it has guaranteed not only the independence of the Treaties, but above all the reputation, efficiency and role of the Central Bank. In theory, there is no doubt that public property can also be supported: in fact, we find different models. The problem - in my opinion - is that, in this case, the possibility of reaching a public property would have posed problems of such a nature that they suggested, in fact, the practice of not pursuing this path. Therefore, the choice of rationalization of the ownership structure was in accordance with a tradition and those that were, in fact, the data we collected. As far as autonomy is concerned, which is other than independence, how is it guaranteed in this case? Here we come to a series of facts that have undoubtedly strengthened and strengthen the autonomy of the Bank of Italy. There was a property that somehow belonged to intermediaries, but there was an anomaly in it, being strongly concentrated in some actors. In a sense, the decree shelters this anomaly, because it places a bond, which was originally 5% and which in the new wording has been raised to 3%, which leads to a strong spread of ownership and shares, thus strengthening the autonomy of the Central Bank. Another important fact is that the prohibition for those participating in the capital and, therefore, for the bodies elected by them to influence decisions concerning the institutional activities of the Bank of Italy itself has been strengthened. From this point of view, once again, autonomy is somewhat enhanced by these provisions. With regard to the method used for the revaluation of the capital of the Bank of Italy, the findings of the European Central Bank are not that it has been called into question. There are three methods and all three can be subjected to the same criticism, in the sense that there is no optimal one. What the European Central Bank points out is the need to have more data available to assess this method. From this point of view, however, there is no question that a method has been used rather than the other two. It is important to stress once again that, in terms of the distribution of profits, conditions have been met and conditions respected. This brings me to the aspect which may give rise to some concern: the negotiation of these quotas. Let us be clear: we are talking about the market, but it will be completely abnormal, since there will be no question of a series of prices which can then be decided by itself. It will be a title with an annuity over time. Therefore, the safeguards we need to ask for are precisely times when the Central Bank can make sure that it is a controlled market. In fact, we are not talking about any stock, but about the shares of the Central Bank. I therefore believe that a number of points have been included in the amendments to the decree on this marketability. It is important, however, that there is monitoring and that, therefore, the procedure that will take place over the next three years is closely monitored by Parliament, because it is important that it is carried out according to these dictates. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u62	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u63	Mr President, I believe that the plurality of the content that coexists with this decree, of which the Senate confirmed only recently the constitutionality, is founded as constitutionally legitimate on the connection of these same contents, which I see in a fundamental element: their essentiality in order to guarantee the effectiveness of the annual and multiannual budgetary results, as we voted only a few weeks ago. I would like to focus on the three key points of the decree, starting with the IMU 2013 affair that this measure closes after, unfortunately, it has marked, conditioned and weighed down the action of the Government in the field of budgetary policy and economic policy, creating distortions - in my opinion - very strong in the use of resources and also in the distribution of taxation. With this operation we must close one phase and open another one that defines as a regime a taxation of the house and a system of relations, on the taxation of real estate between State and local authorities that is consistent, and also with the models of the major developed countries. We confirm that we believe that the house should be taxed, because we need to shift taxation on real estate and securities, in order to alleviate taxation on corporate and labour income. We therefore think that this ideological approach to the issue of real estate taxation should be abandoned, in order to accept a pragmatic and coherent approach. The operation IMU 2013 comes in this decree concluded with the coverage of the second tranche of full exemption from the IMU, as set and wanted by a part of the then majority government. However, this is a bit of a cover-up, because the advance of IRES and IRAP taxation for credit and financial institutions is even increased to 128.5%, thanks to an extra extraordinary IRES that will then be re-absorbed. There is no doubt, however, that this method of coverage creates (as much as Minister Saccomanni does not want to recognize it) a substantial, albeit not formal, connection with the other part of the decree, that of the revaluation of the shares of Banca d'Italia, which will produce benefits in terms of assets and income account on the banking system. I share many of Mr Guerrieri Paleotti's comments on the fact that this approach does not call into question neither the independence nor the autonomy of the Bank of Italy as elements of protection that some of the changes introduced have strengthened with the proprietary model indicated. There is no doubt, however, that the connection to which I referred exists and that the issue, if there had not been the substantial urgency of rebalancing between the two elements with which fiscally and economically intervenes on the credit and banking system, would have better been located in a bill that allowed Parliament to dig out more deeply all the implications, including those concerning the future of the way of negotiating the shares of Banca d'Italia, problematic highlighted by my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti and on which I do not return. Taking up the issue of the IMU, I would like to make another point. I think it is necessary to change our perspective, also in relation to the hypothesis that we have read in the newspapers of a possible increase or remodulation of the tax burden of TASI on the first house and other real estate in order to cover an additional requirement of the municipalities. In my opinion, this method must be abandoned. The overall tax burden and the tax burden on the housing area must be determined ex ante: it cannot be a tap that opens by squeezing taxpayers according to the financial needs of the municipalities. The municipalities, according to the federalist approach, must have a clear and stable tax system, within which, however, they must maintain the expenditure of their budgets. It is not possible, in fact, to cover with tax to list the greater needs of the Municipalities, and the seat to determine the fiscal balance is the law. For the real estate taxation of the municipalities the competence is that of the state law and, therefore, it is Parliament that must determine these balances, which cannot be put back to an intergovernmental forum such as that of the State-Regions Conference and local autonomy. Parliament is the place where the overall tax burden and the distribution of expenditure between different levels of government need to be determined. Otherwise, in the way we went forward, negotiating tax quotas to cover additional local spending quotas, the last to be protected is the taxpayer. So, before proposing any other manoeuvres on real estate taxation, I think we need to think about the method. In the same way it is necessary to reflect on the TASI, because what is prefigured - at least from what is read in the decree - that is a very strong differentiation between TASI relative to the first house and TASI relative to other real estate, would lead to lose completely the characteristic, precisely, of tax/tariff linked to the mode of production and management of the cycle of the waste and would transform it more and more into a second real estate tax, with the effects - in my opinion negative - that this would have on both the tax and the real estate market. I would also like to make a brief comment on one point, which is not very much taken into account in the debate on Article 3 of the Decree, which concerns rules aimed at simplifying the procedures for real estate disposal. There is an amendment from the Commission which I believe, Minister, deserves further consideration. They are taken from the plans of real estate disposal, probably appropriately and legitimately, areas and goods of particular environmental or cultural value. But what I think is really unacceptable is that it is legally possible for these areas and goods to be removed from disposal programmes, even if they are currently transferred to them, to be managed only by public institutions. We live in a country where there are not only public institutions that, in terms of finance, are no longer able to manage anything, but also very important private institutions that have a history and prestige in the management and valorization of environmental and cultural assets. Moreover, this statist approach is contrary to Article 9 of our Constitution, which entrusts to the Republic, in the plurality of its public and private systems, the valorization and protection of these goods. I would therefore urge the Government to reflect on this approach which I have seen accepted in an amendment from the Commission. Finally, on the issue of the Bank of Italy I fully recognize myself in the considerations put forward by my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti, on which I do not dwell. On the part concerning the regulation of the market of the shares of Bank of Italy, which will be determined as a result of the process of reducing the shares held by the major credit institutions, it will be necessary instead to deepen in order to avoid the risks mentioned. With these problematic considerations, we will, however, evaluate the amendments and the whole measure. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Zanda]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I shall vote in favour of converting the decree-law into law on IMU and Banca d'Italia, but I will do so with some reservations, which I would like to keep in the minutes, both for the further parliamentary path of the decree-law to the House, and - I hope - for that update of the Single Bank Text of 1993 in the framework of the European Banking Union, which I believe is our task, of Parliament and the Government, for the year 2014. The first reservations concern information on the methods of revaluation. The European Central Bank itself tells us that the criterion adopted is based on conjectural data, on which it would like to know a little more. It is not enough, as was done in the hearings in the Commission, to mention that there may be several criteria that give different results. It is also necessary to explain how these different criteria and results are justified and why, within the fork finally indicated by the Bank of Italy and its experts, the highest tooth (€7.5 billion) compared to the lowest tooth (€5 billion). You, Minister, told us in the Finance Committee that this was the figure closest to some sort of compensation. I don't understand what damage has been compensated. Article 40 of the Statute of the Bank of Italy provides for the possibility of a remuneration of shares on the basis of net profit, but up to 4% of reserves. Now, Article 40 provides for up to 4 per cent, does not say 4 per cent. This means that it has always been legitimate for the Bank of Italy's decision to pay the quotists well below this supplementary ceiling. What emerges from the acts and the statutes themselves is that this distribution of profits was proposed by the Board of Governors and approved, again unanimously, by the assembly of participants. Well, superior council and assembly are expressions of the will of the members: if so they have decided, what they have today to claim for me is difficult to understand. I shall now come to the second point. It is said that the mere fact that an additional remuneration of the shares is expected, no matter how much, by virtue of the reserves it integrates a right of ownership of the participants in the capital of the Bank of Italy on the reserves themselves. Is that really true? Honestly, I am not a lawyer, but I have some doubts, because the reserves derive from profits set aside over time, which derive, all, from advertising activities that the State has entrusted to the Bank of Italy under a monopoly regime. Let's talk about the seigniorage, but also everything else. When I asked to define the distinction between public and private activities, I was told that they are practically all publicistic. It can be argued that the additional remuneration of the shares from the reserves is therefore only a method of calculation, a reference that does not presuppose a right of ownership. In any case, it would be interesting (and we are still in time to give this information to the House) for this legal profile to be further developed. On the other hand, this hypothetical right on reserves is now cancelled (therefore it is possible to cancel it), when it is established that the quotists are entitled to share capital and nothing more. What does revaluation mean then? What's the point of compensation? Was there a private activity that you can't see, that no one has seen, that is, there was a fair deal with the banks to avoid causes? But is there a credible case speech on this matter? If there has been this fair agreement with the banks, further information can also be given to the House, because of this we have not heard. The opinion of the European Central Bank - which, I recall, came after the end of the debate in the Commission - also covers, among other things, the way in which shares will be recorded in the bank's balance sheets, for supervisory purposes, i.e. the capitalization of banks, which is useful for the conduct of banking activities. The inclusion of shares in the supervisory assets is possible, which is not the case today, if they are included in the assets that are valid for trading. But in order to have such validity, these quotas and securities will have to be effectively negotiated and negotiable. Will it be? The numbers give me some doubt. Quotas are financial securities without power, and it is good that they do not have power, for all the reasons that my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti indicated before. Their attractiveness therefore depends only on their performance. And what should be a bond yield of this nature? Considering that this is not a risk free title, it should be something higher than Btp yields: 4 or 4.5 percent, to stay low. Then we are talking about dividends of EUR 300-350 million per year, which the Bank of Italy should give to the quotists. Well, the checks we have carried out do not show that the assembly of 31 May 2014 will be given such a dividend to the quotists. Then I wonder why these securities should be bought in a market logic, even of a sui generis market. Why do you want to be part of the club? But you are part of a club or because you have fun or because you get benefits. We're gonna rule out the fun. I then wonder what the benefits might be, since, and it is right that so, these titles do not have governance rights. In the doubt, the Bank of Italy proposes (and the decree says this) as guarantor of a placement that appears unlikely. It is proposed to withdraw the inoptate, especially the one from Intesa San Paolo, Unicredit, Generali and INPS. But it is not said for how long the Bank of Italy will keep this inoptate on its books. Nor does it say, if tomorrow were to indicate a time, a deadline, what the Bank of Italy should do with the titles that would remain on the books. I'm going to conclude. The European Central Bank believes that this is precisely the outcome, where it requires the Bank of Italy to rebuild the reserves that are being reduced in order to increase the share capital. This indicates a distrust in the fact that the trading of securities takes place among the quotists without involving the Bank with a cash exit. But the European Central Bank also says that the fair value of a security, fair value, must be calculated according to international accounting standards. Now, without a listing of this title, I find it hard to see how you can indicate the fair value according to which the securities themselves can be included in the assets available for trading. We risk having liquid securities, if they are in the hands of the quotists, or own securities (of own shares), a kind of anodine buy-back, if they remain in the books of the Bank of Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Cucchetti. MUCCHETTI (PD). The Bank of Italy is itself aware of this problem and, in the new statute, entrusts the management of the skein to the Board. I simply want to say that it will be up to Parliament, the Senate and the House to ensure that this problem is resolved in the best possible way, because the decree as it is - a decree that I shall vote on - does not solve it. [[Applause from Senator Gotor]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u66	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be denied that the measure has a critical follow-up. We are faced with the umpteenth omnibus decree-law, where different subjects, with different urgencys, are put together apparently without a logical sense, without forgetting then the questionable amendments that are made to satisfy this or that, leaving out - for the umpteenth time - important issues, for which there have also been several commitments of the Government. The debate in this House comes a little late in relation to the work of the Commission. Meanwhile, important issues such as the management of the IMU have been addressed in other measures that have become law, such as stability, thus renewing the total confusion that exists legally on this side. At first it was said that there would be a government amendment that would clarify the fate of the so-called IUC, a tax that replaced the same IMU, including the TARES on waste, or that there would be an intervention to clarify the issue of the IMU on the first house for the year 2013. But it is true that such important interventions deserve at least an equally important passage in the Commissions. A further reflection must be made on the component of the measure in the matter of Banca d'Italia, whose presuppositions of urgency are undoubtedly questionable and which, combined with the provisions in the matter of IMU, raises more than a doubt on the lack of homogeneity of this measure and therefore on the complexity of a political confrontation and deepening, which have certainly been lacking. Mine does not want to be a mere controversy or a questioning of trust in this Government, but a reflection on the state of affairs, on the obvious fragmentation of the matter, which is literally sending taxpayers, citizens and local authorities, and on the risk of running into a legislative and parliamentary path of poor quality. On the other hand, today's measure is undoubtedly lacking in more detail, especially since there has not been an inclusive will for provisions worthy of attention. I refer, for example, to the lack of approval of the recognition of family allowances for our workers abroad; an amendment, among other things, also set aside during the budgetary session and shared with the Government. And, again as an example, I refer to the government's failure to intervene in the case of property owned by residents abroad. Within the framework of the IMU discipline of this decree - this is a further aspect of the fragmentation and incompleteness of the matter - in the case of this case the properties belonging to this category are placed in a sort of regulatory periphery, in which there is a principle of discretion in the hands of the Municipalities. We have said this from the beginning, I am talking about April 2012, Minister, that we did not like this rule. It is a rule that - among other things - has been confirmed by the law of stability and that camouflages, under an apparent appearance of willingness to open, a position at the limits of legitimacy. In fact, it cannot be said to municipalities that have the power to recognize as their main residence that of residents abroad because, considering how they are put, they will never apply that possibility. From the first two IMU decrees, passing through the law of stability in its first reading to the Senate, attempts to modify and compare with the Government do not count, as well as the commitments accepted. We have tried to propose mediated solutions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, last at the hearings in the 6th Commission just before the Christmas break. The closure towards a solution of this measure leaves little room for imagination. Once again, I would like to remind this House and the Government of what is really happening. The houses owned by our compatriots are not luxury villas, as someone believes; they are simple houses, mostly family memories or hereditary bequests, often present in the humble provinces of the country. Therefore, I want to renew the invitation to the Minister and the Government to find a definitive solution. The objective - I repeat - is to allow our compatriots, who do not have any property abroad and may be owners of small structures in Italy, to have access to the status of main dwelling (this would be important especially for some social categories of compatriots), also because of the fact that the Law of 24 March 1993, n. 75, already provided for this provision. The recognition of non-holding of other property in the place of residence or in any case to the particular economic condition of the owner could be linked to the certification of the non-holding of other property. I wanted to propose to the House the amendment 1.26, which I signed and also signed by all my colleagues elected abroad, which aims precisely to overcome the principle of discretion of the municipalities and can be considered as a premise for a hypothesis of intervention by the Government. I am also prepared to withdraw this and the other amendments tabled, only on condition that the Government takes the commitment to repeal the principle of discretion in relation to the Municipalities in the next relevant measure. I would like to stress that we wanted to address this measure with a proactive spirit, by making our contribution in the 6th permanent Commission and proposing amendments that would go in the direction of resolving some critical situations, which - as highlighted - concern the everyday lives of our citizens across borders. These are common sense initiatives, which are certainly far removed from the propaganda amendments that Parliament is increasingly speaking about. The common sense proposals themselves have not been considered worthy of attention, as the reports show. This should invite everyone to reflect. For this reason, I would like to turn further to the parliamentary groups and to the House in its entirety, calling for a review of certain restrictive positions on the proposals highlighted, so that the real conditions are created to arrive at definitive and shared solutions, which in any case cannot be separated from a systematic reorganization of the entire regulatory system, on which I am sure that the Government considers it appropriate to intervene with some speed. My position is not to be seen as that of the parliamentary group to which I belong, but as that of the elected component abroad of Parliament, in a very transversal way, because the amending proposals have exactly this matrix. Therefore, I think I speak on behalf of this group, all too often unheard. In the light of these considerations, I believe it is right for the Government to clarify what it intends to do about the discipline covered by the measure in question, with regard to the case of property owned by residents abroad, or rather what its precise position is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio, I invite you to conclude your speech. DI BIAGIO (PI). Allow me to conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that I am also prepared to withdraw the proposals tabled in this House. If there is no real response from the Government, I do not rule out the possibility of reconsidering the orientation of my vote on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u68	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u69	Mr President, we have already had the opportunity today, during the discussion of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP3, to highlight a number of issues, which we believe to be absolutely important, concerning the measure under consideration. First of all, we continue to consider this decree-law absolutely unconstitutional, because, as we read (by admission of the Government itself) in the title, it is a decree-law that deals with absolutely heterogeneous and inconsistent issues between them. With regard to the issue, in particular, of the Bank of Italy, I would remind the Minister that repeatedly, before the Christmas break, during the work of the Commission, we have tried to put questions of absolute reasonableness which, among other things, other colleagues have raised, proposing to delete the articles concerning the Bank of Italy, which would certainly deserve a more in-depth discussion. The decree-law, moreover, does not only and only the revaluation of the shares, but a profound modification of the structure of the Bank of Italy and therefore, in some way, of its own aims. Since in the Commission I honestly did not receive satisfactory answers to the questions I raised, (this is the other point we raised with the question for a preliminary ruling) it is not clear how urgent it is to intervene by decree-law on the Bank of Italy. In fact, as the Minister well knows (he cannot fail to understand it) and as many colleagues of majority and opposition have asked, the issue would have deserved a much more in-depth discussion and a debate that would involve much more the country. I say this because the choices you are about to make will obviously have a weight and a not indifferent emphasis. I welcome the work done in the Commission. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the President for the broad debate and the attempt to remedy the haste and urgency by trying to acquire more elements and make a number of changes (then we will see whether they will be confirmed by the vote of this House) which, undoubtedly, have changed the text and recognized the validity of a number of issues put and adopted in committees, certainly not secondary ones. For example, some of the rules contained in Article 4 of the Decree-Law are undoubtedly relevant, we cannot fail to recognise it, but do not modify - that is the point - the substance of the provision. The issue of Italianity, having reduced quotas from 5% to 3% are certainly important facts, but - I repeat - they do not change the substance of the measure, which we consider wrong. Now, going back to the fundamental issues dealt with by the decree, on the IMU frankly, Minister, we expected (as was also announced) the presentation of amendments of the Government, always on the remodulation of the rates, which seems instead that they will not be presented. I would stress this to say that we are now faced with a real mess. It has been eight months, Minister, that we are turning around this matter of the IMU, creating dismay in the citizens and ensuring that they will still face a reposition of taxation which will certainly not be less than that which was eliminated for 2013. The truth is only one, now, and I believe that you, Minister, are aware of it, because it seems to me that in some of your interviews in some way you have recognized it: the mistake was to have wanted at all costs, for purely ideological reasons (because this is the truth), to try to keep inside the then PdL in the government team, to insist on asserting an ideological position, that of the abolition of the IMU on the first house, which created, in a chain, all the situations that we are constantly facing today, creating an absolutely incredible condition for citizens. You know perfectly well that the IMU could be brought back to a tax in some progressive way, so those who had less could and should have had straight to the exemption, as well as many deductions that made it practically irrelevant, but maintaining the IMU for the wealthiest classes could have maintained at the head of the State a series of resources that could be more profitablely used in the difficult situation in which the country is located. All that we are discussing about decree in decree (the one we are considering today on the second instalment, the amendment that you will perhaps present to the decree on local authorities on the updating of rates) is the consequence of this choice, which we continue to feel wrong, and everything that has happened in recent months is confirming this. Returning to the second question, relating to the Bank of Italy (which, I repeat, should have been deleted from Articles 4 to 6), you are doing an operation that first of all completely cancels public control over the Institute, because as far as Article 4 establishes the principle that the Bank of Italy is obviously a body governed by public law, in fact all this is denied. That is the fundamental point. Among other things, Article 6 repeals paragraph 10 of Article 19 of Law No 262 of 28 December 2005 on the protection of savings and the discipline of financial markets, which, as you know, Minister, provided that the capital of the Bank of Italy had to return entirely to the State. This is the juice of the measure. In addition, no answers were given, for example, on the reason why the revaluation of quotas was set at 7.5 billion, and not 1.5 billion. In fact, the whole system will bring a very useful benefit to the participating banks, because it means that we will go to a profit redistribution of 6% on these 7.5 billion, equal to 450 million, forever. It is a transaction, therefore, which is certainly in favour of the banks, and then perhaps the urgency of the decree, even if you have denied it, obviously has to do with the issue of the stress tests planned for our banks. The main question, however, is that the profits of the Bank of Italy come from what is a common good, i.e. from seigniorage and therefore from advertising activities (among other things the reasoning made earlier by the President of the Industry Commission went in this direction). Therefore, from an activity that gives profits that are of public heritage, because they derive from the seigniorage and therefore from what we consider, in some way - also this - a common good, therefore from an activity with clearly public profile are redistributed useful. A decree of urgency therefore makes a transaction that transforms the Bank of Italy, amends the rules of the Savings Act and makes an operation that, in our opinion, is not in line, for example, with the other European banks. Among other things, someone will still have to explain to me why we do not do what has been done for the German Central Bank: I am referring to operations on the redistribution reserves vis-à-vis the State, which would certainly have given us a great advantage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, I remind you of time limits. I do not want your Group to run out of time for the amendments. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. Without prejudice to the fact that we will have the opportunity, even at the stage of explaining the amendments, to deepen the subject, frankly it has not been understood - certainly not understood by the country - why this operation is being carried out in such a hurry. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u71	Mr President, we find ourselves in this House dealing with yet another strange decree-law. Before Christmas we had dealt with the scandalous situation of the City of Rome (if you remember, I refer to the related decree). Today's news, which appeared in all the newspapers, is that of a lawsuit between Minister Saccomanni and his colleague Carrozza about an obscene request to teachers of 150 euros: we put it on the table too. [[Applause from Senator Serra]] The nice thing was that, at the moment the news came out, they started to come e-mails from teachers, who historically are always very close to the center-left, who are telling us: these are crazy. They say it, we don't say it. Today we feel a little uncomfortable talking about IMU and taxation to the honest people who work and who are currently making a deck to survive: not to earn, to survive. All the actors involved in the IMU affair are harshly criticising the government's work: citizens, municipalities, trade associations, property owners and tenants. Here too, as has happened too often in recent months, you have managed to make everyone angry: you have managed to agree all against this Government. On the IMU the measure establishes the rapid compensation in favour of the municipalities for the abolition of the second instalment on the first houses. This appropriation will cover 60% of the increases planned by the municipalities, while 40% will be paid by the citizens. Also the other day some citizens called me asking me what they have to pay for the mini-IMU. We do not know yet, because some municipalities - practically - do not yet know. Corned and mashed, we might say. Excuse me, Minister, weren't you the ones who told the whole of Italy that you would reduce taxes? Perhaps we have misunderstood; perhaps the Italian citizens have misunderstood. Once again, beautiful proclamations, but then, when you return to the facts, you are always taxed. As I said, this issue has brought strong criticism from the municipalities and citizens to a government that is unable to meet its promises. How can we believe you once again? Promise and you can't keep. How do you cover all this? With an increase in IRES and IRAP borne by banks and insurance companies. Again, we are not in favour of the banks, unlike you, but we are opposed to new taxes that no one assures us that they will not be turned on the final customers. It is also interesting paragraph 6 of Article 2 of the measure: the failure to collect a substantial share of the planned sanctions on games and VAT revenues triggered the safeguard clause in order to recover 645 million euros that, even in this case, are missing. The result is an increase of 1.5% in IRES and IRAP payments. Here too, Minister, we would like to say that we are in favour of abolishing the IMU, but with a unique method, not with these methods by which we do not understand anything. We have not understood anything for months and if we do not understand that we are in this House, think of the Italian citizens. Go around the streets, do it really - once I invited the same President Letta to go around asking about the Italian streets - go around, go to markets, not to trade unions or trade associations: go around asking the Italians if they understood anything about this IMU and what you are doing during this period. The measure in our examination, which in theory would like to wink at fiscal federalism, has two weaknesses. First of all, it does not realize that the first house does not produce income and that it is instead a debt. The first house has never produced income: in the first house you invest money, you do maintenance, you do everything, so it is a debt. Secondly, our cadastral indices are to be revised, and they are all saying this: our cadastral indices are to be revised, not just cadastral indices. We also want to highlight another important aspect: it is unworthy of everyone - so not only on your part - to find resources you always look at the usual sectors. You are killing buildings and the real estate market, two very important sectors of the Italian economy. Who's paying? Always the usual. Today the President of Confessile affirms that the owners of the real estate are treated as ATMs. He's perfectly right, they're treated like chicken to be plucked by a majority that sees property almost as a crime to be punished. I will be brief, because I want my colleagues to have some time for any amendments. Before Christmas, if you remember, I had given you a few treats of "marchette" with reference to the so-called decree save Rome. Today I give two more gifts to this House, unfortunately always empty on the same side. I'll quote you two thrilling sentences. The first one: Italy would improve if you paid 450 euros more per year on each apartment. For those who own an apartment, it is an average of just 40 euros more per month (and not my own words). What about the IMU cut? Other sentence: "Six months dedicated to a tax that on average is worth 250 euros per family is wasted time". Those are two sentences that are creepy right now, and I hope they come to you, too, Minister. I tell you who said it: Filippo Taddei, newly appointed economic manager in the Democratic Party of Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Well, in this Milwaukee of Happy Days, where the secretary of the Democratic Party stands in Fonzie of Italy, I wonder what Mr. Taddei represents, if Fonzie, Ralph Malph, Richie Cunningham, Spadino, or who else of this farce of Italy, in which we are increasingly concerned by the secretary of the Democratic Party, who does not intervene on statements of this kind, but only in television nonsense. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Once again, Mr President - let us return to serious matters and finish - the mother of all evils is being treated: evasion. This is where, if you want, you find the resources. Abuseful neighborhoods, abusive cities, cities with a land register from the Third World (and we all know who I'm talking about and which cities I'm talking about). As in the decree "Salva Roma," a part of the country pays and part of the country enjoys and eats. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly vote in favour of this measure. Of course, it is necessary to specify some things concerning the three main arguments that this decree deals with. As far as the Bank of Italy is concerned, it has been said a lot and more, in a varied way, here. I refer to the considerations of my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti, adding also a note of historical character to 'excursus made noticamente by Senator Scilipoti. Certainly the evolution of our issuing institution, beginning with its genesis, through the Banches of the ancient States and the regulatory interventions of 1936 and 1992, can only lead to the present development. This is to be considered an evolution not discontinuous with respect to a financial and economic history of our country that, as it saw in the long time the unification of the Banchi coming from the ancient States, now previews the evolution towards the European Central Bank. This redesign of our Bank of Italy therefore falls within an absolutely coherent evolutionary logic, at least according to my assessments. The transitional phase provided for in this decree, however, has, in the end, one point still to be clarified. The buy back, provided for in the event that institutions with shares greater than 3% do not have to be able to place them within the deadline, cannot of course be a definitive solution: rather it must be a further transitional solution towards a further placement, and I think and hope that the Government - both the current and what will be the government of the time - wants to examine the possibility of a placement on the ordinary market and not only on an elitist market such as the one planned for now during the relocation phase of the participations. On the other hand, those who today complain of excessive concentrations of these holdings in individual institutions could and should have considered this matter over time, given that this situation has drifted since the Bank of Italy launched the merger policy of the national banking system. Since then, there has been an awareness that this merger policy - and as it took place, if it had the hang of it - would reach the concentration of the shares held by some institutes in the Bank of Italy. It was therefore possible, even by the Bank of Italy itself, when the merger plans were approved, to establish certain restrictions on this type of merger. However, we are now faced with a solution to the problem, and we hope that it will indeed be so. We hope, however, that, at the end of the transitional phase, the further phase deriving from the buy back provided by the Bank of Italy can then result in an effective placing on the market in a widespread way of the securities of our Institute of Issue. I shall now briefly comment on the other two arguments, going backwards in the order of the decree. As far as buildings are concerned, we are continuing, Minister, to hesitate to regulate the disposal of public buildings without tackling the subject in full and in its complexity. During the various interventions in the Chamber and in the course of the question time, she herself showed us the Government's willingness to put in place a mechanism for the valorization of the properties of the available assets of the State, which could also fulfil the function of a reduction of the public debt. We have not really seen any of this and we continue to hope that this will happen, because we would like to make our contribution on this road. The valorization of the public buildings of the available assets of the State, connected to the reduction of the public debt, therefore through a financial vehicle that can allow the issuance of the land records and, therefore, over time the valorization of the same buildings seen in their totality, is definitely a road that, in our opinion, can be travelled avoiding this recourse to a continuous series of small interventions facilitated, simplified and of temporary financial necessity. These interventions give the feeling of that distracted family that, having a large debt and a large palace, it sells a small portion of it occasionally and, in the end, always finds itself with the big debt and no longer the palace because instead it does not provide for a disposal or at least a program of disposal that allows to effectively reduce the debt. We ask you for further consideration, a follow-up to what we have said on many occasions both in the Commission and in this House: a precise action to reduce public debt through the use of the available assets of the State and local authorities. Personally, in fact, I did not conceptually share at the time the mechanism of state federalism, which deprived the State of a large part of its resources and property guarantees placed in the garrison of the public debt. At the same time, however, I believe that local authorities must also play their part in the process of valorising property and their assets, which we know is absolutely exorbitant to their instrumental needs, in addition to continuing new acquisitions on their part. I believe that a measure (a draft law followed by an appropriate debate in the Commissions and in the Chamber) covering the whole matter of the disposal of the available public assets and, above all, a better use of the assets of local authorities can be useful not only from the academic point of view (we should never do academies in the parliamentary classrooms, but only discuss concrete things), but also in order to rationalise at the same time that very important part relating to the future of our Parliament and of our country, that is, the revision of public expenditure, which is fundamental for things to change. I think and hope that Dr. Cottarelli will also pay attention to the subject. If in this country there is a waste, one of many, it is certainly the one dictated by the bad use of public real estate, which is immense but absolutely unproductive and often not adequately valued for the purposes of a real and useful realization. A third point, which I think is related to this, is that of the IMU. With the decree at our examination we closed the manoeuvre 2013, with all its lights and shadows. However, we are now facing a serious problem relating to the year 2014 which comes from the pressure of local authorities who would like to change what has been decided by this Parliament with the law of stability. It therefore announces our strong criticality about any kind of proposal that wants to change what is decided in that measure, and if necessary I refer my considerations to the debate on the amending proposals. We will be critical because we believe that local authorities must first clarify the expenditure items of their budgets, especially in relation to the TARI. I am only addressing this issue in order to postpone the rest in the debate which I hope will open up in the Government, the majority and the Parliament on this matter, which needs a comprehensive review. As far as the waste tax is concerned, we have so far allowed local authorities to spend their money on citizens. This procedure has caused a huge increase in the rates of duty for citizens in the individual municipalities, very often by 50, 60 and 70 percent. It is clear that Parliament cannot stand firm in the face of such events, which have provoked violent protests in the country by many categories. We have a duty to put a ceiling on the rates of the TARI, especially asking the municipalities that at the beginning of the year, no later than 28 February, inform citizenship through a decision of the city council of the amount of expenditure they intend to face in the year to be applied to the TARI. In conclusion, I confirm our favourable position on this decree, which we will reiterate in the explanation of vote, without reservation but with the request for further details which I have allowed myself to mention in this speech and which we will of course make more explicit in the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u74	The remaining speeches under general discussion will take place at the afternoon sitting, which will begin at 4.30 p.m. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting. Now, before the Conference of the Leaders convened at 1 p.m., let us move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u77	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to a serious and serious concern about the place where the Syrian chemical arsenal is inertized. The Danish ship "Ark Futura" carried out a first shipment of toxic agents in the Syrian port of Latakia. However, the mystery continues on which will be the first stage of one of the two ships. The OPAC, the organization for the monitoring of the ban on the use of chemical weapons that coordinates the operation, has explained that the ship "Taiko" will make route directly to England, but one of the two ships, the "Ark Future," must however carry its cargo in an Italian port. The Italian ports candidates are those of Augusta, in Sicily, and Santo Stefano, in Sardinia. During the summit held in Brussels last December it was stated that it would be a civil and non-military port. This hypothesis was then denied by the Farnesina who spoke only of a military port. In any case, we ask that the Government give clear answers on the actual transit of this ship and on what agreements there are for the storage of these very dangerous cargoes. I repeat: clear answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u80	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1 January 2014, and therefore for eight days now, our international missions have not had the necessary financial and consequently political coverage. I would like here to stigmatize this grave circumstance which has one sole responsibility: the Led Government. Unfortunately, in recent years we have been used to this ride, which I would like to call irresponsible: leaving our international missions uncovered. It already happened in October, it repeats itself today. Shame! In the light of the recent letter from the President of the Republic, which was read in this House on 28 December last, it would be reasonable to expect separate legislative measures for the financing of the so-called peace missions, the Ministry of Defence, and development cooperation, to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Instead, this legislative intervention will unfortunately be yet another decree-law with an urgent character, an urgency created, provoked and induced by the irresponsible inaction of the Government, to which was well known and clear for a long time the date of December 31, 2013 as the end of the coverage of the previous decree missions. It would have had to and could have proceeded in time, with a bill perhaps, to regulate the financing of missions and international cooperation. Allow me to suggest that this is still possible, using the means to speed up the legislative process that the Regulations of the two Houses also provide for, thus avoiding the urgent decree. I therefore call on the Presidency of the Senate to act and urge the Government to assume its responsibilities towards the thousands of our soldiers engaged abroad. Let us have the decency to avoid the footbridges in Herat (and here I am referring to Minister Alfano), when we have not fulfilled our duty here in Rome. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u81	Visits to our departments fall within the faculties and I would even say in the duties of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u84	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saccomanni, since I am lucky that you are still here, I would ask you to stay a few minutes to listen to me. This morning, Enrico Letta chirped, and seems to have put an end, with his morning chirping, to the story of the return of 150 euros received in 2013 by the teachers and deriving from the release of the shots. This measure seems to have been decided at a meeting between the President of the Council Enrico Letta, you, Minister Saccomanni, and the Minister of Education Maria Chiara Carrozza, to whom I hope you have apologized for that answer in that ironic tone, quite out of place. All is well what ends well. However, there are considerations to be made on this matter. In 2008, the blockage was introduced by the then Minister Tremonti. It is a block planned for the years 2010-2011-2012, later confirmed by Monti. Finally, in 2013 (since 2013 was not a year for the blockade), a regulatory vacuum is created. In the aftermath of the summer holidays, on 4 September, our President of the Republic, invigorated by the summer break, issued a decree that these provisions, i.e. the blockade, should continue throughout 2013. This causes the chaos we've seen. I ask myself: do you ministers communicate with each other? Do you talk? Do you meet? Are you giving rise to strategies? Otherwise, what do you do when you meet? This lack of coordination and communication, this mess, once again risked spilling over onto the citizens' shoulders. Then, I recommend more attention, more responsibility and more memory: the memory that reminds us that every decision we make and every action we take has an impact on the community. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u87	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, the framework in which I put my speech at the end of the sitting is the same as my colleague, Mr Montevecchi. But on this picture, which would be the truly dramatic situation in which we live every day (i.e. the prediction that 90,000 teachers will have to return from 900 to 2,000 euro gross to a government that had frozen them), we find a framework made of gestures, which are also symbolic, ethical and opportune. For example, we know and are aware that the gesture to return half of our salary or our expenses reimbursements, or even the act due to renounce electoral refunds is a gesture above all symbolic, which is not for itself in the substantial value, but in the value of representation, and ethical, in the sense of lawful, and opportune, which means that it is suitable for the circumstances of the moment. On this point I would like to make you think and ask if you all think that Letta's gesture to change chairs and curtains in her office is symbolic, ethical and opportune, for the amount of 24,000 euros, plus 8,000 euros, for a total of 32,000 euros, while the teachers, who had to have that money, are asked to return 150 euros per month. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u90	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, the first question I would like to ask is 3-00572, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The Ferrovie dello Stato at the time had assigned the toll booths in disuse to capistazione, drivers and capitreno in order to guarantee the availability after hours. The assignees have made their homes worthy, taking on considerable expenses, renovating the buildings, spending a lot of money and paying a rent at fair rent. Ferservizi, which manages the real estate of the Italian Railway Network (RFI), sent to the assigners a recommended eviction from 31 December last, as the houses should stay at least 4,5 meters away from the tracks and the houses in question would instead be too close. Actually, the safe distance would be 30 meters. The tenants of the toll booths - 432 families throughout Italy - will therefore be considered abusive from 1 January 2014, although at the time they were reassured that they could stay there forever and that, following this reassurance, they have contracted loans and incurred substantial restructuring costs. In the letters of eviction the municipalities are indicated as subjects that should solve the problem, finding another accommodation in the boxes, but, with the emergency housing and the lack of funds they have, it seems really unlikely. The question asks what measures the Minister of Transport intends to take to prevent Ferservizi from completing the initiative, which would mean putting these families on the road. The other question I would like to ask is the act 4-00493 to the Minister of Education, University and Research on the facts and the dark behavior of a school manager who has worked in various schools in Tuscany and to whom many negative reports have been made by teaching staff, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff, students and citizens who have promoted collections of signatures that require their removal. Public education inspectors have discovered that the school manager is responsible for a EUR 63,794. It is asked to know what urgent measures the Minister intends to take to ensure that the regional school office is made clear and that the inspection process is completed and its outcome communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-161.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.02 p.m.
