ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00632 on the revision of the discipline in the matter of access to the careers of the State Police. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u4	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Di Biagio asks the Government that the recruitment reserve of 1,000 units, foreseen for the State Police by the Stability Act for 2014, be used for the enlistment of suitables to be absorbed among the rankings of volunteers in firm four-year of previous competitions. The recruitment in the initial careers of the Police Forces is expressly governed by the code of the military order, recently revised through the legislative decree n. 8 of January 2014, which establishes that until 31 December 2015 the places put in competition annually, determined on the basis of a five-year programming prepared by each of the administrations concerned and transmitted to the Ministry of Defence, are reserved to volunteers in fixed stop of one year or four years, or in annual stamina. With regard to competitors judged fit and usefully placed in the rankings, 55 percent, which represents the minimum percentage of candidates, is appointed student agent of the State Police and admitted directly to the frequency of the prescribed training course, once completed the fixed stop of one year, while the remaining 45 percent, which represents the maximum percentage of candidates, is appointed student agent only after having served in the armed forces in fixed four-year stop. The final ranking remains open until the beginning of the police courses for VFP1, since, in the time between the end of the competition and the start of the training, some competitors may renounce the enrollment or lose the requisites. In those circumstances, candidates classified as first-placers for the four-year break automatically advance in the first rate and the first eligible non-victors take their place in the VFP4. From that moment, according to current legislation, members of the so-called second rate cannot be placed in the roles of the State Police before the completion of the four-year voluntary service at the Defense. Therefore, the only hypothesis of transit of a competitor from VFP4 to VFP1, with immediate start to training at the State Police Education Institutes, is within the same competition by scrolling the relative ranking. VFP1 enlisted in a subsequent competition will be in service in the State Police long before the military of the second VFP4 rates of previous competitions. This cannot be considered discriminatory or unlawful, since there is a need to ban new selective procedures in the light of the specific sector legislation, which requires a precise periodic frequency of the competition, also and especially for the needs of the Defence Administration, against the suspension of the mandatory lever. With the approval of the two legislative decrees implementing the law 31 December 2012, n. 244, which took place at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 10 January last, has begun the process of revision of the national military instrument that will lead to its rationalization in a reductive key, with the contraction of the recruitments regarding the modules of power provided by the current dispositions. In this legal framework, therefore, the Government is now committed to carrying out a serious and in-depth reflection on the discipline of access to the roles of the State Police aimed at remedying the dysfunctions determined by the use of enlistment through the Defense.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u7	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr Vice-Minister, I have been engaged in this matter for years and I have always appreciated the attention you have shown, but despite the commitments made by the governments, I must say that nothing or really little has changed. However, I would like to remind this House who these second rate boys are: they are contest winners in the State Police, but they fall within the logic of the second rate of the winners' rankings, not directly eligible in the roles for which they have won the competition. In the meantime, these boys, according to the aforementioned law, should spend a period of four years in the Army, being trained for something they have not asked to do (I would like to remind you that among the Italian military victims in Afghanistan there are some young people who are considered second rates), being framed as precarious of the Defense in all respects, with low remuneration and exposed to risks and operating circumstances different from those they chose when they intended to make a competition in the Police. Let's also put the fact that these guys are not immediately called into the Army to play the transitional role (an additional mockery) and often between the competition in the Police and the transit in the Army spends some time objectively. Morale della favola: guys who make the competition at 20-22 years old find themselves, perhaps, entering the Police at 30-32 years old, with obvious consequences in terms of operational dynamism, at a time when the security needs in our country grow exponentially. To these aspects we also add that in a recent speech the Minister of the Interior has highlighted the need to unlock the turnover of the Forces of the Order, for the new assumptions for the Expo 2015, as a consequence of the signing of the protocol "Expo Milano 2015 Mafia Free", an excellent coincidence I would add. The optimal thing would have been to integrate into the State Police the boys of the second rates that, having already supported a competition, could be immediately operational, all this drawing from the resources provided by the law of stability 2014 that provides an assumption reserve of 1,000 units, that is to say the exact number of the children of the second rates. In this scenario, which seems quite functional to the parliamentary bodies and ultimately to a commitment of the Government in the context of the extension of international missions, we get a voice of yet another new competition and this is even more paradoxical: we continue in this logic of long expectations and endless ranks. The ban should come out tomorrow and includes 650 seats. Let's keep this up. If it were actually confirmed that all the boys would be hired at first rate, it would certainly be a good thing, but it does not represent the solution to the problem, also because, with a new competition, it was preferred to choose the simplest and certainly the most expensive way. Added to this is the fact that, since no legislative change has taken place in the meantime, we imagine that tomorrow's ban will simply be a derogation, so the problem of the winners of previous competitions remains, some of which are virtually non-operational. And there remains the problem of ordinary law that at the moment does not appear to have been modified. We ask ourselves further: how can the new winners be operational for Expo 2015, Deputy Minister? They should start the course of student agents, so the technical times don't seem to be there at all. This, in my opinion, is to be considered a mirror for the lark. Mr Vice-Minister, we would therefore like to see an answer given to this doubt which does not seem to be filled by your answer. Let it be clear: it is not intended to compromise the right of other young people to access a dream, such as that of working for the police, which for many of them represents a respectable vocation; but it is considered indispensable to respect the so-called order of acquired rights: to allow those who, by reason of the overcoming of a competition, have the priority to be included in the roles, through the creation of a sort of category when security operators are exhausted. It is only afterward that new competitions take place, but in a modified legislative scenario, which removes the category of second rates. Mr. Deputy Minister, I cannot hide your regret for this new competition, because it seems to bypass the speeches and comparisons that have been made between the institutions so far. I hope - appealing to your attention - that there will soon be a new opportunity for discussion, perhaps within the framework of a technical table, which will lead to the overcoming of all the critical points that I have just listed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u8	The following are questions 3-00705 and 3-00807 (already 4-01663) on the return to service of police officers convicted of the murder of Federico Aldrovandi in 2005. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u9	Mr President, as you have already announced, I reply jointly to the two questions relating to the events connected with the death of the young Federico Aldrovandi, with particular reference to the disciplinary and erorial implications of the police officers involved. As is well known, the criminal proceedings initiated following the death of Federico Aldrovandi, which took place in Ferrara on 25 September 2005, were finally concluded with the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 21 June 2012. The Supreme Court sentenced - for the crime of manslaughter for manslaughter over manslaughter - the four employees of the State Police, mentioned in the act of inspection union, to the sentence of three years and six months of imprisonment, reduced to six months as a result of indult. Subsequently, the supervisory court of Bologna, with measures taken in January and February 2013, in rejecting the requests made by the lawyers of the agents - aimed at obtaining the custody in trial to the social services or, alternatively, the measure of the house detention - ordered the detention for the remainder of the sentence of six months. At the outcome of the final sentence, the subsequent disciplinary proceedings were initiated, concluded on January 3, 2013, with a decision of the Head of Police that imposed the sanction of suspension from the service for the duration of six months, in adherence to what is proposed by the respective provincial councils of discipline. The above-mentioned fora have acted on the basis of the determination of criminal facts and responsibilities as rebuilt in the irrevocable sentence. Therefore, in view of the non-delusive nature of the conduct, the disciplinary sanction of the suspension from the service was considered to be appropriate compared to the most serious of the dismissal. In particular, the infringements contested appeared to be attributable to the regulatory discipline - contained in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 737 of 1981 - concerning cases of negligence in service of particular gravity and conduct not in conformity with the decorum of the functions of the members of the roles of the public security administration. Regarding the current assignments of the agents, I recall that three have been transferred, for reasons of opportunity and environmental incompatibility, following the sentence of first instance issued by the court of Ferrara; while the assistant chief Monica Segatto had already been transferred to application before the judgment. With regard to the current offices of service of the aforementioned police officers, it is specified that the superintendent Paolo Forlani serves at the border police sector of Tarvisio, the assistant chief Enzo Pontani and Monica Segatto, respectively, at the police station and the maritime-airport of Venice, while the assistant chief Luca Pollastri has resumed service at the police station of Vicenza, carrying out all administrative tasks, for which they have no contact with the public. In any case, the Administration will work to ensure that their compatibility with the functions assigned in relation to the fitness judgement is continuously verified. With regard to the compensation profiles related to the case, the Ministry of the Interior, after having obtained the favorable opinion of the District Vetting of the State of Bologna for a transaction with the relatives of the young deceased entitled to compensation, has concluded with the interested parties a special agreement. On 9 December 2010, moreover, the Regional Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors for Emilia-Romagna was given the comments due in accordance with the rules requiring the reporting of facts that involve liability for damage to the treasury. In this regard, the regional prosecutor of the Court has formalized against the four police officers sentenced for the death of the young Aldrovandi the dispute for erarial damage quantified in approximately 1,800,000 euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u12	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I thank the Deputy Minister. The answer he gave is certainly unappellable from the point of view of the application of the regulations that today regulate the disciplinary matter relating to police officers. However, it does not deal with a real and proven lack of adequate rules for the definition of the penalty in the face of the alleged case of manslaughter, which the judges have had to weigh down with the specification of "excessive manslaughter," because in fact there does not exist in our order, to date, a crime that is commensurate with the violence claimed by the young Federico. I think it was important to have had the sensitivity at least to imagine the transfer of agents from the city that suffered a truly important trauma from this affair, which lasted eight years and which still today makes the community claim an additional need for justice, which has not been proportional to the crime committed against Federico. Surely the transfer will help the pacification, but it is not adequate, even with respect to the emergence, in the course of this crime, of a doubt of the compatibility of these people with the role and figure of public security agents. We, not later than 15 days ago, in this House, have debated so much about the legislative vacuum that exists in our code regarding the recognition and introduction, after thirty years, of the torture crime: if it had been included at the time we had signed this commitment as a country within the New York Convention, we would probably not be here today to discuss the consequences of the crime. Unfortunately, this vacuum also renders the disciplinary regulation inadequate, which absolutely undermines the identification that citizens must continue to have with regard to those who are the highest representatives of the defence of their security. It is precisely on behalf of the vast majority of police officers that every day, poorly paid, risk their lives, it is in the respect of these figures that they sacrifice themselves every day for the citizens, it is when their honour is questioned, as in cases of this type, for the inability to commit crimes against those who commit such violence of proportionate penalties, that I believe it is also difficult to be satisfied with the yet articulate response of the Deputy Minister today in this House. [[Applause from Senators Manconi and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u15	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, we would like to thank you for your reply, which, however, is not at all satisfactory, except marginally, for removing these people from contact with the public. I believe that the only possible mitigating factor in the decision you have made is that they are no longer in contact with people. In fact, these people have shown themselves not to be police officers; they have demonstrated this not only by actions but also by words. Let's remember what was reported in the minutes, the severity of the spoken sentences, like: We've beaten him hard, or... "Let's get out of here that there's light, they can see us." I believe that this had to be recognised as a serious moral fact, before it was criminal. In addition, the IV Criminal Section of the Supreme Court ruled that the defendants would have distorted data relevant for the following development of the investigations since the first hours after that killing, which was a beating. So I think they really had to be destitute in front of this. I would point out that Article 70 (6) of Law No 121 of 1 April 1981 provides for the removal of deficiencies the seriousness of which is determined by the species or by the recurrence of behaviour contrary to the duties and requirements of the police service. As Mrs Bertuzzi said, in reality these decisions to suspend, after reducing the sentence from three years and six months to only six months and even allowing house arrests for the effects of the law emptied prisons to those who had uttered words that have nothing to do with the service of the order, I believe that they really are an affront to the family, to the community, but also to the same institution Police, because being service of the order can never, under any circumstances, become a power used to hurt or even kill. Having to stop someone, as Senator Giovanardi said, and blocking those in a state of aggression is quite different from kicking and punching and acting with anger and without control. It's a very different thing. I repeat: I believe that this has not been fully recognised in what is the decision that you have come to communicate to us. I conclude by saying that there is all of Italy asking these people to take off the uniform they dishonor. Even the whole world does, because a group has been created - "Vialadivisa" - to which they have joined from all over the world: "People for #Vialadivisa". As other ministers have been able to give up their role, Mr Vice-Minister, recognizing that they are not welcome, I, apart from your words, invite the same agents to remove that uniform. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u16	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u17	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-03-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-209.ana.u18	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 18 March, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.31 a.m.
