ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00328 (text 3), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other senators, 1-00344, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, 1-00349, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators, 1-00351, presented by Senator Petraglia and other senators, and 1-00355, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, on policies for childhood and adolescence.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u7	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the various motions presented have allowed us to deal with a number of very serious issues on yesterday's agenda, relating to childhood and adolescence, which unfortunately are not addressed in our way of lawmaking and intervention. Addressing these issues has also enabled us to stress the problem of poverty in our country, which afflicts the population of adolescents and children, a reality that is becoming increasingly dramatic in Italy. So our motion has tried not only to make an analysis of the situation, but to ask the government for a series of precise commitments. This also concerns other motions. However, the problem on which we should examine ourselves - and I say this also as a Parent Company - when we place the debate on certain motions on the agenda is that all this cannot be transformed into a good debate in which we express good thoughts if, in the rewordings that the Government proposes to us, the commitments become absolutely vague. We have had experience of motions with very precise commitments which, however, have not been followed up on the measures. When we transform the motions by introducing very vague commitments, it remains the bitter in the mouth of those who have tried to start a serious debate - which always means having the ability to assume responsibilities - but who risk becoming pure rhetoric if they do not then follow specific commitments. For a kind of spirit of resignation or something else, we welcome all the rewordings that the Government has proposed regarding motion 351 (although there are fairly general commitments), with the exception of the one referred to in point 1) of the operative part. In this reformulation, the Government wants at all costs to refer to the jobs act, in terms of promoting active policies and effective measures to support the reconciliation of time between motherhood and work. So we accept - I repeat - the other rewordings, but we ask that point 1 be put to the vote. As far as the other motions are concerned, we are voting in favour, although we stress the same problem as our motion, namely that all the rewordings have introduced general commitments, and I do not know whether they have been accepted by the other groups. In any case, I repeat, our assessment would still have led to a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u10	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity, but a right. Like slavery and apartheid, poverty is not a natural fact: it is created by man and must be overcome and eradicated by the effective actions of human beings. This is something that is still missing in this House. It has been fought for millennia to eliminate hunger, disease, the squalor of ignorance, but today it seems that the struggle and commitment to change must be just an announcement on Twitter, a promise launched in the wind of the irreparable. Yet, we have the skills and skills to eliminate absolute poverty, extreme inequality. Italy can afford to offer all families to live with dignity in a social state of law. Yes! If you allow it, only if you introduce citizenship income into our social system, which would be the general tool for combating poverty. In this regard, I would like to point out that on the occasion of the meeting that the 5 Star Movement had with some representatives of the Government of Ecuador, they expressed their concern about what is happening to the Ecuadorian families living in Italy. In particular, with regard to many cases of expulsion of Ecuadorian children, decided by the courts for minors at the request of social services, it has been pointed out that, among the reasons justifying such measures, there is that of poverty proclaimed and often explained in the difficulty for parents-workers also to go to school to take their children or in the difficulty of providing children with stationery tools like the luckiest classmates. Remember that for some parents notebooks, pencils and colors are objects that they cannot buy to their children. From the words of the Minister of Ecuador there was a certain disappointment, an indescribable bitterness that he tried to discover that many of his compatriots, driven by the idea of making fortune in a state like ours, found themselves at the center of the economic crisis that caused them to sink into a poverty of not indifferent scale. I would like to point out that describing a complex and multidimensional phenomenon such as poverty is certainly difficult, precisely because it calls into question a multiplicity of factors, such as housing conditions, health, food, educational and service provision, family and community relations. Analyzing poverty with the exclusive help of consumption and income indicators is like trying to paint a crowded beach looking through the hole of a lock with sunglasses. All the more so, when the survey examines the poverty of children through the study of the economic value of their families' consumption, the study and the percentage of analysis appear inadequate, they are lost in a thousand variables of which you elected, here, have no idea in any way, and you prove it not to act with positive and concrete measures. We all know that the degree of investment and disinvestment on children inevitably varies from context to context, but certainly all families, even those with low levels of spending, would always want to devote their scarce resources to the care, development and growth of their children. It's natural. I have seen mothers demean themselves to self-denial, in order to allow themselves to accompany their children to school, in order to allow them to have a schoolboy's dignity. And we, as institutions, have a duty to listen to the appeal that comes from families, but we don't have time. We are taken by serious and burdensome budgetary draws that the fiscal compact imposes on us! Many studies of the psychology of the evolutionary age and economy have already long reported that, from the second year of age, the socio-economic context within which one grows, significantly affects the range and type of opportunities available to children and increases the risk of falling behind from an intellectual point of view. Poverty produces early wounds in cognitive development, which are likely to remain visible throughout their lives. Speaking of wounds, I would like to point out a problem related to poverty and on which the Guarantor for Children and Adolescence of the Calabria Region has been eager to raise the alarm. In Calabria, despite the indication on the site of the individual provincial health companies, there is a lack of a department of child neuropsychiatry, as well as a structure for minors with health value. Which means that a Calabrian child with neuropsychiatric discomforts in case of urgency must necessarily be transferred to the hospital in Messina or Naples! Now, you understand well that a disadvantaged family cannot move to another region, as this certainly involves expenses that it will not be able to bear. Is it possible that the Ministry of Health did not have any reports on this? We have pointed out this by raising the problem with a question which, as usual, has remained unanswered. I would like to remind you that 27.4% of families living in Calabria have, in fact, exceeded the threshold of relative poverty. The average income difference between the wealthiest and the poorest is 1 to 5.5, which translated means that to every euro of a family among the poorest, they correspond 5.5 euros in a rich family. Or do we have to assume that some families, in order to earn some money, would come to terms commercializing the images of their youngest children? As Mr Moronese pointed out with a question with which he spokesperson for an appeal made by some local committees, concerning the business choices of the Igea Diagnostic and Polyspecialistic Center of Sant'Antimo, in the province of Naples, which I invite you to read and share its content. Meanwhile, we would like to avoid the danger that within the advertising campaigns of this Centre, which promotes the services offered through the use of images of minors lying on the beds of the magnetic resonance, there is no underlying speculative attitude or even less offensive of human sensitivity. On the other hand, we are now presenting motion No. 349, which has been accepted by the Government with unacceptable rewordings for us, at least as far as points 3 and 4 are concerned, since they empty it of any real meaning. We cannot continue to suppose that we can proceed with force and active commitment to the solution of the eradication of child poverty with charity. We must act with serious commitments, with proposals for legislation of serious labour policy, consistent with the social hardship and fragility that we have in Italy. With proposals and with the implementation of concrete measures for the attention and protection of the family, children and life. In your rewordings, Madam Undersecretary, there are indications of income support that are uncovered in the Stability Act. There is no explanation in the draft law on labour delegation, which is also linked to the law of stability, or within the law of stability itself. On the contrary, the hypothetical appropriations to support anti-poverty measures have been cut by EUR 100 million and the fund for childhood and adolescence has been halved. We are ready to enter into the matter to create real measures to combat poverty and active inclusion of Italian citizens in the social and working life of the country, measures such as the income of citizenship, which is not an experimental shopping card, as you want to introduce, but an effective contribution to income to make the citizen autonomous and dignitary of social life, and not a tip of welfare charity. The government stops giving false hopes, allocates the necessary resources. Even the majority stop presenting motions that will have no follow-up in the facts and stop selling smoke. Our country is dying under the enormous and overwhelming weight of non-work, early school leaving, and you do not have the courage to implement real reforms! Our work will not be thrown into the nettles. We will propose new commitments and we will fight for proposals for changes that break this chain of inadequacy. We call for motions to be voted for separately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u13	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with here is central to the implications that it determines and not only in terms of those more palpable, evident and important aspects that have emerged also in the course of the timely and precise reconstruction carried out in the interventions carried out. It has deeper implications, perhaps less explored, less known, marginalized if not forgotten, which are ethical in nature and perhaps, even, anthropological, which concern the principles of social cohesion and the holding of our society around milestones, milestones, what we call "value patrimony." We must therefore avoid the risk that the work carried out by all political forces will be handed over to the rhetorical chapter and the idle exercise of a demagogy that stifles politics and renders it incapable of giving an adequate response of a prospective type. Of course, we are all aware that the country is experiencing a situation of very serious economic difficulty, but we are also aware that we have to go a long way to recover those principles, also of normative type, that take away the civilization and democracy of our country at the risk of slipping towards very serious forms of intergenerational conflicts written in nuce in inequality that is determined also through the state of poverty of families, minors and adolescents who in those families risk seeing the same rights to existence vulnerate. The problem of early school leaving and the profiles of the consequences in terms of health protection have been mentioned; we have recalled the need to gain the income condition as a prerequisite for a civil, serene life, but perhaps we have forgotten the greatest tragedy: the risk of abandoning parenthood. When a family is in a state of poverty, it risks even having to lose the most precious patrimony it has created, i.e. its children. Then, the abandonment of parenthood is the sacrilege that politics must be able to counter. Of course, there are the problems of the crisis, the problems associated with the insufficient presence of economic resources, but how can we fail to remember that demographic variables are an essential part of the issue we are dealing with today? How can we forget that if we do not support the family we do not support the birth rate? And if we do not support the birth rate, we will have an increasingly old society with a relationship between the elderly and young people that vulnerates the principle of cohesion because substantially the tax revenues of the productive personalities risk being absolutely inadequate and insufficient because the personal composition of our society has changed profoundly. Children today increasingly do not represent an investment element for an evolved society. Today they are a problem. One is born less because families are formed late and bring to the world fewer children in the awareness of the difficulties that exist. The work we have done today, therefore, must not be lost. We must avoid handing over today's work to a rhetorical exercise. Rather, we must frame it in the sacredness of a commitment that the Government must make knowing that all the commitments that have been requested by the various political forces need economic support. Otherwise we have only listed a series of wishes, wishes, proposals, intentions and nothing more. There is a need for governance in this area and for there to be a minimum economic endowment that tries to counter the inexorable advance of these dramatic problems that cause a mortification of our social organisation. We have accepted, as a political force, the formulations that the Government has proposed for the commitments contained in the device of our motion and we express an act of trust in the Government, which we place in the conscience of those who have the reins of the Government of this country. Therefore we announce our vote in favour, but, of course, within it is contained - if you will allow me - with all respect and humility, the whip on the conscience of a government that must abandon the line of announcement and recover the principles of responsibility. In fact, faced with issues and questions of this kind, as punctually emerged in the reconstruction of all political forces, there is the real unresolved problem of society of our times: a society that does not invest in young people and in the protection of children and that does not devote the appropriate economic resources, is a society destined to die in itself. We don't want that, and we hope the government doesn't want that either. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u16	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government and ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are about to vote on is intended to recall the adoption, 25 years ago, of the International Convention for the Rights of the Child and Adolescence, which we have just celebrated on 20 November. The Convention has become the human rights treaty with the greatest number of ratifications by States and, to date, 193 States are members of the Convention. Although 23 years have passed since the Italian ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence, the policies dedicated by our country have struggled, in recent years, to find space and listening. I would like to recall how, at the end of 2011, after examining the third periodic report presented by the Italian Government, the UN Committee addressed to our country more than 50 recommendations to combat child poverty, discrimination, territorial disparities and school dispersal and to improve the living conditions of unaccompanied foreign minors. Italy is in fact at the last places in Europe in the main indicators relating to well-being and children's rights. I do not want to remind you of the numbers, because they did so yesterday, in the debate in this House, virtually all the speeches. These are dramatic figures on relative and absolute poverty data, on school dispersal (which we have to halve by 2020) and on the structural lack of kindergartens and school services, in order to be able to really combat the inequalities of departure. In addition to income poverty, I am very impressed by the data presented by many non-governmental associations on the educational poverty of our children and adolescents. Over the past 12 months, 39.5 percent of children have never read a book; 33 percent have never used a computer; 19.8 percent have never gone to see a movie at the cinema; 26.2 percent never practice sports. These children and teenagers are in danger of really being the new poor of tomorrow, mortgageing their future today. We must support educational needs and it is necessary to develop - as the motions of the Democratic Party and others rightly said - a new welfare system for children, a Community intervention focused on territoriality and the activation of a mix of public and private non-profit resources. They are also educational resources already present on the territory, but often scattered not on the network between them and, consequently, not able to express all their potential. That is why we need a White Paper. We are in the middle of the European Semester. So, if Europe is not just prescriptive rules and quirks, it is the common destiny of our children; if it is a community of values, it serves more school, more education, more European student mobility. Above all, if education is the fundamental lever for growth, inclusion, equality and freedom, as well as one of the founding values of the European Union, it cannot be seen as one of the costs and constraints of the Stability Pact to be respected. Just the day before yesterday, Pope Francis in Strasbourg asked the European Parliament and the Commission to work by restoring hope to the citizens. He urged the European institutions to take care of the fragility of peoples and people; he urged us to work for Europe to rediscover its good soul and repeatedly called on the political class in its speeches not to be indifferent. Contrary to what Senator De Petris says, this Government is not indifferent to the needs of the younger generations. After years of cuts, in this law of stability we return resources to the public school for the fight against school dispersal, the opening of schools in the afternoon, ensuring to the schools the teachers who serve to make the students reach their educational and school success. We give a billion for next year and 3 billion since 2016 as an investment; we offer families with medium-low incomes, in a structural way, 80 euros as an IRPEF cut directly into paychecks (it is being received 11 million Italians) and a baby bonus that the Stability Act provides as an incentive to the birth rate and as a contribution to the expenses for its support. Moreover, a cheque of 960 euros, which will receive households with an income of less than 90,000 euros (a roof that does not apply to large families). I would also remind you that last year, again in this House, we debated a similar motion on child poverty and, as we asked at the time, this Government, the Renzi Government, after the National Conference on Childhood and Adolescence in Bari last March, on 23 July installed the renewed observatory for childhood and adolescence - I would like to thank the Undersecretary Biondelli for the work she is doing - along with NGOs and national associations. As we asked for in the motion, the Government is implementing, together with the associations, the National Plan of Action: a plan that should be defined every two years - this is the commitment - and that instead has not been renewed from 2004 to 2010, while the last one covered the biennium 2009-2011. This plan should promote the strengthening and coordination of actions carried out by public administrations, regions and local authorities. The priorities found together with associationism and local authorities are the fight against the poverty of children and families, the development of socio-educational services for early childhood, the inclusion of foreign children, second generations, unaccompanied minors, support for parenthood and its strengthening: therefore, not generic issues, but precise commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for us to do things. In this legislature, in which we have undertaken in a cross-cutting way the commitment and responsibility to get the country out of the crisis, this Government has a duty to change this state of affairs; in this legislature - let us also acknowledge this - we are working in the Chamber of this Senate on important legislative proposals that we have been waiting for for many years. I am thinking of the bill - which we hope will come to the House - which has already passed the scrutiny of the Justice Commission, on the emotional continuity of children in foster care; the bill on the integrated education and education system 0-6 years, which is in the 7th Commission in the Senate, the one on cyberbullying, in the 1st Commission, and important legislative initiatives on the education of boys and girls to respect differences. Here, we are making a revolution, step by step, in asserting strongly that in the time of the crisis ours are the priorities of the good families, and in the good families, in the time of the crisis, we look at what is in your pocket and then, first of all, we think of the little ones and the weakest. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u17	We greet the delegation of the Order of Chemists of Veneto and a representation of students of the faculty of jurisprudence of the University LUMSA of Rome today present in the Hall. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to take your seats. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda (text 2) will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 328 (text 4). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 328 (text 4), tabled by Senator Mattesini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 344 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 344 (text 2), tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 349 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u21	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for a separate vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u22	Senator Stefani, Senator Bertorotta has already requested a split vote. In particular, with respect to the first part of the motion, which includes the premises and points 1) and 2) of the disposition part, the rewording proposed by the Government was accepted. For the second part, that is points 3) and 4) of the device, the proposers of the motion did not accept the rewording indicated by the government. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of motion No 349 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1) and 2) of the motion No 349 (text 2), tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining part of motion No 349 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 3) and 4) of motion No 349 (text 2), tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 351 (text 2). I remember Senator De Petris asking for a split vote. The Presidency clarifies that the first part, on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, includes the premises and points (2) to (12) of the device, as reworded according to the Government's instructions. The second part of the motion includes point 1) of the device, on which the rewording of the Government has not been accepted and on which therefore there is the contrary opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u25	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to vote for separate parts of this motion by voting separately on point 8 of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u26	Senator Stefani, on point 8) was welcomed by the proposers the rewording proposed by the Government. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Even if it is reworded, I still ask that we be able to vote on it separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is not possible, Senator, being related to the rest of the motion and having been accepted the rewording proposed Government. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of motion No 351 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points (2) to (12) of motion 351 (text 2) tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the remainder of motion No 351 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 1) of motion 351 (text 2), tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 355 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 355 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u29	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, before I turn to a new item on the agenda, may I disturb the House only because of the sensitivity of the matter. In reading the schedule of next week's work, I note that for Thursday 4 December the discussion of the bill on the return of capital held abroad and self-recycling, where concluded by the Commissions, has been scheduled. On this point, Madam President, I would like to say the following. With regard to this draft law, the deadline for amendments expires at 12 noon on 1 December. As the subject governed by Articles 39, 40 and 41 of the Rules of Procedure, according to which institution it wishes to apply in an analogue way, the Commissions are not able to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure before 9 December at 12 o'clock, if Article 41, paragraph 5, or before 16 December at 12 o'clock, should Article 39 apply. This is clearly the case where the Commissions concerned, which are the 1st and the 5th, did not give their opinion. In other words, in the absence of the opinion of the Commissions concerned, the only activity that the Commissions can carry out in relation to these draft laws is that of explaining the amendments. It follows that the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 1 December and the need to forward these amendments to the Commission make it highly unlikely that the work of the Commissions will be completed on 4 December. Madam President, precisely because of the delicacy of the matter and, I believe from 8 December, the budgetary session at which, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no activity on the part of the Commission, except that strictly related to the law of stability, I would add that, if you wish to speed up the process of these draft laws, the only possibility that the Rules of Procedure allow for voting in the budgetary session is that provided for in the last paragraph of Rule 126, with a decision which, as you know, is not entrusted to the determinations of the Presidents of the Commissions, but to the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u30	Thank you, President Palma. The Offices will send your report to the Presidency. In any case, I would remind you that, not by chance, a safeguard clause has been included in the Conference of the Leaders: it is said, in fact, where concluded by the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00246, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, 1-00248, tabled by Senator Palermo and other senators, 1-00299 (text 2), tabled by Senator Berger and other senators, 1-00321, presented by Senator Pagliari and other senators, 1-00350, presented by Senator Molinari and other senators, and 1-00353 (text 2), presented by Senator Bignami and other senators, on the dissemination of electronic payment systems. I call Senator Candiani to explain motion 246. [[Brusio.]] In the meantime, I would ask my colleagues in front of Senator Candiani to allow his colleague to speak without disturbing. Then I would invite everyone to lower their voices. Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President. On 23 April this year, the Lega Nord Group tabled a motion on a subject that has been widely shared within the Senate and of which we are now discussing with other parliamentary groups. The theme is very simple, as well as very subtlely inserted and installed in our daily lives. We know that for a long time now the government has imposed a ban on cash transactions for figures over 1,000 euros and that this has obviously pushed our market and all citizens to use credit cards or debit cards. In many cases - I am thinking of people who are less careful or those who do not usually control the costs of these financial products - this has led to significant increases in costs vis-à-vis users rather than operators and beneficiaries of these transactions. The problem, then, is not a small one. While it is true that at the legal level in Italy it is forbidden to introduce cost increases for those who use electronic money rather than the banknote, it is equally true that these costs come then to distribute themselves on the purchased product, therefore going to harm both the commercial activity and the ability to purchase citizens, to the sole advantage of a financial market - that of the banks - that uses the systems of credit cards not with the aim of traceability of the payments previewed from the legislator, but only in order to be able to have a comfortable and new opportunities of control of the credit institutions on the use of the cash from our citizens. We therefore make a reflection, which we submit to the Government. Other Member States have already addressed this problem at European level. We are assuming that there is certainly a lack of uniformity at European level: in Germany, for example, there is no limit on the use of cash, Mr President. However, there are rules that impose on managers, banks and financial companies that issue credit and debit cards of the limits, which on average are around 0.2% on costs. In Italy we know that these limits are abundantly exceeded, with cases that even come at a cost of 1-1.5%, really unbearable to the citizens who today use, essentially automatically, debit and credit cards. We therefore call on the Government to make clear commitments on this issue, in order to implement any measures necessary to achieve the reduction of fees, costs and charges imposed on traders and consumers who make use of the use of electronic money (whether debit or credit card) in transactions of more than one thousand euros and the cancellation of any commission or cost or fee for transactions of less than one thousand euros. We also call on the Government to increase transparency on the part of the financial operators of the electronic money segment towards consumers, by promoting competition between market operators and, therefore, by protecting and defending citizens who can and must have a clear opportunity to choose conditions to their advantage and favorable. Madam President, the situation may seem secondary, except that today too often one neglects that it is finance that governs our daily lives. The hope would be to live in a country where the limit of the thousand euros was not due to the need to draw payments, as the government tells us. Let's look at Germany, where citizens are free to spend their profits and savings in a current way, using the oldest transaction system, that of cash. In our country there are circumstances that have encouraged and made it easier to set up the use of electronic cards, because clearly the excuse is always that - and it is also easy to justify - of tax evasion. We are sure that there must be control and strong action in the fight against tax evasion, but we think that this cannot go to burden with costs or commissions, neither directly, nor indirectly, the citizen and certainly not the honest traders and traders, who already paying taxes, even if their transactions were made in cash, are instead obliged to use the POS and means of credit and debit cards, which eventually produce a cost that, even indirectly, goes to vent to the final consumer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u33	I call Senator Palermo to explain motion 248.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u34	Madam President, I should like to speak briefly, because there are some recurring issues. Motion No 248 tends to set out in the simplest and most purposeful way possible a complex issue which we rightly and fortunately begin to deal with. It is indisputable that the future is that of electronic transactions. It seems to me out of the question: all the motions talk about it, recognize it, provide forms of incentive, reducing the costs for payment with POS or credit card. Better late than never: compared to other countries we are late, and it is good that we are active on this front. What distinguishes this motion from the others? Firstly, it is a little more complex and complex, it goes into more detail than others and tries to tackle the issue in a holistic way, based on studies and in-depth studies, and it can - I hope - be the basis for a comprehensive policy that addresses a undoubtedly complex but urgent issue. Secondly, it aims to resolve a number of issues, perhaps more than others. The first is, of course, tax evasion. I agree with what Senator Candiani said: we have a country that gets caught up in the savings cents and then we have a tax evasion equal to I don't know how many financial maneuvers per year. We must try to find a solution to this. The motion does so above all from a promotional perspective, oriented towards the future, trying to get out of the repressive logic, also concerning the issue of the roof for the use of cash: one thousand euros constitute a mistake, two thousand euros a double error, three thousand euros a triple error, if we want to see it in this logic. On the other hand, we must encourage the forms of electronic payment that then, as a result, have greater traceability, but we must do so using incentive, persuasion, good arguments rather than the impositions that may not be easily implemented. Above all, the motion seeks to educate in the incentive of the use of electronic payments, which is also a cultural fact. It is always said that we are not ready, especially the elderly; many countries have started before and are now ready. It is clear that it is a long process, but in Estonia there are elderly people who pay with contactless technology without any problem, so I do not understand why ours should be more stupid than others. There is another important issue that is overlooked: security. Turning cash in your pocket, especially for old ladies who can be snatched in the street, is not a big security demonstration, not counting the money kept at home. We try to make concrete proposals, including the distribution and the incentive of the use of the POS, as they do all the other motions, reducing the costs of management (this is possible), also providing forms of free convenient with regard to payment instruments (the POS), as well as with modems for ADSL, providing reward forms for users, for those who use the POS, for operators, reducing the commissions to increase the number of electronic payments; with tax facilities for those who equip themselves with the equipment, with information campaigns, with the use of various technologies, not only the payment through home banking, credit card, POS, but also through the contactless of mobile phones that is certainly very useful, especially for small sums. In conclusion, I think I can say that this is the most concrete, most detailed motion, and the one with the greatest cross-cutting support. I am very pleased that it has been signed by representatives - I believe - of all the Groups, because at least on these issues it would be useful and important to get out of the logical majority-opposition. I am, of course, prepared to remodulate, if the Government considers it, because it wants to be a help, a stimulus, and not a matter of principle on which to stick; the important thing is to give the line. There are some draft laws on the subject that seem important to me to schedule and approve. It is also true, however, that this is a very complex matter which must then be managed by the Government. It is precisely for this reason that I would urge Parliament to take the broadest motion, because this is probably the only time when it can deal in detail with this matter which will then necessarily have to be specified by the Government, so it is the time when Parliament has the opportunity to give a specific address and it would be good to give it as wide as possible on such a fundamental and essential subject for the country. We start late, but we hope to speed up in the course of time. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u35	I call Senator Berger to explain motion No 299 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u36	Madam President, I wanted to make this motion to reflect on a situation that is not logical. In fact, alongside the benefits that should generate the increase in the use of electronic money in its various forms, such as the best customer service and the fight against money laundering, problems and distortions have arisen that need to balance advantages and disadvantages for the different subjects, avoiding that the stronger ones, such as banks and payment circuits, impose solutions to the weaker subjects, such as small traders and the weakest sections of the population. Worse still, with Decree-Law No 51 of 2014, the gratuity of card payments at fuel distributors, fixed by Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, ceases to be effective. The legislator has intervened several times on the payment market and, alongside the development of electronic payments and the lowering of the limit on the use of cash to less than 1,000, it is considered necessary not to aggravate in any way, precisely for this reason, the costs of the use of electronic payments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in our territories, both for tourism and for border purposes, the threshold of EUR 1,000 creates a flow of turnover in neighbouring countries of EUR million. The price of fuel, the freedom of expenditure and the possibility by some nationalities to pay in cash, as per tradition and according to the custom in the countries of origin of certain tourists, make these territories and their economy of tourism and trade lose millions of euros in volume of expenditure and added value. From a summary preliminary examination, among the main European countries with limits to the use of cash, it is noted that Spain has a limit of 2,500 euros, France of 3,000, Belgium of 15,000, Denmark of 13,400, Romania 2,300 euros and Slovenia 15,000, while Austria, bordering our areas, and Germany have no limit to the use of cash. Although the habit, according to statistics, is developing towards electronic payment - and Italy on this, in the European ranking, is below average in the use of electronic payments - however, the total costs, linked to the maintenance and use of the POS, are higher than more than 50% compared to the European average. I don't think this is a push towards electronic payment. Having said all this, I am of the opinion that it is essential to intervene in the market for payment methods, without penalising merchants or customers, and to address the issue by harmonising the various rules. Otherwise, Mr Undersecretary, there is a risk that the restrictions introduced for the use of cash, alongside the costs that generate electronic payments for operators, may harm the economy of our country, instead of encouraging it. For this reason, I hope and ask for a favourable opinion on my motion. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u37	I call Senator Pagliari to explain motion 321.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u38	Madam President, the motion deals with the issue of the system of payments via POS, with particular reference to the situations of those traders and traders who, because of their peculiarity, perform services directly on behalf of the State, as is the case with tobacconists and may be the case with the sale of newspapers. In this motion, this profile is examined and the needs for which there is a need for a regime that takes account of the above-mentioned characteristics are highlighted. The aim is to satisfy the general need to reduce the fixed costs of the terminal of the POS and to provide for these financial years a discipline that is characterized from the economic point of view by the freeness for another twelve months, in the current phase of settling, of the transactions that take place in the retailers of newspapers and those of tobacco for the services provided by the same on behalf of the State. [[Applause from the PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u39	I call Senator Molinari to explain motion No 350.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u40	Madam President, I too will be brief, because we agree with the other Members who have explained their motions. We all know that, compared to the European panorama, over 86% of retail payment transactions in Italy still occur through cash. On the other hand, there are a number of studies showing how widespread use of electronic payments would make a significant saving for our economy. Undersecretary Giorgetti, intervening in the Chamber, reminded us that it is estimated a total saving for the economy equal to 0.3% of GDP (with reference to GDP 2012, it is about 4.5 billion per year), if this payment system becomes widespread. Moreover, these data are consistent with the estimates of the Digital Agenda Observatory of the Politecnico di Milano, which reminds us that if we manage to increase the share of transactions through electronic payment instruments even by 50%, could emerge from the black economy at least 17 billion euros: a figure that, between VAT and direct taxes, would bring a revenue that would increase the state's coffers by 6-7 billion euros per year, without increasing the tax pressure. Looking simply at the cost of cash management, the Bank of Italy underlines that if we could increase the use of this electronic system by only 50 percent, we would have an additional saving of about 800 million euros for the country system, divided between advantages to the banking system and advantages to the merchants. In short, the use of electronic means of payment, as well as opening ourselves to the future, would be useful in order to generate at least two types of benefits: the reduction of the amount of the submerged (to which the escape is linked, an endemic evil that we carry behind us) and the consequent corruption, and the reduction of the cost of cash management, often underestimated by the merchants, but that, according to the data of Bank of Italy, would amount to approximately 8 billion euros per year. We also know that the legislator has recently adopted a number of legislative measures aimed at increasing the use of electronic cash. Given that the necessary legislative decrees aimed at strengthening the traceability of means of payment for the recognition, for tax purposes, of costs, charges and expenses incurred, but also to discourage the use of cash, we believe that it is important to commit the Government so that the use of electronic money does not become a further gift to banks and financial intermediaries. For this reason we ask and make some proposals that we put to the attention of the Government in order to: promote, with the active involvement of credit companies and electronic money circuits, a widespread campaign of information (also remembering the reflections of my colleague Palermo on the safety of such systems) to the users in order to familiarize with the use of the new electronic payment instruments; to ensure that the use of electronic means of payment is made convenient both by the elimination, or in any case with a significant reduction, of the fixed costs of the terminal POS, and by the abolition of the bank fees on payments, also by means of forms of tax relief that include the recognition of a tax credit to the merchants who have not yet equipped themselves with the tools necessary for the electronic payment. In this respect, I believe that the government should act as a force for conviction and debate in Europe, because we know that there is an attempt to amend the Treaty in order to harmonise costs. We believe that these costs should be completely eliminated. If we want to replace the currency that we currently use for purchases and transactions, we know very well that, except for the part of the seigniorage that is already incorporated, the customer does not have to pay further than the amount necessary for the purchase of the goods or for the provision of the service; it must be neutral in order to be truly substitute for the currency and cash in circulation. This will certainly lead to the possibility of facilitating the distribution of advanced POS terminals to commercial stores, also through the free convenient mode by credit companies and credit circuits in general. We also believe that it would be useful to take measures to encourage consumers to use advanced payment systems such as the protection and impeccability of sums below the survival threshold of payment cards. We know, for example, that many pensioners suffered foreclosures after using payment cards for amounts due to Equitalia or resulting from invalidity pensions, only because they then ended up in the total mass of the sums deposited. In order to move forward with regard to what is happening in the world, finally, we commit the Government to take every necessary measure to verify the opportunities for the development and dissemination of further electronic payment systems, which in more advanced societies of ours have become alternatives to the POS and favor the continuation in the continuous and progressive elimination of the use of the currency. I believe that these are useful bases to lead us not to pursue the future, but to be the ones to point the way for the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u41	I call Senator Bignami to explain motion 353 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the use of electronic payments allows, thanks to the traceability of transactions, to carry out effective actions to combat tax evasion and money laundering. Such forms of payment are therefore encouraged by recent European directives and internal rules, such as Article 12 of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, which reduced the maximum threshold for the use of cash. Among the measures that favor the diffusion of the electronic money there are then decree-law n. 179 of 2012 and the interministerial decree of 24 January 2014, that has fixed to 30 June 2014 the obligation for the subjects who carry out activities of sale of products or of supply of services also professional, to accept payments beyond 30 euros realized through the so-called POS (point of sale). These rules pursue several objectives: to make payments traceable even for small amounts; to facilitate the citizen who may have additional forms of payment; to reduce costs related to cash management by businesses; to limit fraud, counterfeiting, money laundering, theft and robbery. However, the rules alone are not sufficient to ensure the rapid and effective spread of electronic payments, because these new payment systems face many obstacles, both for consumers, traders and professionals. The latter complain mainly about the too high costs of installation and management and the lack of aptitude for the use of technologies. Confesercenti estimates an additional cost of about €5 billion per year for businesses. For a small company, with 50,000 euros of transactions per year, it is estimated a cost of about 1,700 euros between fees, commissions, installation and POS usage expenses. Many professionals, including architects, lawyers and chemists, have highlighted, among the critical issues, that the obligation has been extended to all without making adequate distinctions between the different categories and that of not having allowed a gradual entry of the norm, as initially provided by the legislator. It should also be stressed that many professional bodies have distanced themselves from the obligation to accept electronic payments for transactions exceeding 30 euros, as the rule does not provide for sanctions in the event of non-compliance. I think this is very serious, but this position has recently been endorsed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs' response to a parliamentary question. The MEF argues that professionals should have POS, but that, as there are no sanctions, the rule introduces a mere burden and not an obligation. In addition, Federconsumers highlights the risk that the costs still excessively onerous to dispose of the POS will be downloaded on the final prices applied to the consumer. In order to avoid further tax on the shoulders of entrepreneurs and professionals, and not a disincentive to consumption, the Government must implement corrective measures and provide for a number of incentives for the use of electronic payments. With this motion we commit the Government to eliminate the costs, commissions and fees imposed on traders and professionals in relation to the use of electronic money, excluding costs related to the purchase, rental and activation of POS. In order for the rule to be truly effective, sanctions must be introduced for those who do not comply with the obligation to provide POS and the costs of the dissemination of electronic money must be borne by the credit institutions. In this way, it will avoid that the provision is seen as a system to favor the banks and as an increase of the operating expenses for those who are obliged to have a POS station, as complain the professional orders, Confesercenti and Confcommercio. In this regard, I recall that Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 provided for the establishment of a table at the Ministry of Economy and Finance with the task of defining the general rules to ensure a reduction of the fees charged to operators, in relation to transactions made through electronic cards. The table was attended by the ABI, the Italian Post company, the Bancomat consortium, companies that manage payment circuits and associations of the most significant companies at national level, but without reaching any significant conclusion. In order to further encourage the use of POS, with our motion we also commit the Government to introduce tax reductions for those merchants and professionals who show virtuously that they have carried out transactions with electronic money, in more number than those made with cash payment. Another issue concerning the circulation of electronic money is the danger of the citizen being exposed to risks of fraud and identity theft. As pointed out also in the "Statistical report on fraud with payment cards" carried out by the Treasury Department of MEF in 2012, there are the following types of fraud on payment cards: stolen card; lost card; counterfeit card; unreceived card; fraudulent use of the issued card code; card used with false identity; fraudulent use of the card on the Internet. The Carabinieri's website explains that scams are mainly done through the use of the credit card number that is illegally reproduced on cloned cards used, then, both for traditional shopping and for e-commerce. Systems should be identified to allow greater certainty in the identification between the card and its holder. With the motion, therefore, we commit the Government to predict that the new credit cards issued from 1 April 2015 will be personalized with photo card. We are also aware that electronic payment systems can clash with digital divides. In order to mitigate the impact of new forms of payment on elderly, low-school or socially weak people, we commit the Government to raise the threshold currently set in Italy for the transfer of cash from 1,000 to 1,500 euros. Each European country, to date, has its own rules, its own limits and its own modalities of application of the rules on the use of cash, which involves a series of problems, including that of the limits on cash to be applied to the foreigner who comes on vacation in Italy. On the other hand, it would be desirable for the Government to take action at European level in order to promote the adoption of a common discipline in relation to the circulation of cash in all countries of the Union. We entrust ourselves to the Minister, with the hope that he will have the courage to make important and decisive commitments, both for the security of the citizen, and for a fight against tax evasion more efficient, and - last but not least - for the development of the economy. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u45	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask Senator Candiani to be prepared to accept my signature of motion 246 on his first signature. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I accept the subscription.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u46	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to speak briefly in support of motion 299, first signed by Senator Berger and signed by many of the representatives of the Per le Autonomie Group. The motion, without wanting to repeat its content, is very detailed and detailed and contains a whole series of data in support of the requests that it makes. These requests are aimed at ensuring that the costs of electronic payment systems are not solely borne by operators, but above all that the maximum limit of the use of cash is raised, at least for foreign citizens who are here in Italy for tourist or business reasons, but who do not have the residence in our country. I realize that this is in some ways a hot topic, and I remember that we have already raised it several times, even in the context of various measures, and it has always been rejected, but I would also like to draw the attention of this House to the reality, because we say that we are in Europe, and in fact we are in full capacity, but in reality we are not like the rest of Europe. We have a number of situations linked to commercial, craft and industrial enterprises which are comparable in standards to other European realities but which are actually affected by obvious distorting effects in competition or are faced with real examples of unfair competition. I am referring, for example, to the road haulage and cabotage sector: we know all the problems that have arisen and we know perfectly well that in other European countries there is another level of taxation and that the costs for staff are completely different. We continue to talk about compliance with the rules, but in the face of different situations it is impossible to treat companies in the same way. I hope that the Government and the House will not consider this issue with prejudice, but that they will have the courage to face the reality. Advertising messages often appear on Trentino's websites. The last one I have here with me, is on the Val Rendena site and concerns the Austrian Tyrol (Seefeld, to be precise). It is clear that there is no limit for cash payments in Austria in shops, restaurants and hotels. For those who pay in cash then additional discounts of 2 percent are reserved, if not even higher. I think being self-harmful is cheap. We have to face reality and realize that other European countries have other limitations. We continue to talk about compliance with the rules and continue to produce laws (we are the country that is richer in constraints, limits, norms and controls), but if we want to bring our autonomy to our knees simply because we want to be champions in the rules that we establish we must also assume the responsibility to recognize that all this puts in trouble many exhibitors. I believe that what Senator Berger asked for in his motion is absolutely acceptable and practicable, and I do not think that there is anything extraordinary in it and nothing that cannot be practiced. I hope that the House can therefore accept your request. At the same time, however, I would like the Government to put pressure on the European bodies (and we are still in the Italian Presidency) because on some rules it is absolutely necessary for Europe to be homogeneous. We have had the opportunity to discuss the issue already on the occasion of the famous percentage of fruit contained in fruit juices: it is useless to be the best at increasing the percentage contained in juices when then other countries can bring to Italy products containing less percentage of fruit. Without prejudice to the principles of free competition and equal conditions, on certain products it is appropriate for Europe to give itself uniform rules, otherwise we risk pretending to be all equal but to run with different means and weapons. And I believe that this, in a period of crisis such as what Italy is going through, which is now on its knees from an economic point of view, is absolutely no longer tolerable. I therefore hope that the Government and the House will make a gesture of responsibility by taking note of the reality and the situation before us and show their willingness to accept these requests which seem absolutely reasonable to me. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u48	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda provides for consideration and discussion of motions which are all of common sense. Some of them have been filed at the same time as a draft law which I hope will be drawn up as soon as possible (i.e. both my Parent Company and the President of the Finance and Treasury Commission). As I said, they are all motions of common sense and contain minimal differences, so much so that it would be useful to unify them. I would now like to stress the four pillars contained in all motions and also included in the draft law. It is proposed to abolish the fees on transactions made with credit cards, ATMs, bank transfers (it seems to me necessary); costs of the POS charged to the State, through the method of the free convenient, thus avoiding to burden on the commercial activities and the professions (categories already strongly pressed by the crisis) other fixed costs. In addition, the tax incentive could be used for those who use electronic payment, i.e. to provide for a percentage of deduction of expenditure made by electronic payments from gross personal income tax. In short, an advantage at the IRPEF level. But it will also be important to make an information communication campaign, perhaps even with information desks, so as to get Italians used to the use of electronic money. These are all measures which have been reduced from the point of view of simplification, both for the citizen and for the public administration. In a globalised world, in which everything happens electronically at the speed of light, the use of money in daily exchanges seems uncomfortable and out of time, while, with electronic payment, the advantages are obvious: for the citizen, payments are facilitated, the remains are avoided, receipts are reduced (we of the 5 Star Movement often deal with receipts), public administration can, more easily and at lower costs, fight tax evasion (so it facilitates the work of the Revenue Agency, in particular, that can carry out checks simply by crossing the data of the transactions carried out; in this way the area of possible evasion is reduced), and facilitates simplification in everyday life (think how much faster the expenditure, even the supermarket, with electronic paper, rather than the one with cash currency). Moreover, through monetic systems, it could also be combined with each POS, in addition to the account to which transactions are credited, also that for the crediting of VAT or withholdings, as well as the INPS account for the crediting of contributions. In one move, VAT evasion, tax evasion and withholding tax would be eliminated. This would be because the amounts for taxes and contributions would pass directly from the payer to the collector, without intermediaries and unnecessary obligations. On the other hand, measures against evasion are unavoidable. It is not a mystery that Italy is one of the European countries with the highest rate of tax evasion. According to the Task Research, which the European Union also makes use of for its statistics on the subject, the fees not paid each year in our country amount to the stratospheric sum of about 180 billion euros! The sum of 180 billion euros is equal to five 36 billion financial maneuvers, such as the one planned for the three-year period 2015-2017. Of course, these sums not paid are not only due to the use of cash, and we know very well that this reform must be framed in a much wider spectrum: from the distinction between business banks and savings banks to the talk of evasion for privileged tax countries, foreign companies dressed up, carousel fraud, spreaders, international offshore transactions. These are all measures that I think should be taken. We consider that six Italian citizens have escaped for a maneuver of 10 billion, settling and paying only 20%. Therefore, this is a useful simplification measure, but to be included in a much broader overall context. If we managed to recover the 180 billion euros (here we hope that Renzi will not listen to me, because if he listens to me and takes this thing, we will no longer get rid of it for the next fifty years, instead of twenty years), we could make a maneuver not of 80 euros for little more than 10 million citizens, but of 3,000 euros for 60 million Italians, nobody excluded. In my opinion, sometimes it is useful to have these numbers present, because, in fact, the advantages could be many. Let's remember: recovering that 180 billion would mean 3,000 euros for 60 million Italians; a maneuver that you could even try to do. Today, there have been initiatives in this regard, but they have not affected decisively because they have not grasped the problem and have not put themselves at the forefront, they have not listened to the needs of the citizens. I am thinking of the 2014 Stability Act, which excluded cash in the payment of rental fees regardless of the amount. It is possible to go backwards, to the so-called decree saves Italy of Monti, which, however, has limited itself to lowering to 1,000 euros the roof of the possible transactions in cash; to the decree Bersani, that in July 2006 introduced the norm for which the compensations of the professionals could be collected only through traceable financial instruments. It wasn't enough, but let's say it wasn't adequate and it also created problems for citizens. A counter-trend operation is needed: not to impose, but to facilitate and make the use of electronic payments convenient for all. If we look outside our borders, we notice that the use of cash is residual in Europe, especially thanks to the free use of electronic payments. In the US the use of cash is about one fifth of total payments; in our country the ratio is reversed. My lords, I summarize and begin to conclude. The reasons for reducing the use of cash are: simplification, traceability, transparency and the fight against evasion. To these I add another: the fight against organized crime. I am referring in particular to money laundering and counterfeiting of banknotes. Think that only in the middle of 2013 over 350,000 counterfeit banknotes were withdrawn from circulation. In short, adapting the habits of Italians to the use of electronic payments means adopting useful tools and obligations, but above all taking a decisive step towards the culture of legality. We have many mountains to climb; let's say that the approval of these motions could make the peaks closer. However, let us also remember that the Italians do not trust us because they fear night manoeuvres at the Amato - you remember them all - and therefore they are afraid to abandon the cash because they may fear that they can no longer have any money overnight. What we have to do is cultural progress, which puts the citizen at the center, giving confidence, so as to make the advantage for him and for the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gaetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u50	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Gianluca. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u51	Madam President, I would just like to make a few comments, not least to confirm the importance of the debate and the motions that have been tabled, particularly that of the Democratic Group, at the first signature of Senator Pagliari. All the speakers and the presenters of the motions have highlighted as a central point, fundamental for our country, to address on the one hand the issue of economic growth, on the other also that of the contrast to forms of tax evasion and avoidance, how important and fundamental the use of the telematic currency. In view of this consideration, as the motions propose, it is necessary to address the issue - unfortunately particularly evident in our country - of the reduction of costs for the use, by operators, of electronic currency; costs that in Italy are 50% higher than the European average. As many studies show, the widespread use of electronic payments allows more advantages: traceability of transactions, helping to combat, as I said, tax evasion and money laundering, improving fiscal compliance, thus facilitating the emergence of a submerged wealth, not a secondary issue, especially in our country. On the other hand, some European directives and even internal rules push in this direction. It is clear that the limited use of cash and the increasing use of electronic money are a major issue, and that it is correct to be addressed in today's debate. I would like to stress, before concluding, a very important point. Some colleagues have raised the question of the discrepancy with some countries in the EU area, especially Austria and Germany, which have no limits to the use of cash (although, to be honest, the legislation of those countries on financial transactions is very different from ours): this would put in a disadvantage some areas of our country, especially tourist areas. I would remind you that in 2012 Law No 44 was passed which allows a derogation to the use of cash for citizens not resident in our country or in other countries belonging to the European Union, raising the ceiling to 15,000 euros and forcing, of course, to protect the operator and the operator and for no other reason, to a procedure and to a series of bureaucratic obligations not particularly burdensome, starting from the reporting to the Agency of revenues, as well as the registration of the user who makes use of the derogation precisely to the use of cash; this law allows to overcome the issues posed during the debate without introducing a topic such as the derogation to the use of cash that would be in contrast to all the choices made recently by both the current Government and the previous ones, in particular the most recent one, which instead, where necessary, have introduced some derogations and, if not necessary, have enhanced the limitation of the use of cash. Of course, particularly in our motion, we also want to put some specific issues that Mr Pagliari highlighted in the presentation and we want to point out as a commitment by the Government, consistent with what the countries of the European Union are doing, towards a cost reduction, is a very important signal that goes in the sense that is also desired by the debate this morning. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u52	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u53	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u54	Madam President, in order to make the most of the great work that has been done by my fellow senators, I would like 15 minutes of suspension on this subject in order to ensure appropriate rewording of some of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u55	I think it's necessary. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 11.37 a.m.) The session is resumed. I call on the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr De Micheli, to give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u56	Mr President, I apologize if I take a few more minutes to propose some rewordings. We have come up with a series of reformulations, I think, quite shared. For the first motion (following the agenda), tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, No 246, we have only reworded the commitments that the Government intends to make on the issues discussed today. On point 1 of this motion we have come to a rewording which will be the same for all motions in which a similar request has been made concerning the cost of fees for electronic payments. The text we are proposing - which is therefore valid for the Candiani motion and for all other motions - is as follows: "to assume the results of the technical table on the costs of electronic transactions opened in the EU, aimed at harmonising costs on a European basis, in order to achieve the lowest level among those practised in the countries of the European Union". There is, in fact, a technical table at EU level which is dealing with this issue. The Government's commitment to this is to fully assume its results, since, in competitive terms, these will give benefits to Italian consumers. On point 2, on transparency, I propose the following rewording, which applies to all further motions which have provided for a similar commitment to the Government: To make the cost of accepting payment cards as transparent as possible for the consumer as possible, as the absence of regulation on the minimum limit for purchases via POS creates uncertainty towards final consumers. With regard to motion 248, at the first signature of Senator Palermo, I propose the following rewording of point 1: "to evaluate the possibility of spreading the use of electronic payments" by deleting the words from "incentivising" to "POS" and "maintaining the following: "modernising the infrastructure to allow payments in contactless mode and through mobile devices." I would also suggest the following rewording of point 2: "to evaluate the possibility of facilitating the distribution of POS terminals by banks and credit circuits, to commercial businesses also through the free convenience mode (as already happens for ADSL modems). A generalisation of this practice would also facilitate the transition from current POS to new generation POS. On points 3 and 4, the Government takes the opposite view. In point 5, the following rewording is proposed: "to stimulate the promotion of a widespread information campaign to users, in particular to the most critical groups such as the elderly, for the familiarisation and proper use of new payment instruments." On point 6, I am against. The rewording of point 7 is the same as I have just read about the current table in the European Union and, if necessary, I read it out of fairness: I take the results of the technical table on the costs of electronic transactions opened in the EU, aimed at harmonising costs on a European basis, in order to achieve the lowest level among those practiced in the countries of the European Union. I object to point 8, as well as point 9), because the latter touches on a topic that is being discussed right here in the Senate on the delegation of public administration, so it becomes tautological, in the sense that it will be the Senate to decide in technical and detailed terms how to get to the encouragement of digitization of the PA. On point 10, as regards transparency, the text which I have already read earlier in relation to the last point of motion No 246, which seeks to make as transparent as possible for the consumer as the cost to the trader. Turning to motion No 299 (text 2), points 1) and (2) of the provisions are always reworded with the text relating to the European Union's technical table, which I do not reread because I think the senators have understood it well. Unfortunately, on points 3 and 4 below, because of the incompatibility with the anti-money laundering rules, I am obliged to give an opinion against it; also on point 5, I am against it, because the content is the same. With regard to motion 321 by Senator Pagliari and others, I propose a rewording of point 1) of the device with the transposition of the text resulting from the said technical table opened in the European Union on the costs of electronic transactions. In point 2, however, the following rewording is proposed: "to assess the possibility of spreading the use of electronic payments, encouraging, among other things, operators to install POS terminals and modernising the infrastructure to allow payments in contactless mode and via mobile devices, starting from the introduction of the free convenient for POSs. I realized that I forgot to say something about Senator Berger's motion, but if I may, Mr President, I would like to do so at the end of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, Madam Undersecretary. DE MICHELI, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. With reference to motion No 350 by Senator Molinari and others, paragraph 1, concerning the information campaign for users to familiarize themselves with the use of electronic money, a reformulation of the content of what we have already requested for motion No 248, by Senator Palermo and others is called for. For the first part of point 2, until the word "payment" is applied the rewording of the above-mentioned table of the European Union. Then, after the comma, from the word "maybe" onwards, we ask instead for the exponence of the remaining part of the text, on which a negative opinion is given. On point 3) the same rewording required for Senator Palermo's motion No 248 is called for, with regard to the free comodate of the POS, then also taken up in motion No 321 at first signing Pagliari. On point 4) I am against, while on point 5 only the replacement of the word "alternatives" is requested by the word "additionals" (to the POS). With reference to motion 353 (text 2), first signed by Mr Bignami, in point 1, the aforementioned rewording concerning the technical table of the European Union, which has already been mentioned for other motions, is called for. On points 2) and 3) I am against, while point 4) proposes the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of predicting that new credit cards for those who request them can be customized with photo card." Since there is a problem of privacy in this case, we need to assess the cross-compliance of the relevant legislation. I am opposed to point 5, while I am in favour of point 6, because there is a call for harmonisation on the issue of the circulation of cash at European level, something which the Government is already trying to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u57	With regard to motion No 299 (text 2), it seems to me that on points 1 and 2) the Government has proposed an overall rewording largely attributable to that relating to Senator Candiani's motion, while a negative opinion has been expressed on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5). Correct me if there's any mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u58	In fact, in my text, point 3) says something else, so I correct my opinion: points 1) and 2) are reworded; the opinion on points 4 and 5 is contrary, while on point 3) there is a rewording - Senator Berger, I apologise but I have two different texts - which I would like to read: Technically assessing the possibility of exempting from the obligation of use of the POS those who cannot use it for special and exceptional conditions in which they carry out their business (e.g. in the absence of connection to the electricity, telephone or broadband network).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u59	Senator Candiani, do you accept the two rewordings proposed by the Government to motion 246? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palermo, do you accept the rewordings proposed in motion 248 and withdraw the points on which the contrary opinion has been expressed? PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Berger, do you accept the rewording to motion 299 (text 2)? BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I accept the rewording of points 1), (2) and (3) and, if I may, I would ask for a separate vote on point 4). Point 5 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u62	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I believe that there has been a pro quo here. I would ask the Secretary-General to pay attention to this, because the rewording of point 2 of motion 321 should also be aimed at verifying the possibility of a special system of cost amortization, starting with the free use of the POS for tobacco dealers and newspapers, for the services which they carry out in the interest of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u63	Mr President, Senator Pagliari is right: I was wrong because I read another reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u64	This time it is Parliament that reformulates the Government, and I am pleased about that. Senator Pagliari, do you accept the government's reformulations to motion 321? Mr Pagliari (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Molinari, do you accept the government's reformulations to motion 350? MOLINARI (M5S). We accept the rewordings of points 1, 3) and 5), while we do not accept them for points 2 and 4, for which we will ask for a separate vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bignami, do you accept the rewording of the Government to motion 353 (text 2)? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I accept the proposed rewordings on points 1) and 4) and I would like to ask for a split vote on the points on which we have voted against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On this point, ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary to examine whether there is Parliament's will at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u67	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate we have developed has been very important because it has led to a summary. The government must commit itself seriously. The hope I make to the Undersecretary and, through you, to the Government is that these motions will not be yet another one that, even if approved by the Senate Chamber, in reality remains a dead letter. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed to the fact that the motions are degraded at the agenda level, the agendas at the level of recommendations, the recommendations at the level of rag paper. Let us give dignity to this instrument and make sure that what we approve today becomes a commitment to the citizens, restoring some credibility to this instrument. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u70	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind you that we have tabled a motion which tends to make people reflect and mitigate the effects of a process which seems to us to be reductive even of personal freedoms. In particular, we refer to the fact that this process tends to eliminate cash, thus eliminating the direct ownership of each citizen on their financial availabilities, making the money in fact available to the credit institutions that govern the liquidity in the possession of citizens, deposited on the current accounts. In this sense, we have provocatively introduced a commitment to change the limit of cash allowed for commercial transactions, in the conviction that it would be much better that this limit could be defined by the Government with measures, because of the fluctuating of the value of the currency and therefore also its purchasing power. For the rest, we accept the proposed rewordings, as my colleague said, and we will vote in favour of the parties we share.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u73	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, as members of the 6th Commission, we are particularly sensitive to this issue. As you know, since the beginning of the parliamentary term we have been engaged in a cognitive investigation of tax-tax relations and taxation in general and in the examination of both the now approved tax delegation and the measures that are deriving from it, the problem of tax evasion and its possible solutions are always at the heart of the Commission's attention. That the spread of electronic money has an obvious anti-evasive function is undeniable. However, as it has emerged in the context of the cognitive investigation that we are carrying out and as it is emerging from the examination of the various measures, no single measure is able, on its own, to counter the evasive phenomenon. Demonizing the use of cash by favouring only electronic money is therefore not a definitive solution because, for a number of reasons that we are examining in the 6th Commission, it does not put a definitive brake on the evasive phenomenon, although it is still a step forward. Moreover, in view of the advantage that the use of e-money offers in terms of combating tax evasion, one cannot fail to consider the disadvantages that a prevailing use of e-money may result, in particular for the weakest consumers, as well as those who have to use this instrument for their business. I think of the small entrepreneur, who has a small cabotage business, activities whose profitability can have a significant impact on costs that may seem laughable to us or in any case not relevant. We have therefore proposed, for example, the adoption of tax relief measures to absorb costs which - although, as we have learned, dealt with in a European forum - are especially significant for small businessmen and small businesses. Not only that, but it also objectively affects the weak part of consumption that I identify, for example, in the elderly, those who have an objective difficulty in dealing with the new payment instruments. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]] This objective difficulty could, however, be overcome, and perhaps had to be overcome in the past, with an appropriate training campaign, a training which cannot be spot-type, but which must guide all social groups to a comparison with the new instruments that obviously represent the future of payment: this we cannot Hiding it from us. The concept that we want to make clear, however, is that it is not possible that, in the face of a secure advantage, as we see in the introduction of our motion, for the State and for the financial system, which is confronted with significant costs related to cash management, which will objectively be eliminated by a greater spread of electronic payment systems, the costs fall instead on the weak: on small entrepreneurs, on the elderly, on those who have difficulties in using these instruments. This is why we have proposed a series of solutions to meet these sectors, so that the whole circuit, starting from the banking one, with the intervention not exclusive but significant of the State, would lead to a total and even definitive reduction of these costs on those who are most affected by it. In view of this, our motion, which I am pleased to have been accepted by the Government, raised the question of innovative payment instruments. We have mentioned some of them: we talked about Bitcoin and Quick Image Payment. These are, of course, only general indications, some even come from Italian patents, so they represent an excellence of our country. If it is true that there are difficulties, in fact, it is also true that there are the youngest groups, there are those who can meet these instruments and also provide an alternative to the traditional banking circuit, while offering high safety standards that therefore guarantee all the subjects involved from possible fraud, from a tax abuse, that is a phenomenon that always assumes a particular characteristic and that undoubtedly our Country lives as an extreme criticality, and also this is useless Hiding it. We have therefore accepted some of the proposed rewordings, but we cannot be prepared to accept some others, because in our opinion the simple indication of a European table of comparison is limiting because we believe that the Italian State and the Italian banking circuit must do more and therefore we believe that that type of rewording is not acceptable. Since this statement has been accepted within other motions, we can only announce our abstention vote, as it runs counter to the principle that we have taken with our motion. We particularly appreciate the objective content of motion 248, at the first signature of Senator Palermo, which in many respects converges with ours, but we cannot agree that it accepts conditions which we believe should be overcome. If it is true, in fact, that we have predicted costs to be borne by the State, it is also true that these costs objectively - we have shown it based on the numbers that are provided by the Government and not by the 5 Star Movement - would pay themselves, with the greater revenues deriving from the contrast to the escape and the lower cost that the whole system would have for the management of the cash that the Bank of Italy tells us to have a significant impact also on the profitability of the credit institutions. For these reasons, we announce our abstention vote on motions that are not the one presented by the 5 Star Movement and, as our colleague has announced, we accept the rewordings relating to points 1), 3) and (5) of our motion and we will ask for a separate vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u74	Senator Molinari, I was represented a further request from the Government regarding the rewording of point 5), i.e. to delete the part of the text included between the two brackets on the second and third lines. Do you accept the reformulation? MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to repeat this, because the request is not very clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In point 5), in the second and third lines, delete the part in parentheses, i.e. the following: MOLINARI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I welcome this amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u77	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, with regard to motion No 299, I very much welcome the fact that, with reference to point 3 on the technical impossibility of using the POS for Alpine shelters, it has been decided to undertake a technical study to provide for an exception. With regard to point 4 of text 2, Mr Undersecretary, which does not correspond to the original text, we read: "to assess the possibility of amending Italian legislation, including possibly taking into account specific situations, with regard to the limit of the transfer of cash by providing for Italian citizens a threshold higher than that currently envisaged of 1.000 euros." It is certainly a commitment, but mitigated by the words "to evaluate" the possibility of modifying "to." I think that what has been requested is not contrary to existing legislation, because it requires a change in the legislation itself to that effect. That is why I would ask you to give a positive opinion at the time of the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u80	Conte (NCD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the motions by the New Centre Group which aim to standardise, at European level, the methods and costs of using electronic means of payment, to disseminate the use of electronic payment instruments and to reduce the costs borne by commercial operators. On the other hand, the sharing demonstrated by the Government, which with the proposal for reformulation of some points tried to find a common synthesis of all the motions, I think is appreciable. Our vote, therefore, will be a strong vote in favour also in view of another aspect. That is to say that the Government undertakes in the future to address a further topic just touched on in the motions under consideration and that is to raise the maximum limit of 1.000 euros in order to facilitate the circulation of cash especially in the field of tourism, as many tourists coming from countries not accustomed to the use of electronic payment instruments could be discouraged to take advantage of the commercial exercises of our territory. We believe that this is one of the issues that the government will have to address in the future. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u83	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the subject dealt with in the motions was, in the original wordings, quite interesting and raised some issues that we particularly care about. First of all, the problems of the protection of individual freedoms were addressed, which concerns the need to deal with the rules of the economy and, last but not least, the issue of convenience in the widespread use of the POS in our territory. I believe that on these issues, with the watering down that the reformulations have produced, we have missed an important opportunity to give answers to the needs that come directly from Italian society. We are not here to dictate directions to the government regardless of what is happening in the economic sector. The latest data denounce a further slowdown in consumption which, in part, can also be attributed to these forms of payment not entirely adequate to meet the various needs. As I said, we have therefore missed a great opportunity to give answers to citizens, exhibitors, craftsmen and professionals. To conclude, following the President's wish to make brief explanations of vote, I announce that the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura will vote in favour of motion 299, of which Senator Berger is the first signatory, but in the original wording, recalled a moment ago by the presenter himself. We strongly reaffirm the need for the Government to intervene with concreteness and realism in order to widen the possibility of using cash by increasing the threshold today attested to 1,000 euros, definitely not comparable with the values set in other European countries. We also believe that efforts should be made to make electronic money a fair and economic model for the benefit of citizens, craftsmen, professionals, traders and the economy as a whole. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u86	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, I speak very briefly to confirm the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour, according to the rewordings indicated by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u87	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 246 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 246 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 248 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 248 (text 2), tabled by Senator Palermo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On motion No 299 (text 3) a split vote was requested. Since there are no objections, the request is accepted. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of motion No 299 (text 3). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1) and 2) of the motion No 299 (text 3), tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of item 3 of motion 299 (text 3), tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 321 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 321 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pagliari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On motion No 350 (text 3) a split vote was requested. Since there are no objections, the request is accepted. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of motion No 350 (text 3). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 3) and (5) of the motion No 350 (text 3), tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 2) and 4) of motion No 350 (text 3), tabled by Senator Molinari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion No 353 (text 3) a split vote was requested. Since there are no objections, the request is accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of motion No 353 (text 3). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 4) and 6) of the motion No 353 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points 2) and 3) and 5) of motion 353 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u88	Colleagues, from reports I have received from the Groups, the understanding would be to proceed today to the incardination, with the report by Senator Casson, of the discussion of the bill amending the penal code and the law of 1 April 1999, n. 91, regarding the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, and to postpone the general discussion until next week. If we do not make any comments, we shall proceed in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u89	The next item is the debate on draft law No 922. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u90	Mr President, on 4 July 2013, the Senate Presidency was informed of the draft law which took on No 922, concerning the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. In our order there was, and still exists, a special law in this regard, No 91 of 1 April 1999, concerning the collection and transplantation of organs and tissues, which concerns both organs and tissues from the subject whose death had been ascertained and also from the living subject; however, the norms in this latter regard were expressly defined as compatible. Now, it is clear that in such a delicate matter it has been proposed on several occasions and repeatedly the need to regulate behavior; necessity that has increased constantly and quickly over time, precisely as a result of the number of organs donated, so much so that the waiting lists, as the first signatory of the bill tells us, that the patients waiting for the transplant are growing day by day and constantly. The access of patients to organ transplants is conditioned in the various countries by a set of factors: from that relating to the costs and the cost of health care to the level of technological progress, but also to the concrete and effective availability of organs. Especially the latter particular, namely the shortage of donors, over time has led to an increase in international trade, a tourism dedicated precisely to finding organs to be finalized for transplantation, with particular reference to developing countries. In this last situation, where sale is allowed, we find ourselves at levels of respect for human dignity absolutely lacking and I would say in some cases even shameful. I say this because organ trafficking is a real form of trafficking in human beings and represents a very serious violation of fundamental human rights because it deeply violates the physical integrity of the person and the dignity of man himself. On a trade of this kind, the great organized crime for the very important profits that can be recovered in this way has been thrown to the fore. In addition, the protection and risk aspects for human health should be mentioned. I would remind you, in passing, that there are some dated international conventions which propose this issue and which call on the Member States to take action. The first international reference I would like to mention is that of an additional protocol linked to the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which was signed in Oviedo on 4 April 1997. Subsequently, in 2004, the World Health Organisation intervened to invite Member States to take measures to protect the most fragile groups, preventing the purchase and sale of human organs for transplants. In particular, the World Health Organisation called on and urged States to ban all forms of advertising, including electronic advertising, instead of soliciting mediation and disposals for the profit of human organs. At this historic moment, the Council of Europe is currently preparing, moreover, a convention dedicated exclusively to the establishment of international instruments for the repression of the trafficking of human organs. I want to conclude this first part of my report by recalling and sharing the agjective and connotation that the first signatory of this bill, Senator Maurizio Romani, has expressly spoken of a form of neo-ocannibalism. If we think about it, we realize that this is not an exaggeration because the body of others is considered as a source of spare parts with which to prolong their lives in an illegal and criminal way, sometimes chasing after the appetites of criminal associations. I am also saying this because the bill in our examination imposed criminal repression precisely by aiming at the indication of criminal associations dedicated to drug trafficking. I must say, however, that during the course of the work in the Commission, during which a broad debate took place and a thorough work from a social, political, but also technical point of view, it was preferable to regulate the matter in a more technically correct and complete way, starting from the fact that the actual crime that is to be identified and punished is technically defined as common because it wants to incriminate the conduct itself of the trafficking of organs taken from a living person. The wording that has been given is as broad as possible, in the sense that Article 601-a of the Criminal Code is introduced and reference is made to "Whoever, unlawfully, trades, sells, buys or, in any way and in any way, procures organs or parts of organs taken from a living person." During the Commission's work, discussions were also held on punishing mediation in a specific way. Now, from a technical and legal point of view, we have considered it in the Commission and the doubts raised here have been overcome, in the sense that precisely such a wide-ranging technical wording will certainly include mediation in these activities. It is said, in fact, that it sells, buys or procures in any way and in any way whatsoever. Moreover, in order to meet the demands for completeness and to avoid, however, having doubts to the interpreter of doctrine, jurisprudence and even the public of any administration, including the police offices, I included this morning with the amendment of the rapporteur, after the word "procurement," the expression "treatment." This means that the article is supplemented as follows: "Anyone who illicitly trades, sells, buys or, in any way whatsoever, procures or processes organs or parts of organs taken from a living person" This wording should, therefore, meet all the needs of interpreters, including law. Article 2, on the other hand, introduces amendments to Article 416 of the penal code, precisely to meet the demands of the presenters of the bill and also the criminal reality of the facts. We know, in fact, how the criminal organizations that have made a real business of this traffic are now. For this reason, there are specific references, such as the introduction of the reference to the new Article 601-a in the list of offences for which the charge involving imprisonment from 5 to 15 years applies. This is a rather important penalty - and it is a penalty that I will remember when we examine the amendments - precisely to point out that some amendments, which would like to increase the penalty further, with the indications of this particular case are largely covered precisely with regard to the severity of penalties. Article 3 of the draft law deals, instead, with coordinating the introduction of this new discipline with the specific rule of Article 22-a of Law No 91 of 1999, which I mentioned at the beginning. This is a rule that was created for the approach of the legislation itself from an administrative and social point of view of the matter of transplants. In this case, this is a different provision concerning criminal sanctions and criminal cases of criminal law. Then there is article 4, the last of the bill, which merely carries out further coordination with Law No. 458 of June 26, 1967 on kidney transplantation between living persons. Moreover, before concluding my report, I would like to point out that the case included, because it is also called for by the international conventions that I mentioned at the beginning, is precisely the one relating to propaganda, communication and criminal tourism of this kind. This punitive rule has been inserted in the second paragraph of Article 601-a, which is requested to introduce, which literally establishes: "Save that the fact constitutes more serious crime, it is punished with the imprisonment from three to seven years and with the fine from 50,000 euros to 300,000 euros anyone organizes or propaganda travels or advertises or disseminates, by any means, also by computer or telematic means, adverts aimed at the traffic of organs or parts of organs referred to in the first paragraph of this same article 601-a. It is obvious that with this preceptive and sanctioning indication it has been and will be appropriate to coordinate the rules of the special law of 1999. Mr President, this is my report. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will of course deal with them later after the general debate. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u91	Thank you, Senator Casson. Colleagues, as previously stated, the general discussion is postponed until next week. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-361.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.28 a.m.
