ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u7	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u8	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u9	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:59 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 5, which contains: Request for authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Antonio Azzollini in criminal proceedings pending against him (No 1592/09 RG - No 2629/11 RG - No 3775/13 RG GIP). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly the refusal of authorization to use telephone interceptions against Senator Antonio Azzollini. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 January 2014, the judge for preliminary investigations at the Trani Court sent the Senate an application for authorisation to use Senator Antonio Azzollini's telephone conversations in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him. The President of the Senate referred this request to the Council on 29 January 2014 and announced it in the Chamber on the same date. The Giunta examined the application in several sessions and in the session of March 25, Senator Azzollini distributed to the present a summary and deposited a further defensive memory, to which several documents have been attached, specifying that the same analyzes in more detail the profiles indicated synthetically in the summary memory previously deposited. On April 10, 2014, the Giunta accepted the rapporteur's proposal to request, through the Presidency of the Senate, an integration inquiry to the court of Trani, aimed at the acquisition of a copy of the crime report of the State Forestry Corps, as well as the detailed chronological of all entries in the register of suspects charged to Senator Azzollini, in order to know the precise dates of the registrations in the aforementioned register for the individual and different hypotheses of crime. Documentary integration was transmitted by the judicial authority to the Senate Presidency on 27 May 2014 and referred to the Junta the following day. In the session of 10 July 2014, the Junta accepted the proposals of the members to transmit to the President of the Senate the request for the acquisition, by the competent judicial authority, of the order for the extension of the term of the preliminary investigations of 27 January 2012 (and of all the acts recalled within the same), as well as of all the orders concerning further requests for extension of the investigations themselves (with the related acts recalled). The further documentary integration was transmitted by the judicial authority to the President of the Senate on 29 August 2014 and referred to the Junta on 3 September 2014. The request for authorisation, submitted by the judge for preliminary investigations by the Trani court, concerns the interception of ten telephone conversations recorded between 4 May 2010 and 6 October 2011. It should be noted in advance that the judge for preliminary investigations found the intercepted telephone records of users to be unusable on 4 May 2010, for which the prosecutor requested authorisation to use them. The request is in the context of two criminal proceedings pending against Senator Azzollini, in competition with other defendants, which concern the works of realization in the new commercial port of Molfetta, which took place between September 2006, when the definitive plan of the public work was validated, and October 2012, when the Senator resigned as mayor of the municipality of Molfetta. Senator Azzollini, therefore, acting as mayor of the municipality of Molfetta, is accused by the judicial authority of having committed, in competition with others, a series of crimes that are listed in the report that is at your disposal. The judge for preliminary investigations accepted the public prosecutor's request to forward to the Senate of the Republic of the request for authorization to use interceptions against Senator Azzollini, instead rejecting, as previously pointed out, the application lodged by the prosecutor for the use of telephone records. The defense of Senator Azzollini claimed the violation of Article 4 of Law No 140 of 2003, as well as some procedural nullities. The judge for preliminary investigations, after rejecting the procedural exceptions, refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 390 of 2007, to point out that in the present case Article 4 of Law n. 140 of 2003 does not apply as much as Article 6 of the same law. The judge for the preliminary investigation also states that the request for authorization to use telephone interceptions has been used by Vincenzo Balducci and has been granted not for the offence of office abuse, but for that of association to criminals, auction disturbance, fraud in public supplies and corruption. The telephone calls on Mr. Balducci's users were made from 4 to 6 May 2010 and it should be noted that Senator Azzollini, registered in the register of suspects for the offence of office abuse on 16 March 2009, was also registered on 30 April 2012 for the offences of scam and aggravated scam, while on 5 August 2013 he was registered for the crime of association with criminals. Moving on to the analysis of the reasons underlying the decision of the Junta, it is noted that the second preparatory integration, referred to the Junta itself on 3 September 2014, has revealed, in the context of the requests for extension of preliminary investigations, the indication of the title of crime of association to delinquere for all the co-indicates and therefore also for Senator Azzollini. The same proxy in its letter of 21 August 2014 states: I represent to you how not to deceive - with regard to the legal position of the Azzollini Antonio - the circumstance of the cumulative and undifferentiated indication (omissis) of the titles of crime. In fact, the aforementioned undifferentiated indication of the titles of crime (and therefore also of the one referred to in Article 416 of the Criminal Code) not only can actually be misleading, but it is also likely to create a reasonable doubt as to the date of the effective initiation of investigations against Senator Azzollini for this criminal case. In this case, the constitutionally relevant principle of favour implies the logical consequence that the doubt on such a significant element for the assessment of the occasionality or not of the interceptions on third party users inevitably results in the rejection of the request for authorization. But also to follow the argument implicitly put forward by the judicial authority - that of material error - the profiles of doubt are not solved. In fact, in this case, the registration of Senator Azzollini for the offence of competition in office abuse, dating back to March 19, 2009, made predictable a usual interlocation between the various competitors and, consequently, made concretely configurable for the investigating authority the risk that intercepting conversations on telephone users in the name of third parties could be indirectly intercepted even the Member in question. Therefore, in this case the judicial authority, while not directly pursuing the objective of intercepting Senator Azzollini's telephone conversations through third party users, could not fail to represent the probability (or at least the concrete possibility) that by intercepting third party competitors in the crime, the parliamentarians involved in such competition would also be intercepted. In this overall context, the fact of the nature of the crime entered in the register of suspects may be irrelevant. In fact, even if we merely hypothetically considered that the date of 16 March 2009 Senator Azzollini had been registered only for competition in the crime of office abuse, it would have been expected that the same, even in his capacity as mayor of the Municipality who commissioned the public works in question, could have held regular and repeated talks with the person in charge of carrying out the work itself (and also competitor in the offence of office abuse). This is an absorbent circumstance compared to other issues that emerged during the investigation and in particular to that relating to the actual date of Senator Azzollini's registration for the crime of association with criminals. For the above arguments the Giunta has resolved to propose to the Shareholders' Meeting the refusal of authorization to use telephone interceptions against Senator Antonio Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u12	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u15	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about authorising the use of telephone conversations in criminal proceedings, which are based on corrupting assumptions, which certainly involve more people, but we are still talking about cases of corruption. Yesterday morning we Italians woke up with a new record: Italy is the most corrupt country in Europe, we read it in all the newspapers. We have passed Bulgaria and Greece. The index of perceived corruption puts us permanently in 69th place in the world. A record to be unproud of. Yesterday's headlines all focused on Rome's Mafia arrests. A procurement mafia that involved, or rather overwhelmed, both right-wing and left-wing parties. As always, political crime in Italy is bipartisan. I arrive from Veneto, the Region of Galan and the deputy of Galan - which now runs again for the Presidency of the Region - and the scandal of MOSE, a black hole that has swallowed up in bribes, waste and billing inflated a figure close to 3 maybe 4 billion euros. A figure equal to a thousand times as much the mother of all the bribes, that Enimont to understand us. Once again - even with reference to the MOSE - these are strictly bipartisan bribes, so as not to displease anyone. In Veneto, the candidate for President of the Centre-Left Region had funding for the European election campaign by the Maltauro family, a well-known Vicenza company twice under the National Anti-corruption Authority, as if it were the most normal thing in the world. Of course it's fair, but is it ethical? The most important infrastructure under construction in my region, the Venetian Pedemontana, worth more than 2.25 billion, is realized by hiding to all citizens the economic convention that establishes methods and criteria of reparation of the work. Four requests for access to documents and two parliamentary questions were not sufficient to enable these documents to be acquired. Where there is no transparency, ladies and gentlemen, we know that there is bad business and there is no transparency in the matter of Pedemontana. I have made this premise to point out in a strong and clear way that the fight against corruption is clearly a priority in our country. We need an effective anti-corruption law. We all know that. We need a reform of the statute of limitations and the introduction of fake into the budget. We know, however, that all these reforms have been blocked by the government long before the summer. To tell the truth, at the insistent request of the 5 Star Movement, the package of anti-corruption norms had even been removed from the dust and placed on the agenda of the Senate in conjunction with the explosion of the scandal bribes of Expo 2015. We all remember that because we were in the election campaign for Europeans. But the day after the closing of the polling stations - it happens - the package of anti-corruption laws, among which was also present the bill at first signed Piero Grasso, disappeared from the agenda. Let us ask ourselves whether this is just inability or unwillingness to act; is it not, instead, a lack of will to make justice work? Why, on the other hand, should you go against your interests? I would remind you that Parliament's inaction in the fight against corruption, however, is complicity. In this context, certainly not idyllic, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities denies the judiciary to do its job, or rather makes it more difficult for it to do so, denying authorization to use telephone interceptions in criminal proceedings against Senator Azzollini. Now, I have nothing against the powerful Senator Azzolini of the New Right Center. It could also be the archangel Gabriel, but, if the mayor of Molfetta is protagonist of the waste of 150 million euros destined to the construction of a useless port, harmful and never finished and is intercepted incidentally by the judiciary, why must politics be the one to subtract it from its responsibilities, putting itself sideways and therefore hindering the ascertainment of the truth? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato]] Please don't call me back to Article 68 of the Constitution, which has nothing to do with it. It has nothing to do with the opinions or votes expressed in the performance of the Members' duties and the users intercepted - as we all know - were not his. Azzollini really had to be saved at all costs, because he had to remain President of the Budget Commission, probably in exchange for trusting that shame of the jobs act or perhaps in exchange for a budgetary maneuver more sensitive to the needs of some. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It does not matter, therefore, that at the head of a fundamental Commission for the spending laws of our country sit a famous gentleman for having made self-assign to the city of which he was first citizen, first 70 million euros, then increased to 150, for the construction of a pharaonic work, harmful to the environment, useless and never completed. Again there are only words here, but for the rest it goes on as before with broad political and business understandings so strong as to advise any foreign investor to travel far from our country. The victim of persecution is not President Azzolini, but the entire Italian people, illusory that everything changes, and then witness the fact that all together incredibly, including the League, continue to defend the caste and one of its most authoritative exponents. For all these reasons, I declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour of the authorization of the judiciary to use telephone interceptions in criminal proceedings against Senator Azzollli, as the entire Italian people would like, with the exception of you who once again represent him unworthyly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u18	CUCCA (PD). The evaluation of this matter, as has happened and will happen for the similar events for which the Junta is called and will be called to evaluate, poses problems for the delicacy of the task that the Junta itself is called to carry out. That is why we have always acted within the framework of the Junta in full freedom of conscience and I believe that today too we are called to apply this principle and to play our role very serenely. It is for these reasons that we shall be voting in favour of the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, Mr Moscardelli, in full agreement with the content of his speech, especially with regard to the legal maturity of his reasoning, which is then essentially identified with respect for the constitutional norms, to which we, like all of us, are also required in the assessment of the case that deals with us, always without - I would like to stress this - external influences of any kind, but with the sole intention of respecting the principle of legality and the rules in force, at least until these rules remain in force, and without making any assessment of the merits of the accusations because that assessment is not absolutely up to us. There are other parliamentary bodies that will assess the facts as they are reported in the procedural documents. Of course, everyone, as we have always done so far, will respect the decisions and assessments that will be taken. I confirm the vote in favour of the proposal presented by Senator Moscardelli. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u21	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). In the preamble, I would like to say to Mr Cappelletti that it is unworthy of those who do not always comply with the laws, even in this House, and that therefore those who offend by generalizing the judgment of parliamentarians or ordinary citizens risk self-respect. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] You don't have any licenses to give such judgments. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u22	Let the co-worker speak. Senator Buemi, continue your speech by trying to contribute to the work as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u23	[[Lively comments from Senators Lezzi and Moronese]] BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). President, we have all been called into question and no one can afford it, not even them who are like us from the point of view of law! Mr Lezzi (M5S). It's a personal matter. You can't talk to Senator Cappelletti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, don't interrupt your colleague. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I shall now briefly comment on the substance of the matter. [[Comments of Senator Lezzi]] I believe that the task of judging all of us is for the judiciary and in this sense we do not hinder this activity, indeed we reaffirm a principle that at least for me is fundamental: we are all called to respect the law and the Constitution and, therefore, even those who are called to judge by playing the role of investigative authority are obliged to respect the laws of the State. Now, from this story it emerges that this has not been done and, therefore, regardless of the merit of the matter, there is a principle that even the State when acting through its servants must respect the law. In this case, it seems clear to me that this has not been done and we reiterate this fundamental principle, which does not go beyond the responsibilities that have yet to be established in the case. I therefore vote in favour of the report by the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE because the fundamental principle of compliance with the laws must be observed in all locations.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make a great deal of thought, also by comparing this matter and the conclusions of the report presented by the Junta with another one, which we have also examined here, in which a little different behaviour has been carried out. I'm referring to Senator Milo's affair. With great frankness, I think there have been double standards. Having said that, I am announcing the vote against by the Left Group on Ecology and Freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u29	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, with regard to the proposed report and with regard to the whole issue, we too consider that we are voting in favour of the Junta's proposal, considering that, because of the way in which the investigations were carried out and because of the assumptions, in this case the investigators could not fail to represent the probability that Senator Azzollini was being intercepted. Our vote will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u32	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u33	I refer to the vote on the proposal of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity to refuse authorization to use telephone interceptions against Senator Antonio Azzollini, transmitted by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Trani court, in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! All together! MORONESE (M5S). Sold! The whole PD!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on document IV-c, No 1, which contains: Application of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution in civil proceedings against Senator Gabriele Albertini (civil procedure No 17851/12) pending before the court of Brescia. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly that it declare the incompetence of the Senate to decide on the matter in question. I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u35	Mr President, I am speaking in place of the rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, who is on a mission. I would also point out, in advance, that Senator Albertini has been an uninterrupted MEP since 2004, he was elected Senator on 24 February 2013, proclaimed by the Court of Appeal on 5 March 2013 and replaced by the European Parliament by the Court of Appeal on 12 April 2013. The case from which the civil proceedings in question originate relates to events which occurred prior to the election to the Senate of the said Member of Parliament. Senator Albertini himself, with a letter addressed to the President of the Senate of 7 August 2014 states that: The facts underlying the case date back to the end of October 2012, when I was a Member of the European Parliament. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would ask you, if possible, to stop the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u36	You're right, Senator Stefano. Colleagues, these are matters of particular delicacy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u37	Please, Senator Stephen. STEFANO, f. f. rapporteur. The Constitutional Court (judgment no. 252 of 1999) ruled that - in the event of a change in the Chamber of Membership - the decision of insindacability is always the responsibility of the Chamber to which the parliamentarians belonged at the time of the fact at the origin of the question. It should be pointed out in this regard that the assessment of the so-called functional link - i.e. the connection between opinions expressed and the exercise of parliamentary function - cannot but be entrusted to the Chamber of Membership at the time of the event, given that only the latter can be titled to the evaluation of functional profiles, i.e. to assess whether the opinions expressed are attributable to activities carried out in that parliamentary forum. It would be a logical paradox - as well as a legal paradox - to demand the evaluation of the link between opinions expressed and activities carried out by the Member during his office to a Chamber other than that to which the Member himself belonged, with the absurd consequence that a Chamber would thus be entitled to ingest itself in the sphere of autonomy of another and to assess therefore the relevance of the opinions expressed to the parliamentary activities carried out in another Chamber. In the present case, at the time of the event, Senator Albertini was a Member of the European Parliament and, consequently, the European Parliament had the power to take a decision, which was also addressed by Senator Albertini himself, asking for a ruling on his case. Following this request, the European Parliament, at its meeting on 21 May 2013, decided not to recognise the irreplaceability of the views expressed by it and to accept the proposal of the Legal Commission. The latter did not see a functional link with the work of a Member of the European Parliament and therefore considered that the prerogative of the opinions expressed was non-existent. However, on 24 July 2013, Mr Albertini, meanwhile proclaimed Senator, requested that his case be reconsidered by the European Parliament's Legal Commission, which issued a recommendation to reject the request for a review; a recommendation subsequently accepted by the European Parliament on 24 February 2014. On 7 August 2014, Mr Albertini asked the President of the Senato Grasso to take a decision on the same matter. Among other things, Mr Albertini himself points out that many important facts have occurred since the beginning of the civil proceedings.................................. Following this request, Senator Albertini, by letter dated 16 October 2014, attached a communication from the European Parliament of the same day, by which that parliamentary institution informed the interested party that the request for a review of the decision of 21 May 2013 had been referred on 16 September 2013 to the European Parliament's Legal Commission, the only institution competent to take a decision (and possibly to review its decisions) on the matter in question. For these reasons, the Junta proposes to the Assembly to declare the incompetence of the Senate to decide on the matter in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u38	I declare the debate open. Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u39	Mr President, first of all, I would like to draw the House's attention to the following subject. A short time ago, some of us here mentioned the tragedy of our country: corruption, crimes related to the exercise of public functions. In this case, however, we are talking about critical opinions expressed by a representative of the institutions - I was then a Member of the European Parliament, now a Member of yours - regarding the behaviour of a magistrate who is also having other complaints from the judiciary bodies themselves, both ordinary and accounting. I say this because I believe that there is a substantial difference, even when we deal with the arguments in procedural terms, in the content of the arguments we are talking about. This issue has to do with the institutional functions of a colleague, a representative of the citizens, whether it be a Member of the European Parliament, a Senator of the Republic or a Member of the Italian Parliament. In this respect, I would like to mention a decision taken by the European Parliament precisely to defend the immunity of a Member of the European Parliament, Mr Di Pietro, who reads as follows: Mr Di Pietro was carrying out his duties as a Member of Parliament. Trying to gag Members in court proceedings against them in order to prevent them from expressing their views on matters of legitimate interest and concern in public opinion is unacceptable in a democratic society and constitutes a violation of Article 9 of the Protocol which aims to safeguard the freedom of expression of Members in the exercise of their mandate in the interests of Parliament as an institution. I believe that this argument, the protection of the views expressed by a Member, cannot be subjected to purely procedural situations at a time when the strong argument is our ability to exercise the functions of direction and control of the government's activity, certainly, but also of other bodies first of all in the jurisdiction; so much so that on the same subjects I also made a statement to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, two exposed to the General Prosecutor's Office at the Court of Cassation, a statement to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As regards the substance of the civil case, which is being developed and which is being discussed here, I would like to read to you the order of the civil court of 27 October, which states: It was found that the defendant's claim presupposes proof of the real and putative truth of the facts based on the criticism of the actor's behaviour, which, in relation to the speech, the investigation starts from the same prosecutor who questioned at night, with methods by Gestapo, the City Councillors and the Town Councillors of the City on the blank amendments, then proved to be a non-consistent crime,... the evidence of the defendant is admissible as it aims to demonstrate that the resistor was convinced that the interrogators had taken place in accordance with the manner described therein. At this point I can quote a well-known act in which four witnesses, as well as the same person subjected to a police arrest (abusive, I believe) testify the facts that I have declared to be censorable. He added: "Other test chapters are irrelevant in that in relation to the Serravalle procedure (another reason for censure on my part of the magistrate's behaviour), "it is common ground that no referral to the judgment of the suspect Penati had been requested within the legal period, nor that the proceedings be closed. So, on the subject, I think I can say that, defending myself in the trial, the pronunciation will be in my favor and maybe I could also get the reimbursement of legal fees. But that's not the point. I am asking you whether, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the opinion expressed without insults, without unfair behavior is defensible, without there being anything offensive in the expressions, but only criticism of a behavior. I add a final argument, perhaps the most disturbing one: the prosecutor, indeed the assistant prosecutor, who brought this case to me, is investigated by the anti-mafia prosecutor of Reggio Calabria because (and I quote the expression collected by a weekly, the Espresso of 27 October, which reports excerpts of a telephone interception of the same with a lawyer defending his suspects) was orchestrating maneuvers to hit the former mayor of Milan. I would add, always quoting the article: "It does not hide the antipathy for Albertini". Now, it is really creepy that a magistrate, for his own economic gain, interfered with the activities of a Member of Parliament and even orchestrated maneuvers to delegitimize him. That is what I bring to your attention. Moreover, a number of judgments have been issued by the Supreme Court which admit that the European Member's guarenties also extend to his duties where he is in other situations of popular representation, such as that of the Senate. We have also talked about Senator Verdini and about situations concerning membership of the other legislative chamber, the House of Deputies. Now, these are procedural arguments. I invite you to consider the subject in its substance and to defend our freedom - not just mine, also because I will probably win this process - and our duty to exercise the role of directing and controlling the legislative power and communicating to the public of facts and circumstances that can be censored for the respect of the institutions and to fulfil our representative role. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u40	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u43	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Albertini has clearly explained his situation. I should like to add that we are in a different situation from the previous one. In this case, in fact, it is indisputable that the colleague was carrying out and carrying out an activity covered by a constitutional guarantee. We can interpret it as that of the European Parliament or that of the Italian Parliament, but it is clear that here we want to review its views freely expressed in relation to events of political importance. That is why I would like to call on my fellow Members to say that we cannot but guarantee some kind of cover. It is astonishing, for the truth, that the European Parliament, probably with an absolutely bureaucratic and non-essential interpretation, has not granted this healing, but today Albertini is a senator of the Republic and must be able to continue, without conditioning any, his parliamentary activity. Then, by examining in depth the merits of his statements and also taking into account the other contexts, those which over the years have shown themselves about the behaviour of certain magistrates, as in this case, I believe that we cannot fail our colleague to cover Article 68 of the Constitution. In this sense, I declare the parliamentary group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE vote against the proposal of the Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u46	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I do not believe that a case brought to our attention specifically concerns each of the Members of this Senate. We are, in fact, talking about the specific nature of the work of a Member of Parliament, who, as the only shield, has the possibility of expressing his views freely, a constitutionally guaranteed freedom. When I was President of the Montecitorio Authorisation Board we had unanimously established a document in which we specified that the freedom to express opinions obviously had to be related to the political or parliamentary activity of the congressman or senator. It is clear that all opinions which are expressed on matters relating to an undertaking which a Member may carry on, a profession of his or her own, a private interest are excluded. But in this case we are talking specifically about a Member who has undertaken a civil, political and cultural battle in defense of a position he had held when he was mayor of Milan and when, rightly, he defended a work put on the charge, in ways now known to all, by a single magistrate who had addressed to Senator Albertini very heavy accusations, against which Albertini used the right to respond on a dialectical and political level, then found himself attacked on the judicial level. Colleagues, this problem is very delicate. In fact, if someone who has time and availability (can be a strong, banking or economic power, it can be any reality that feels harmed by the work of a Member) denounces a Member or takes civil action against him, that Member risks being paralyzed. Unfortunately, in fact, the civil causes present problems: meanwhile, because extraordinary sums are demanded, that the poor Member (in the sense of poor tapino who incurs these events) finds himself eventually having to pay; but also because the process itself is something unbearable when you are called to respond to statements that a Member has the duty to do. Members of Parliament must take a stand, they are representatives of the people, they must have the courage, the willingness and the sense of responsibility to say the things that ordinary people cannot say, precisely because this is their specific function. Unlike the magistrates, they cannot arrest, inquisite, judge anyone, but they can speak. This is called Parliament and the case of Senator Albertini is the specific case of a Member who is under civil trial simply because he has expressed opinions and continues to express them. They ask us to tell them whether the Senate is competent or incompetent to deal with this case. I think the Senate is absolutely competent. Let's not hide behind the quirks, saying that the cassation said something different. We have already dealt with Senator Verdini's case in this legislature and the story he was involved in happened when he was a Member and not a Senator. It is clear that Senator Albertini must speak, defend or carry out his considerations in the place where, with continuity, he exercises his mandate. He used to be in the European Parliament, and now he's in the Senate of the Republic. And it is the Senate of the Republic that has to say whether it is competent or not and to enter into the substance of the defence of a colleague who exercises our right. It is not the right of Senator Albertini, but it is our right to speak, to be political, to be able to influence and make complaints when, as in this case, we are within the limits of not offense and not insult, but simply in the context of considerations carried out in defense of the actions of those who, as mayor of a city, managed three billion as extraordinary commissioner, six billion as mayor and never received any notice of guarantee. And I also tell my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that sometimes we will also have to distinguish, without shooting in the pile, between crime cases and situations similar to yours when, by making complaints in this House or by taking harsh positions in relation to certain situations, you could be brought to justice. Do you want me to pass the principle that whenever you speak, as this morning has been done, there is someone to denounce you, so that you must spend your life in court paying lawyers to defend your right to speak? That is not how democracy works, when you also defend your right to make politics, to make complaints and to be able to speak in and out of this House. Colleagues, this situation today is about Senator Albertini, but tomorrow it may affect each one of you. Although I see many distracted colleagues, I assure you that, when a person is facing these situations, he is very careful; if the case were to concern a distracted colleague, I assure you that he would be very attentive to what happens, because such a mechanism inhibits a Member from his right and duty to make politics. For these reasons, the Group of the New Right Centre votes against the principle of incompetence, reaffirming that this Senate is competent to deal with cases such as Senator Albertini's. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u49	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, citizens who listen to us, I would like to try to explain in a simple way, even to colleagues who have not followed the work of the Junta, what we are talking about, without going into the substance of the matter concerning the procedure of Senator Albertini. Senator Albertini is subject to a trial for the crime of defamation. This happened during his term of office in the European Parliament. And that's true. When he was in the European Parliament, of course, the functional guarantees provided for Italian MEPs in the European Parliament immediately started. In that process, the European Parliament has already decided that, in this particular case, there was no functional link between the exercise of its mandate as a European parliamentarians and the statements made by him, which are subject to future and eventual judgment for the crime of defamation. That's a fact. Senator Albertini further appealed for a review of the procedure to the European Parliament, which has already decided that the examination of the request for an appeal must be entrusted to the Commission which deals with these matters. Therefore, a body, in this case the European Parliament, has already decided, and is also deciding on the possible appeal. Therefore, there can be no further decision on the part of the Senate. We can also decide, by approving the Junta's report, that this Senate is not competent. Let us imagine, however, that in a few months we are going to the elections, because the Chambers are being dissolved, and Senator Albertini is running for office. Then he will return the same question to the House. As you know, the trial may last three, four or five years, but maybe after two years we go to new elections, Senator Alberini will return to the Senate and the matter will be referred to the Senate. Theoretically, that would be possible. On the other hand, a judgment has already been given by a House, in this case by the European Parliament, and this is the end of the matter. It is not possible, whenever you change the House of Membership following new elections, to propose the same request asking the new House to decide on something that has already been decided within the previous House of Membership, which was the one that had the competence to understand and decide if his writing was related to the function he was exercising. Therefore, regardless of the specific case, namely the merits of the judicial procedure, it is absolutely clear to us that there can only be an incompetence on the part of this Senate to decide on the substance of this matter. I would add, however, that it would be appropriate to address (unfortunately, this opportunity was lost during the debate on constitutional reforms) a revision of all the rules concerning the functional guarantees of senators and Members. We have to try to take a step forward. We have seen these Chambers too many times, not defending their members from abuse, but defending them in order to protect a collective interest. After seeing what has been discovered in Rome in recent days, after seeing what has been discovered in recent years with scandals one after the other, perhaps we should open Parliament in the sense of making it as equal as possible to society, without any kind of guarantee; putting ourselves under the same conditions as any citizen who must go to courtrooms to defend himself while he should do his job. We cannot continue to maintain this privilege. I therefore call on you to reflect on the possibility of carrying out a complete review of all functional guarantees concerning interception, arrest, seizure and more. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u52	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in these days, the problem of political abuse, corruption, the combination of illegitimate interests and the State, both through its officials and through its elected representatives, is very topical (of course always is). A few years ago a mayor of Milan opposed the evil, he opposed maneuvers that, according to court reports, caused an erarial damage much more than 100 million euros, he did so by all means that he had at his disposal first as mayor, then as a European parliamentarians and finally as a senator. This former mayor of Milan is Senator Gabriele Albertini. If you think that voting de facto against Senator Albertini, putting him in the hands, so to speak, of the secular arm in a view of populist severity, you are doing justice, I would say that you are doing exactly the opposite, because Albertini has sided, put his face, risked and we see that he is risking his own to avoid the evil, to prevent a public administration from receiving an erorial damage of hundreds of millions. He opposed it with all the means at his disposal - as I said - and also with four questions (one of the instruments typical of the work of a Member of Parliament) presented as a senator. Therefore, if we vote in recognition of the incompetence of the Senate, as the majority of the election committee proposes to do, let us say that a senator must be careful in drawing up the parliamentary questions with which he denounces the wrongdoing, with which he denounces the damage done to the State and if he had already done so in another way, he risks paying heavily the consequences of his courage, of his sense of duty in defending the interest of taxpayers and, therefore, of the State. As far as the competence of the European Parliament is concerned, it must be said that the former Article 10 (a) of the Protocol on privileges - a bad word that should be better translated, given the evolution of our language - and the immunities of the European Communities provides that the guarantees which Parliament has for national law remain intact. In our case, Article 68 of the Constitution also applies to Members of the European Parliament. It is not because one is elected to Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg that loses these rights; among other things, rather than his rights, it is the rights of citizens to have parliamentarians who can truly defend their interests without fearing anyone who can act against them. The Court of Cassation, in judgment No 35523 of 25 September 2007 (so not even recently), ruled that it is not only the provisions of Article 10 (a) of the Protocol on the privileges of the European Parliament, but also Article 68 of the Constitution, which protects the work of the European Parliamentarian. Therefore, Senator Albertini, for his activities (in my humble meritorious opinion and on which it would be very, but very interesting to enter into the matter, also because they relate to very current facts; but we must stick to the subject we are dealing with), has twice the right to a resolution of the Senate that says that he is acting as a senator and that these are complaints and arguments on which there are his precise, specific and very detailed acts carried out by senator, not only because now Gabriele Albertini is senator, but because already as a European parliamentarians he was entitled to the protections referred to in Article 68. Therefore, the fact that the European Parliament has stated that it does not recognise the indisputability, by a decision which could also be amended, does not mean that we should not identify a body that decides it; and this body is clearly the Senate, and we can do so by analogy with what was intended, for example, for the former Ministers for certain procedures, because Albertini is a senator (if he were a Member today, it would be up to the House), even if he had not asked questions as a senator. But I prefer to stick to what he has reported with his questions. For these reasons, Forza Italia will vote against the Junta's proposal because we believe that there is a competence of the Senate. More specifically, more on the subject, we believe that we are talking about a Member who thinks he is defending the interests of his country. In this case, these are interests certified by court expert opinions, that is, the interests of our country to which maneuvers carried out by certain local administrators with certain entrepreneurs do not depress the country of hundreds of millions of euros. Well, we believe that those who commit themselves to these things as senators have the right not to be prosecuted, because they are activities, in my opinion meritorious, but in any case to carry out acts relating to their parliamentary function. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u55	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous ballot of the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity to declare the senate's incompetence to take a decision on the matter covered by the proceedings in title. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u59	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I would like to inform the Presidency that I made a mistake in the vote and that my vote is therefore in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u62	DI GIACOMO (NCD). Mr President, I too have made a mistake and, therefore, I say that my vote is against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All senators who wish to report an error during the previous vote are entitled to notify the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 7, which contains: Request for authorization to use conversations and telephone communications of Mr Antonino Papania, Senator at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 21561/2013 RGNR - No 13877/2013 RG GIP). The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization for the use of telephone conversations and communications of Mr Papania, Senator at the time of the events, for the interceptions carried out only until the end of November 2010, instead rejecting the request of the judicial authority for subsequent communications, consisting in exchanges of SMS messages, intercepted on 6, 15 and 29 December 2010. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Buccarella, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the matter we are interested in is based on a request from the gip of the court in Palermo regarding the use of intercepts by Mr Papania, Senator at the time of the events, in the context of a criminal procedure for corruption that sees Papania among the suspects. The request involves a phone call of 13 June 2010 and a series of text messages ranging from 12 October 2010 to 29 December 2010. The intercepted user was registered to a waste company and used by that Mr. Orazio Colimberti. Corruption would consist of hiring in exchange for certificates of regularity of contracts and services which would instead be irregular. Papania was entered in the register of suspects on 13 October 2011 with effect from 10 September 2011. It should be noted, however, that... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u65	Colleagues, please allow Senator Buccarella to report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u66	BUCCARELLA, rapporteur. As I said, the request of the public minister was wider than that considered by the Junta but the judge for the preliminary investigations has already reduced the package of intercepts usable to those happened before 3 January 2011, limiting the request on the assumption that, on that date, Mr. Papania had already been identified as Senator of the Republic and, therefore, the interceptions after 3 January 2011 would no longer be "casual." In fact, the original request of the prosecutor concerned three decrees falling within a period of almost two years, i.e. from 13 June 2010 to 14 May 2012, relating to 13 telephone conversations and a total of 68 series of SMS communications. Senator Papania sent a first defensive memory to Giunta where, in addition to configuring a fumus persecutionis, he assumed that, as early as July 7, 2010, investigators would identify the subjective qualification of the parliamentarians. The Pope himself, however, on the request for the extension of the interceptions of July 7, 2010, notes an absolute genericity of the accusatory hypothesis. Well, this very statement implies as a logical consequence that the accusatory framework is not in itself suitable to configure that change of the investigative act necessary to spoil the use of interceptions. In practice, there is no change in the objective of the investigation that still remains such Colimberti Horace. As a result, any evaluation of fumus persecutionis becomes superfluous, due to the still random character of the intercepts. In a later memory, former Senator Papania claims that since June 13, 2010, the same was identified as a deus ex machina of the corruptive episode. These circumstances, however, are contained in an information of the Carabinieri of 9 September 2011, then after the date of 3 January 2011 set by the gip. The Pope also complained that in a phone call of 28 November 2010 the Pope was identified as an Italian politician of the Democratic Party and Senator of the Republic whose factotum is involved in different proceedings related to mafia crimes. In relation to these findings, it is clarified that this note of the Carabinieri came to the Public Prosecutor's Office only on 13 December 2010, as emerges from the stamp of receipt. After this summary of the story, we come to the decisions of the Junta. At its meeting on 18 November 2014, the Giunta rejected by a majority the proposal, formulated primarily by the rapporteur, to grant authorisation for the use of all communications subject to the request of the judicial authority. The rapporteur's proposal was based on the fact that the change in direction of the investigative act was not, in the present case, demonstrated by any certainty and no doubt. However, in the case in question the reference to a subject, defined as a factotum of Senator Papania (he was basically the cashier of a boss of the Mafia, Melodia), and the specific indication in the summary elaborated by the Carabinieri of the circumstance of the involvement of that subject in a criminal procedure (as well as different) raised the doubt - it is reiterated, not proven in any way by the elements adduced and the elements emerging from the analysis of the files - that the direction of the investigations is at some point changed (or should have changed), with consequent involvement in the investigative attentions of the investigative organs also of Senator Papania. In accordance with the constitutionally relevant principle of favour, fumus mutationis (i.e. the concrete possibility in the case of a change in the direction of the investigations, even if it has not been proved in a sure way) has led the Junta to choose to limit the authorization only to previous communications compared to the date of the interception in question (the last of which dates back to 26 November 2010), with consequent exclusion of all communications subsequent to that date (the first of which dates back to 6 December 2010). It should be pointed out that the Junta, always in respect of a strictly guaranteeing approach, has also rejected the second proposal, formulated by the rapporteur in a subordinate way, to limit the authorization, excluding only the interceptions after 13 December 2010, date on which, as already mentioned, the note of the Carabinieri of 10 December 2010 arrived at the offices of the prosecutor, as clearly emerges from the stamp of receipt affixed to the document. The Junta therefore accepted the third proposal, which was put forward further by the rapporteur, to consider the date of discrimination on 28 November 2010. In fact, it has been considered that, while the public prosecutor is responsible for the investigation, the judicial police are nevertheless responsible for investigative functions, pursuant to Article 55 et seq. of the Code of Criminal Procedure, carried out on their own initiative or by delegation of the judicial authority. In the light of these circumstances it was therefore considered configurable the fumus mutationis since the day of the telephone call in question (i.e. November 28, 2010), both for the investigative awareness that the Judicial Police could have from that date, and for the possible informal interlocations of the Judicial Police itself with the prosecutor (possible, in abstract, even before the formal written communication of the Carabinieri of 10 December 2010, received on 13 December 2010). For the above arguments, the Giunta decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization for the use of telephone conversations and communications by Mr Papania, Senator at the time of the facts, referred to in Document IV, No 7, for the interceptions carried out until the end of November 2010, instead rejecting the request of the judicial authority for subsequent communications, consisting in exchanges of SMS messages, intercepted on 6, 15 and 29 December 2010.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u69	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, as the Senator Buccarella's recent report points out, in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities we voted on three proposals made by the rapporteur (two other proposals were also put forward, one of my own and one of Senator Cucca's signed proposals). The third proposal put forward by the rapporteur was adopted by a very close majority: I use the expression'very narrow majority' to try to represent in the House in an euphemistic way the particularity of the vote which, in accordance with the usual literature of the reports, is recorded as a majority vote. The criticism of the reasoning carried out in Giunta - and which will be repeated today during the discussion on the rapporteur's proposal - concerns the moment when, first by the magistrate and then autonomously by the Giunta, the changed direction of investigation is assessed. The proposals made in Giunta were many and I believe that, as the same report points out, there is some confusion between Senator Cucca's proposal and the last of Senator Buccarella's proposals: in fact, Senator Buccarella's proposal provided authorization for communications intercepted until the date of 30 November 2010, that of Senator Cucca, as is carefully reported in the report, referred to October 2010, without specifying the date. This has probably led to a quick vote. For this reason, and so that there may be a further deepening of the time gap with the changed direction of inquiry, I propose to the House that the request for authorisation which we are dealing with should be referred back to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities for further consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u72	BUCCARELLA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am opposed to the request for a postponement, because I believe that the problem underlying Senator Ferrara's reasoning has been largely dealt with in the context of the work carried out in Giunta. I therefore insist that the Assembly should take a decision on the proposed decision by a majority of the Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u75	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking only to express my support for the proposal made by Senator Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u78	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I too share the reasons that have been brought to the attention of Senator Ferrara. The reason for my reasoning lies in the fact that in the provision for authorization of the use of interceptions there is an express reference to the fact that, since the first days of November, the investigative organs were actually aware of the office held by Senator Papania. I therefore believe that it is indeed useful to go further in the Commission. In this respect, we believe that the proposal for a postponement can be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u81	MANCUSE (NCD). Mr President, we in the New Right Centre are also in favour of Senator Ferrara's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u82	I put to the vote the proposal for referral back to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of Document IV, No. 7, tabled by Senator Ferrara Mario. It's approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u83	The next item is the debate on draft law 1642, already approved by the House of Deputies. [[Senator Buccarella's comments at the address of the PD Group]] Senator Buccarella, please calm down. We've moved on to another point. The rapporteurs, Senators D'Ascola and Moscardelli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u84	Senators and senators, I speak for the part concerning the crime of self-cycling, leaving to Senator Moscardelli the illustration concerning the most complex part of the return of capital from abroad. The rule is organized according to this scheme: there is an objective demarcation of the employment, transfer and substitution of the illicit proceeds. The demarcation is objective as these conducts must concern financial, economic or speculative business activities. This demarcation is not intended to lead to an unjustified reduction in the scope of criminal law, but it responds to warned needs that are reflected above all in the risk of duplication of criminality. We must not forget, when we talk about self-laundering, that it is about punishing in the course of self-laundering conducted which are already punished with reference to the so-called crime upstream. Therefore, in providing for this criminal criminal law, it was necessary to select conducts that were detached both from the objective structural point of view and from the temporal point of view of the upstream pipelines, in order to avoid what would otherwise have been an unacceptable phenomenon of ne bis in idem, in the sense that a conduct of another kind already punished would have been punished twice. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.20 a.m.) Moreover, it was necessary to eliminate the risk of unreasonable penalty treatment given a circumstance that should be underlined, namely that of the penalty asymmetries that could characterize the crime upstream from the crime downstream. In view of the considerable punishable nature of the crime of self-laundering, one could not fail to consider the fact that the crime upstream was, at least from an abstract point of view, punishable in some cases by penalties significantly lower than the so-called crime downstream, i.e. the crime of self-laundering. This demarcation therefore has a functional meaning in order to avoid unreasonable sanctions and that ne bis in idem which would have led Parliament to punish twice the same fact. With this clarification, there is a similar justification for the clause in the text of the autocycling crime according to which the conducts must not only converge in the direction of economic, financial and speculative activities, therefore of objectively defined and perceptible activities, but must also take place in ways of hindering the determination of the origin of the proceeds used for the fulfilment of those same activities. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the crime of self-cycling is also characterized by a definitional rule that establishes in which cases such conduct can be considered to exist and in which others such conduct cannot be considered to exist, in the sense that the enjoyment and use absolutely and exclusively personal - therefore those conducts that stand close to and, in a certain sense, overlap with the conduct of the alleged crime - do not constitute self-cycling. With these, I hope, brief premises for the rest I shall return to the text, which is certainly broader, of the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure allows for the re-emergence of sums and capital held abroad in Italy and is part of the guidelines set out by the Greek Commission and the OECD guidelines. It must be made clear that this is not a pardon, but a procedure which is nominative and which provides for the complete declaration of all activities and sums, for which there is a very clear and heavy criminal responsibility in the case of false declarations, as well as full cooperation with the Revenue Agency. Moreover, the emergence of this procedure will result in the payment of all taxes due, without discounts. With the draft law under consideration, action is taken to encourage the use of a transparent procedure (anonymity is not allowed at any time), which allows the full volume of liquidity to emerge within the scope of legality. Moreover, with the introduction of the crime of autocycling and with the implications and the aspects highlighted by Senator D'Ascola, it is a procedure that represents a passage by which the perseverance in conditions of illegality is discouraged, since these conditions in the future will be affected by the order in a very punctual and heavy way. The procedure provided for in the draft law concerns violations until 30 September 2014 and can be used until 30 September 2015. It is true that, as far as this procedure is concerned, a number of issues have emerged in the course of the debate, some of which have been highlighted with amendments. However, these are partial elements, which do not affect the validity of the measure; so the attitude of the rapporteurs was to assert the desirability of approving the measure by 31 December. As the present one is a time of particular crowding of parliamentary work, with the budgetary session and therefore the examination of the bill of stability, it is appropriate to approve the text as it has come from the House. That is why all the amendments were rejected in the Commission yesterday, although in the course of the comparison they were prepared to assess any future situations. In essence, the measure remains intact, valid and effective, so we can reassure on the stability of the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u86	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the law on the voluntary return of capital is a necessity and the Italian criminal law has a desperate need to introduce the rule on self-money laundering. On the basis of international agreements, many Swiss banks have decided to make their customers' names public and will therefore renounce anonymity. This opens up the opportunity for a kind of transaction with the Italian taxpayers who have so far made the smart ones. The President of the Renzi Council just a few days ago said that the time of the clever is over. It's about time. The smart guys report the money in Italy with names and causatives and pay the taxes due, as there is no discount on the amount due as a tax: they do not pay full tax sanctions and get a shield only on the criminal level (the offences referred to in Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000 do not apply). However, the State collects an estimated figure in a fork between two and four billion euros, which will be very useful at this difficult stage. On the occasion, self-recycling is introduced as a new crime figure. It would be the crime of those who, having committed a profit-making crime, do not give others that money to hide them, reinvesting them or mixing them with other money, but do those operations for themselves. Today the conduct of the perpetrator of the so-called presupposition (the one that produces the illicit profit) is not punishable. I repeat: it is punishable only that of the third, which is precisely called recycling, even if it is poorly applied, as Francesco Greco and Raffaele Cantone have recently declared. The FATF, the main international body in the fight against money laundering, had expressed the need for the regulation on self-recycling to be introduced in Italy as early as 2006 and, considering that in the first months of 2015 our country will be the subject of a new evaluation, it becomes indispensable to fill this gap. Moreover, self-recycling exists throughout Europe, the United States and even the Vatican City Penal Code. The crime of money laundering - introduced in 1978 and then modified several times, last in 1993 - was introduced because the crime of protection was not enough to suppress the conduct of those who wanted to wash the dirty money in the legal economy. Today, however, things have changed. We are no longer able to distinguish the so-called clean economy from the so-called dirty economy. There are no criminals on one side and on the other the professionals and bankers, who have clean appearances, but who, black sheep in a flock of honest people, are willing to clean up the money in lawful operations. Today many operators have a double face and there is a large grey area, where money is also born in lawful forms but is brought illegally to Switzerland or other tax havens and then returns as investment, combined and mixed with riches of illegal origin. Often then we have the reverse path: from the clean economy the money goes into the aforementioned accounts to the Caymans and they constitute supplies of tax evasion, that is, of the black economy. So it no longer makes sense to limit the indictment of money laundering to those who have not committed or competed in the underlying crime. The activity of concealment and confusion of money - which is a fungible good par excellence - very often makes it the corruptor, the evador, the mobster. There are those who claim that this is a crime against the heritage while I believe it is a multi-offensive case, because it consolidates the damage to the assets of the victim of the underlying crime, but it also harms the administration of justice and the public economy as a whole. In fact, those who autocycle, with investments and purchases of various kinds, prevent or make more difficult the operations of refreshment of the victim, but it pollutes the credit and the development of the prices and, ultimately, the whole system of economic relations. There are technical aspects that have left the magistrates dissatisfied and that perhaps make the new figure of self-cycling not particularly effective against tax evasion and against those who use the money of illegal origin to make themselves the machine and the villa, without complex operations, aimed at masking the path of money. It remains that the villa and the mafiosi machine is still confiscated, even if it does not constitute a new crime in itself. Associating the return of capital and self-laundering is important because it is a deterrent to those who hesitate to return money from abroad. He's free from that crime today, not tomorrow. In favor of this legislative novelty in the House were PD, Civic Choice and New Right Centro. I would like to thank Minister Padoan and Deputy Minister Casero here, who have shown themselves very favorable and have strongly supported this measure. I have also taken note of the commendable efforts of Members of this House, Mr Sanga and Mr Causi, who have done a splendid job, together with my colleague Mr Ferranti and Mr Civati, Mr Mattiello and others. So today we are discussing the text approved in the House on 16 October. Colleagues, here in the Senate we hope to make soon, to get that money into the cover of the law of stability. I do not want to repeat what I have already supported in the Commissions meeting. I would like to make a special appeal to those groups that voted against in the House. I would ask you to reconsider: let us at least find convergence on the fight against the mafia and tax evasion! More could be done, one could be more resistant to the pressures of those who want to continue with the same games as before. But this is a good way to get in the way of those who want to continue to cross back and forth that sloppy boundary between lawful economy and criminal trafficking. Honestly, I've gotten tired of the quirks: we approve this law that allows to suppress serious criminal conduct that hinders the administration of justice and that the good people of this country have been waiting too long. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sciascia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is of great importance because it will allow taxpayers who have not properly fulfilled their tax obligations to rectify and correct their positions. The voluntary cooperation procedure will allow both taxpayers, natural persons, and legal persons, whether companies of persons or of capital, to declare now, ex novo, assets and assets unlawfully held abroad or - and this is an important aspect - to declare assets and activities held in Italy and never subject to taxation there for failure or unfaithful declaration for the purposes of both direct and part of indirect taxes. It is an extremely complex measure from the technical point of view, written in perfect bureaucrat. I shall confine myself here to a few remarks mainly on the matter which is most congenial to me. One brief notation on Article 3 which, as you know, establishes ex novo the crime of autocycling. I am not referring to the rule in question, which can be improved and which is already in place and in force in many European countries, particularly with a view to combating the use of money from crime, especially the most dangerous crime, that is to say organised crime. The problem is the psychological impact that Article 3 brings to the measure, a negative impact in my view. It is too important a stick compared to the proposed carrot. We could well introduce the crime of autocycling in one of the measures already being examined by the Justice Commission. The measure for assets and assets held in black list countries, first of all Switzerland where, according to reliable estimates, 85% of the total amount of foreign assets not declared by our fellow citizens, would be found, is too expensive. Taking into account the doubling of the verification times for the black list countries, also for the hypothesis of unfaithful or fraudulent declaration, for example, of 1,000 euros transferred in 2005 - for which it is still possible to ascertain today, always according to the provision that provides for the doubling of the terms and penalties for utility, goods or other, transferred to Black list countries - there will be an IRPEF tax of 675 euros, therefore there is no reduction of the rate, because the tax has been calculated with the maximum rate more or less than 45 percent, bearing in mind 43% as a maximum rate for the highest incomes and 2% between the additional regional and municipal, with penalties of about 300 euros, calculated to the minimum, for a total therefore of 1,059 euros, higher than the sum originally transferred. At this point a speech must be made: if the impact of this measure was to transfer not only money, since in the measure it is not necessary to physically transfer the money from the foreign country to Italy for the so-called legal return, but to attract these sums to taxation abroad, well you could opt for a flat rate that I could indicate from 30 to 35%, also taking into account that for the last, or penultimate, return of capital deliberated in Europe by Germany, a flat rate of 26,375 percent has been applied. No indication, then, of the possibility to deduct taxes paid abroad and of course resulting from suitable and incontrovertible documentation. All the conventions provide for the prohibition of double taxation on the same income and the recognition of the legitimate burden of the foreign State, for example on the proceeds obtained and subject to the euro-retention, constitutes a safe double exposure. It is true that Article 165, paragraph 8, of the single text of income taxes expressly provides for the indeducibility of taxes where they have not been paid or the declaration has not been made; but the declaration that is now presented for that time is certainly an effective remedy, which takes place the original declaration, so it is not clear why income should be subject to double taxation. Again, as far as the black list countries - first Switzerland - have doubled not only the deadlines for establishing them, but also the sanctions for income taxes alone. Such doubling, even in terms of verification, is eliminated, ex article 5-d, paragraph 7, last period, of the law n. 227 of 1990, as indicated by article 1 of the provision, provided, inter alia, that within sixty days of the approval of this measure the foreign State signs with Italy an agreement that allows the effective exchange of information. Bearing in mind that the penalty for failure to declare can reach almost 100 percent, it is easy to understand that this is a crucial point for the return of capital from the black list countries, since it is anchored to a fact independent of the taxpayer's will, and that at the present time it will not be able to have certainty of the tax burden and sanctions it imposes, except after having given rise to the procedure. Another important issue is the provision for nullity of the declaration, with additional penalties, in the case of statements (Article 5-f) which are not truthful. But quid iuris, if the documentation produced by the intermediary is incorrect or incomplete, certainly not by malice or gross negligence, and the taxpayer has already fulfilled all his obligations? It is appropriate to regulate this case with a special provision and therefore to clarify whether it will, as it seems, have the revocation of the procedure or it will be possible to supplement it. I'm gonna finish. Finally, as has also been pointed out in other parts, I have tabled some amendments, of a very technical nature and, in my view, modest improvements to the text for the tax side. The Government's response to the Commission's examination was that the text must be approved as it came from the House, without the changes that are or will be to be made (e.g. on the incomprehensible exclusion of inheritance tax and donation from the tax register for which so-called super-operative repentance is allowed). I cannot understand this haste, also because taxpayers, given what I said earlier about doubling the time limits, will in any case have to wait sixty days after the entry into force of the measure. I therefore feel that the imperative condition should not be sanctioned. The measure, for what may be of interest to me, must certainly be improved, but it is still not negative: it could probably be the last chance given to taxpayers who have not fully fulfilled. However, it does not seem entirely local to me to place it on such a heavy provision, which still exposes taxpayers to criminal arrows. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u90	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the return of capital and self-recycling finally arrives at our examination in this House after a difficult and perhaps too long course. The political will to complete this itinerary had to be manifested sooner and better. I do not want to make easy references and call for cheap consensus in those who listen to us. In the Rome investigation, the so-called Mafia Capital, if the magistrates could have had access to the case of self-recycling, which this measure introduces, could have challenged this crime and framed these criminals. What is self-recycling? It is the fact of those who, having committed or conspired to commit a crime that generates profits, reinvests or reuses those profits in order to hide their illicit origin. In our penal code today there is money laundering, but it does not apply to the person who committed or helped to commit the crime, which is the basis for the illicit profit. The re-utilisation of profits in paragraph 6 of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code also exists, but it is an aggravating and not an autonomous crime, which can be challenged regardless of the proof of the existence of the Mafia association. In our legislation there is also the so-called fictitious heading referred to in Article 12-d of Law No 306 of 1992, but this case is very restricted, because it refers only to goods which have a formal registration. On the other hand, to strengthen the fight against the mafias requires the tool of self-recycling, which allows to punish, on an autonomous basis, the re-introduction into the economic cycle of riches of illicit origin, but also allows to punish the concealment of lawful riches which, however, are removed from the tax and mixed with money of uncertain origin, regardless of whether the author of these facts has committed or helps to commit the basic crimes. To be able to punish these facts autonomously means, in investigative practice, to rely on longer prescription periods and higher penalties, which allow to keep in prison for longer mafias, corrupts, drug dealers and anything else. Some of the judiciary points out that more and better could be done; I agree, but compromises must be made in Parliament, especially when there are no clear majorities. I also want to say, from my experience in the local administrations of Liguria, that giving a concrete hand in the fight against 'ndrangheta is not a small thing even if, perhaps, on tax evasion this bill does not do so much. Personally, I hope that this bill will pass as it is, soon and well. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u92	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u93	Madam President, I would like to stress that we are faced with a measure by many, and above all by large sectors of the judiciary, invoked, a measure that brings back to memory the fiscal shield, which has raised so many and so many polemics, especially because of the lack of participation in the vote of some who could prevent that infamy. I am of the opinion, like the whole Movement, that certain sanctions of a criminal nature cannot and should not be condoned. I have heard of a criminal shield on the part of those who preceded me, which has been granted to those who will re-enter these capitals: perhaps, in a fast time, because there is still a need to provide, within the approval of the law of stability, capital that must be part of the lawful economy. However, I would like to ask all of us: if these capitals that are so much desired today and so much invoked are of illicit origin, do we not, as usual, make the typically Italian operation to relegitimize subjects that we should, on the contrary, penalise? A few years ago, Senator Albano referred to the judicial case that involved the Capitoline municipal administration and, in particular, the entire City Council of the city of Rome. If the magistrates, who have had the ability and the stubbornness to bring out these craps - let me say the term - had the opportunity to fight against the organized criminality that has infiltrated politics also having available what is innovated with Article 3, i.e. the case of the crime of autocycling, today they could ask for much more severe penalties for those who are guilty of behaviors that, as Senator Ricchiuti has said, are not simply aimed at damaging the heritage but are multi-offense. Whoever steals capital from the tax system of his country that must be granted to the same, exactly as US legislation requires, fails to the founding pact on which we stand together. We must put ourselves in the head that all those who are stain, not for survival logic but for logics of pure selfish profit, of serious behavior (such as tax evasion) must be pursued and penalized in an exemplary way. This measure introducing self-recycling does, however, by granting those who are actively repenting a kind of protection that, frankly from our point of view, cannot be accepted. This supports our position and ensures that we have an attitude of acceptance towards a norm that we have been waiting for since 2007, because it is from 2007 that we are asked by bodies that at international level promote the fight against self-recycling, but at the same time of extraordinary coldness because, as usual, we never punish those who must be punished and in the end, to save goats and cabbages, we go to increase the general taxation - it happens - on those who cannot escape even if they want to. You'll have to answer for that, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u94	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u95	Madam President, bill 1642 on the emergence and return of capital held abroad and on self-laundering is undoubtedly an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion and provides our legal system with a new instrument of contrast to one of the main detractors of balanced development in our country system, namely the illegal economy. Self-laundering, money laundering, tax evasion, corruption in its various ways of manifesting itself, economic crime poses a serious threat to the pre-eminence of law, democracy, fairness and social justice; it subtracts the state from important incoming resources to be allocated to growth, prevents economic development and strengthens territorial imbalances and social inequalities, pollutes competition between companies operating in legality, conditioning competitiveness and the clean economy. The International Conventions on combating economic crime, as set out in the proposals made by the various Commissions set up for the analysis of the phenomenon, place as fundamental principles in the fight against tax evasion and the illegal economy, the transparency of accounting and the transparency of financial flows (as in the case of the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe and the OECD Convention against Corruption), in the awareness that the implementation of many economic crimes presupposes, even before the money laundering, a false, fictitious accounting representation, such as to falsify its fulfilment. In this direction, Article 1 of the draft law regulates the voluntary cooperation procedure for the denunciation of financial and property assets constituted or held outside the national territory and for other tax violations, which can be activated by September 2015. This is therefore an important step towards transparency and the effective exchange of information and data between countries, which must be accompanied by more stringent international agreements and an unavoidable path of harmonisation of minimum tax-based legislation between the Member States of the European Union. In addition to providing for an increase in the financial penalties for Articles 648-a and 648-b of the Criminal Code, Article 3 introduces a significant amendment to the Code with the inclusion of the new case of self-cycling, which had often been reflected in the past on the basis of the very evolution of the criminal phenomenon. In particular, it was noted that the current cases of recycling and use (ex Articles 648-a and 648-b of the Criminal Code) are the product of the debate of the eighties, when the international community felt the need to combat the introduction of capital into the economy of criminal organizations that would destabilise the democratic and economic structures of the different countries. Since the 1990s a central role was then assumed by financial activities to clean up the so-called clandestine money, useful for operations such as corruption and market abuse. In our system, the process of privatisation of company law and the non-effectiveness of the punishable conduct of false social communications or asset infidelity have depowered the persecubility of such crimes. For this reason, as confirmed by the authoritative hearings held by the Commissions reunited 2a and 6a, the introduction of a new criminal case of self-laundering, for the identification of the origin of the illicit proceeds from pre-conditioned crimes, including tax evasion, was to be considered as inevitable. The criminality of mere self-employment is excluded from this case, while the penalty has increased when the facts are committed in the exercise of a banking, financial or in any case professional activity, while a reduction of penalty is foreseen for those who have effectively worked to ensure the evidence and for the identification of the proceeds of the crime. In the current framework, I recall that the recycling case did not include any of the above mentioned pipelines. It was therefore a question of eliminating a kind of privilege of impunity for the author of the presupposition. However, the objective difficulties, as some colleagues have already pointed out, of finding a case in the most important phenomena of recycling and in the correct formulation of the rule that would allow to exceed the limits of the ne bis in idem principle should be highlighted. In particular, the Financial Information Unit active at the Bank of Italy, confirming the need to introduce the self-laundering case in order to bring to light those 300 billion capital illegally held abroad, estimates that the suspicious operations of money laundering illicitly produced by corruption, evasion, organized crime, are about 74,000 this year, with a strong trend to annual growth. As the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority Raffaele Cantone has often argued, for a modern, effective and integrated policy of economic anti-criminality, it is necessary to continue the path with the strengthening of a number of other instruments, from useful preventive measures that go to hit the heritage to that of the enlarged confiscation (referred to in Article 12-e of Decree-Law No 306 of 1992), an adequate simplification of the management of the confiscated goods, but above all the reformulation of the decriminalized crime of false in the budget and the reform of the times and the organizational efficiency of the processes, because the ineffectiveness of the justice and the long time of ascertaining the truth risk to guarantee the impunity to the crime and the illegal economy. I'm gonna finish. Interrupting the vicious circuit of which all too often the chronicle gives us account, between corruption, evasion, fraud, organized crime, mafia infiltration and illegal economy, is a necessary condition for a cultural and valuable revival of the country, even before economic and social. A moral and ethical ransom for a country, ours, robbed by a parallel economic system that produces and lives of crime, that lives of social inequalities and creates strong territorial margins. In Italy we have many inequalities to fill, but a furrow instead to dig, that blocks and isolate the power of the illegal economy that wounds the social and economic-legal fabric: a cost that can steal us present and future and whose contrast requires new and redefined alliances to be put in place. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Maran]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u96	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech aims first of all to clarify the position of the North League on a measure on the return of capital, which we are debating today, which is very much felt within the Group for its implications not only in financial terms but also in political terms. Our aim, in fact, is to get out of these classrooms a regulation on the return of capital held abroad that is not condoning and aims concretely at a real and timely fight against tax evasion, that not only remains in the political intentions of this place but gives a concrete response. It is now known, for some time now, how recent signings of intergovernmental agreements, through increasing access and necessary exchange of data, tend to affect tax evasion on an international scale. Suffice it to think, in European context, of the strengthening of Directive No. 16 of 2011 on the exchange of information and Directive No. 24 of 2010 on assistance to collection and, in international context, the recent intergovernmental agreement between the Italian Government and the US, aimed at improving international tax compliance, as well as the application of the FATCA legislation, together with the signing, by our country, of numerous bilateral agreements for the exchange of information with low-tax countries. Therefore, today there are all the conditions, indeed the need to fill a legal gap in order to regulate the return of capital with payment of the previously evaded taxes, but this must be done according to two clear and defined criteria. The first criterion must be regulatory clarity, on which we do not want to make discounts, which must not leave room for interpretative doubts which would make it difficult to apply. The second criterion, fundamental, must be based on a reduction in the penalty, although taking into account the situation of illegality that the recipients of this measure have benefited, introducing advantages from the point of view of decriminalization. This is in order to encourage taxpayers to self-denial, without, however, making an unequal treatment compared to other taxpayers who are subject to verification on national territory, but above all - this is really important - with respect to taxpayers who regularly pay and have always paid taxes. This is a point on which the League wants to make a distinction. In this respect, it is considered appropriate to mention the procedure of this measure. At first, in fact, the provisions in question had been included in Article 1 of the Decree-Law of 28 January 2014, n. 4, but it was preferred to delete this article and resubmit it in the form of a legislative proposal: firstly, in view of the fact that it is Parliament that has to deal with legislation that has so important social and economic repercussions; secondly, in order to transpose a number of contributions from audit entities that had highlighted its criticalities and inconsistencies. Unfortunately, many of the points that emerged during the preparatory phase were not included in the text submitted by the majority and, on the part of my Group, it was tried to fill the gaps in the Commission's amendment, in which, unfortunately, all the amendments tabled were unsuccessful. The logic that has informed our interventions has been intermante prote in order to balance the position of the financial administration, whose aim is to ascertain possible violations and to commeasure the respective sanctions, with that of the taxpayers concerned, to which the legislation must recognize of the reductions, albeit not of condonistic style - on this we highlight our clarity - in order to foresee concrete instruments that can be an incentive to the adhesion to the voluntary disclosure. On the one hand, it did not seem appropriate to widen the mesh of this measure too much, so as not to make it an escapism for those who, up to now, have persisted in a situation of contributory illegality, bringing their capital abroad and evading the financial investigations, without forgetting of course the erarial damage that these subjects have produced anyway to the coffers of the State and also, of course, in respect of those - we want to reiterate - who have always paid taxes. In this regard, it would be better to reflect on the shortcomings that our system of control and verification for contributory purposes presents, if it is true that the amount of capital abroad is now around an estimated figure of between 180 and 200 billion euros, a significant figure, which reinforces the perception of how much there is still to work on the effectiveness and efficiency of the tax system in this country, where part of the taxpayers tries, by natural cultural inclination, to escape and where another part that, on the other hand, pays, is surmounted by an enormous amount of legislation ever more uncertain, by norms, controls and therefore by a bureaucracy farraginosa as well as of difficult understanding, obviously costly. I call on all of you to reflect on this and to ensure that this authoritative forum will soon, and finally, arrive at an effective resolution of the long-standing inefficiency of the entire financial administration sector, both with regard to the control system, which is clearly lacking, given the figures we are talking about only in this area, and with regard to tax evasion, for which you will all agree, I hope, that the high and unsustainable tax burden is the real one. On the other hand, of course, it has become necessary to operate in such a way as to make the instruments provided for in this measure conveniently, including in order to make them effective, so as to encourage taxpayers to denounce themselves. All this, with the aim of creating the least legal uncertainty possible to protect the two stakeholders: the financial administration, on the one hand, and the taxpayer, on the other. That is why we are tabling two of our amendments to Article 1, aimed at restricting the assessment to income tax alone which can be attributed to the person who makes use of the procedure. Always with the aim of making the rule clearer, we wanted to exclude the obligation in relation to the adherent of the reconstruction of the income deriving from the disposal or use of the financial assets held abroad. This is due to the objective difficulty to reconstruct the destination of the eventual withdrawals in the case, very likely, even if not sure, of undocumented expenses, not counting the ulterior complication generated by the subsequent payment of all, or part, of the sum taken in case the planned purchase had not gone well. Unfortunately, the majority did not agree with us. In line with the spirit of the bill, which in the second paragraph of the same Article 1 provides for the extension of the procedure of voluntary collaboration also to taxpayers other than those indicated by article 4, paragraph 1 of Decree-Law 167 of 1990, recipients of this legislation, we have submitted an amendment - unfortunately rejected - which provided for the possibility of joining the voluntary disclosure also for those taxpayers who have challenged the impositive and sanctioning acts issued by the Revenue Agency, provided that, however, payment is made of the sums due on the basis of the judgment passed in court, within twenty days of notification. On Article 3, our intervention - which has not been accepted - has also been informed by the bidirectional spirit of protection of the two interests at stake and of legal certainty: in order to guarantee benefits, we would have liked to include Article 4 of Decree-Law No 74 of 2000 among those for which criminality is excluded. This is because the boundaries with the unfaithful declaration, in Article 4 of the same decree, lend themselves to excessive discretion. In this way, it would have been avoided the risk that having joined the taxpayer's voluntary disclosure for a conduct that he had related to the unfaithful declaration, a different assessment of the financial administration could instead make that conduct fall back in a fraudulent declaration ex Article 3, with consequent criminal relevance. This is because we would have liked to remedy what we considered to be an exhilarating violation of Article 24 of the Constitution contained in the text proposed by the majority, ensuring fair judicial protection in the event that the claim by the financial administration is deemed by the taxpayer to be manifestly unfounded or erroneous. Finally, our last two interventions aimed at social finalization, in line with Article 41 of the Constitution, in order to allocate the revenue deriving from the implementation of the provisions of this measure also to the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, an important fabric of our economic system, so that those that are considered as measures against tax evasion can also be resolved in interventions of subsidies to our national enterprises that regularly pay due to the Erario and contribute to the formation of GDP, legally giving their economic and social contribution to the community. Finally - and I conclude - I recall the forecast of the relocation, in paragraph 9 of Article 1, of the redundant staff of public administrations, so that new recruitments are not carried out simply and blindly, without having first made provision to reposition the resources already available to the public administration, in a logic of non rationalization and not optimization of public expenditure, when it is now known that this necessity is now indispensable and binding for the work of every body or public administration, but above all for us who sit here. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out, the amendments have not been accepted. I therefore reserve the right to express at the moment of explanation of vote the reasons for our vote on the measure under consideration which, in advance, will be abstaining. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u98	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u99	Madam President, this measure was originally intended to bring back the capital held abroad, guaranteeing those who had denounced themselves, discounts on the financial penalties that should have been paid and their non-penalty for the crimes committed, thus not being sentenced to imprisonment, even though they had done something that could not be done. In fact, as a result of the changes introduced by the House on this measure, the procedure has also been extended to those who have committed breaches of income taxes, related additional taxes, replacement taxes, IRAPs, VAT and tax substitutes' declarations. This interpretation, which is not easy to deduce from the text - very difficult - and which is not explained by the dossier of the Study Service, has been clearly and unequivocally expressed during the hearing of the Director of the Revenue Agency, Dr Orlandi, where it has been stated that the procedure of voluntary collaboration becomes applicable both in cases where the declarative infidelities of a substantial nature are related to the activities constituted or held abroad, and in cases where the substantive violations have no connection with the activity abroad. Therefore, the entity that has among the institutional tasks also the control of the respect of the tax rules clearly and unequivocally states that the facilitation extends to all the taxpayers and not only to those who have committed tax offences related to the foreign activities. In other words, it is a pardon, except for the fact that very often the allowances made in the past also provided for a partial payment of the taxes due. In this case, however, taxes are paid in full, unless, at the request of the taxpayer for investments of less than EUR 2 million, the office calculates the yield in a flat rate manner. Voluntary collaboration functions as follows: the taxpayer self-denials and provides the Agency with all information and documents relating to investments and foreign financial activities, their amount, the income they have served to constitute them and any major taxable IRPEF, IRAP, substitute taxes, additional social security contributions, VAT and withholdings not related to income held abroad. It is good to clarify, however, that there are two different types of sanctions that the taxpayer will have to pay: a type of sanction for any tax evasion (tax evasion must be paid in full); a type of sanction for not having declared that you have investments abroad, i.e. for not having completed the RW framework of the tax return. As regards the first type of sanctions, first of all it must be said that minimum sanctions are reduced by a quarter compared to the minimum required by law, as stated in the first article 5-d, paragraph 5, last sentence. Moreover, again for this type of substantial violations, the Revenue Agency may issue an invitation to the taxpayer to appear, pursuant to article 5, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No 218 of 1997, but it is only a faculty and is not an obligation for the Revenue Agency. However, the invitation indicates the tax period, higher taxes, penalties and interest. The taxpayer may decide to pay immediately what is indicated in the notice, within 15 days before the date set for the appearance, with penalties reduced to one sixth. If, on the other hand, the taxpayer decides to present himself at the meeting with the Revenue Agency or if the Agency itself does not issue the invitation, but directly the notice of determination, the taxpayer may request the finding with membership, i.e. he can find an agreement with the office on the amount to be paid, which the taxpayer will have to pay within twenty days of the drafting of the agreement, with penalties reduced to a third party. With regard to the type of sanctions, those deriving from not having declared to own investments abroad, there is a discount instead so determined: to the extent equal to the half of the minimum provided by law (Article 5, paragraph 2, of decree-law no. 167 of 1990) and, that is, only 1.5%, instead of 3 to 15 percent of the amount of the amounts not declared, if the financial assets are transferred to Italy or to other countries of the EU or to other countries of the white list or if they are already there or if the taxpayer authorizes the financial intermediary of the country with which the financial assets are to provide to Italy all the relative data; the three quarters of the minimum provided for by law and, that is, 4.5%, instead of 6 to 30 percent, in cases other than those above and, that is, in the case of financial activities held in countries of the black list; the half of the minimum required by law and, that is, 3 percent, instead of 6 to 30 percent, in the cases of financial activities held in the countries of the black list if these countries within days from the entry into force of this agreement of Italy. The taxpayer will not be able to make use of the compensation and will have to pay what is due in a single instalment or in three monthly instalments of the same amount. Failure to pay a single installment will, of course, cause the whole procedure to fail. Since the procedure for imposing sanctions for non-declaration of foreign financial assets follows the procedure provided for in Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 472 of 1997, which provides that within the time limit for appeal the taxpayer may settle the dispute by paying a third of the sanction indicated, the penalties provided for above are further reduced: 1.5 becomes 0.5 and 4.5 becomes 1.5%. We therefore have a total reduction in all sanctions. With regard to taxation of returns from foreign investment hidden, where the average annual size of foreign financial assets is not more than EUR 2 million, at the request of the taxpayer, the returns are calculated, rather than analytically, with an assumed 5% return on stocks at the end of the year. The 27 percent rate will apply to the calculated returns. All this technicalism to say that the sanctions will be lower and that therefore we earn in this case too. I would also like to make a small point with regard to Article 3, which inserts the matter of self-recycling into the penal code. Of course it is a step forward: first in the penal code, self-recycling was not foreseen; now, with this provision we will have it. It is of course a very small and very first step and we cannot stop here; I know that there are those who will be very happy, given the speech I made yesterday in this House, but it is a small step and a signal that politics finally wants to do something. I hope that is not the usual sign of showcase because also the Financial Information Office (UIF) of the Bank of Italy tells us that if you do not follow the financial flows and if you do not urge all the operators who work in this sector to report the various financial flows that have anomalies it is useless that we do anything. It is obvious that this is a first step, a great first step that for now is only a showcase; let's make it real. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u101	Madam President, the measure that the Government wanted was approved without any modification to the one voted by the House could have had a real impact on our economy. For this reason, as a responsible opposition, we had only tabled a few amendments aimed at making the system functional, at finally guaranteeing the return of capital and at making the legislation in this area so that, if the famous interlocations with Switzerland were to take place for the emergence of those who have deposits abroad, we could have had an overall system of effective emergence. We cannot understand why the government, having greater possibilities, has chosen the path of a measure that, at this point, appears only electoral propaganda, since it will hardly have the economic consequences that everyone promised to have. The Deputy Minister knows better than me that some amendments had their justification not only from the point of view of justice (and therefore of criminal law), but also from the point of view of the competence of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For example, as Senator Sciascia pointed out, it is not possible to understand why, after an almost pedissequa, exhaustive listing, Article 5c of Decree-Law No 167 of 1990, of which are the taxes and violations that can be cured through the declaration of voluntary collaboration, the violations in relation to taxes of donation and succession are excluded, exclusion that has no justification. So when, on the basis of this measure, we expect that, following voluntary cooperation, tax offences, for example, in connection with tax evasion, the only non-tax return, will you realize that this rule as it is written will make voluntary cooperation completely unworkable? In practice, in fact, and the Deputy Minister teaches me this for his professional experience, for his skills and for the activity of his Ministry, normally and necessarily, to a hypothesis of non-statement corresponds a non-notation in the writings for those who have entrepreneurial and corporate activities. I wonder then how it is possible to think that a person uses voluntary collaboration, obtains non-penalty and exclusion from administrative sanctions, pays all taxes, but then in fact is exposed to criminal proceedings for the hypotheses referred to in Articles 2641 and 2642 of the Civil Code. That's crazy! It was necessary to identify only those offences under Articles 2641 and 2642 which were related, in accordance with Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, inter alia, determines the unity of criminal proceedings and the possible shift of jurisdiction. At that point, we would have had an effective indication to the taxpayer: return, bring the capital to Italy and, because we need it right now, we will do you a minimum of favor and you will pay the taxes. That citizen will have to say: Not only will I do all this, but I will be subject to criminal proceedings by denouncing myself. I do not think there is a need to have knowledge of law or society, to realize that no one will. There is a general principle, which dates back to the time of Roman law: nemo tenetur se detegere. No one can think of having to denounce himself in order to guarantee the return of capital to our country. Even from the point of view of the crime of self-cycling there are different indications and ideas, because self-cycling is not new. The doctrinal debate by criminal law experts and the work of the committees chaired by Greco and Garofoli guarantee the possibility of assessing what self-recycling is and how to sanction it. We would have tabled a number of different amendments. With self-recycling a new crime is introduced, which follows the pre-conditioned crime; this means that a person, already convicted of the pre-conditioned crime, will receive a further sentence for the re-employment offence. I ask a question: have they all read what the various authors and ministerial committees have written? Self-recycling must be limited to be effective, because if it is not limited, it becomes an abnormal thing. Let me give you an example: if, by hypothesis, a person commits a jewelry theft, in order to receive one or two million euros from a fencer, he will be sentenced to three years for the theft and to eight or twelve years (according to some indications) for the crime of autocycling. There's an imbalance. All scholars of the subject have indicated two possible solutions. The first is to limit pre-conditions; I am thinking, for example, of corruption, concussion and other economic crimes, which can result in self-recycling. The second solution is to limit downstream, in the sense of indicating only financial and speculative assets, not those of mere economic investment. All this, however, is not there, because it was chosen to predict the crime of autocycling for all the criminals assumptions (even for those Bagatellari) and, on the other hand, the range of all the hypotheses downstream has widened. Here too we have shown our responsibility by tabling a number of amendments to make this crime consistent with the discipline and interpretations that have been received by the ministerial committees and the committee to the President of the Council, but also from the same indications as the authors. I would like to remind the Government - but essentially I would like to remind all of us - that we have held a series of hearings of university professors and representatives of Banca Italia. I am surprised that some political groups still ignore what both the professors of criminal law and the Bank of Italy have said. On the contrary, we have limited ourselves to considering the observations of the Bank of Italy, because we thought that there was the possibility of discussing without going to reconstruct the overall hypothesis of self-recycling, but eliminating only those elements of misunderstanding reported by both. The professors of criminal law have pointed out to us, for example, the possibility that the alleged crime is extinct. In this case, what do we do? The possibility of self-recycling is left open for life and there is no chance that it will be stopped over time? We believe that these indications should be taken into account, otherwise you have to explain to me what is the responsibility of a Member who wants to be consistent with the vote obtained by the citizens. What is the consistency? I call for hearings, for listening, and for correct comments from the point of view of legislative technique, I cannot fail to take this into account. And those who don't take it into account are merely propaganda activities. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] In the face of such a situation, I wonder how these elements can not be taken into account, especially if the Bank of Italy tells us to pay attention because there are misunderstandings that need to be corrected. And we have only proposed this correction. But in the face of this request, you say to us: 'no, let us put it to the vote'. Last night we also saw a pantomime of different groups calling on them to vote on the proposals and then discuss them again. But we are a Parliament, not a meeting of friends who make laws or introduce crimes on the assumption of correcting them the next day. The principle of legality, the respect of the State is based on a fundamental fact: the rules must be clear, especially in the area of criminal law, even if the principle applies to all rights, civil and others. Therefore, once a decision has been taken, it must have the possibility of being internalized by each citizen. In the face of this we have not understood - Mr Vice-Minister, it is the only explanation that we give ourselves - the mere desire for publicity, that is, the desire to say that we have approved a measure, even if it does not work. The wish to say: we are still good, we have introduced the possibility of the return of capital from abroad. But if this is not followed by an effective return activity, the measure is of no use. This measure could have allowed a resumption of our country's economic activity if it had actually allowed the emergence of those who worked in lawlessness. We - and that is the reason for the introduction of this crime in this measure - must ensure that these capitals emerge, otherwise there will be certain criminal consequences. We agree on that. But in the face of this overall assessment, the system does not stand up if it is also responsible for corporate crimes. I wonder why this hypothesis is being carried out and whether it is based on the hope that only the agreement with Switzerland will determine the emergence. But, Mr Vice-Minister, you are aware of what I am saying and, even then, despite the agreement with Switzerland, if these rules remain in force, there will be no emergence. Personally, I hope that all citizens will want to return to legality, but to get them back into a legal system and avoid what has happened for years we need to do something else. For decades we have been proposing to re-enter capital from abroad, we have been saying that we must put an end to a system that has so far closed an eye to illegality, also thanks to countries that guaranteed this system; but if we have entered into a necessary interlocation with those countries, this must lead to the emergence of names, as happened in America, England and Germany, and to examine those same capacities of influence. It took very little to do this. It took a week of time, with a minimum of caution on the part of everyone to achieve a result, not another ad contrary to the rules. Even with regard to self-recycling, those who only wanted to increase their penalties, or modify or attempt to transform that crime in relation to the indications of criminal doctrine, do not realize that, in fact, this means increasing the system of illegality. To introduce that type of self-cycling would mean not to emerge, to keep the occult, which, on the other hand, we have to oppose. With regard to this situation, therefore, I just have to take note, not with dissatisfaction, but with bitterness, that a possibility of joint evaluation, a possibility of common implementation of some rules that could make the measure effective was rejected, as usual, by the will of the majority not to miss the opportunity to show that by a certain date, like all the things we are witnessing in our country, the measure will be voted, regardless of the goodness or not of the text that is voted on. For this reason, I hope, but I believe, that the Government will want to change its mind and give a favourable opinion at least to some of the amendments that would make the measure effective. If by chance, however, as I think, the opinion will still be against all the amendments, or perhaps there will be an invitation to withdraw, I will only be able to vote against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u102	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u103	Madam President, I rise to stress the importance of the draft law that we are about to adopt, I hope definitively, not only because it deals, I think, with the emergence and return of foreign capital following a different path from that which others have travelled in previous years, namely that of condones, but because it introduces, as has already been mentioned, the crime of self-cycling. Often in recent years, in this House, in the public debate and in so many speeches by magistrates dealing with the fight against organised crime, it has rightly been stressed the absence of a specific rule against self-recycling that punishes self-recycling itself. The absence of such a rule today is a problem. We have discussed in recent years how the absence of such a crime has reduced the possibility for the state to combat mafias and organised crime more effectively and how it has made it more difficult and less effective to attack the assets of criminal organisations. But above all, the absence of a specific crime of self-laundering has limited the possibility of preventing so much money, the result of illicit gains, penetrate and pollute the economy and businesses of this country. When we put this question, we are putting a big problem which is not only about combating crime, but also about a democratic problem. In fact, the huge masses of money, the billions of euros that are recycled in the legal economy, I believe that they constitute a problem for the democracy of this country because a piece of the Italian economy, polluted and in the hands of organized crime, becomes a problem. With this rule we introduce the crime of self-cycling that is punished, I mean for clarity, with a penalty that provides for two to eight years or one to four years in prison depending on the severity of the main crime. And it punishes those who invest money that comes from illicit proceeds (money from illegal activities) in economic, financial or business activities. Without prejudice to self-consumption, it will be possible from tomorrow not only to punish those who recycle on behalf of others, but also to punish those who invest the illicit proceeds directly. I think this is an objective and important fact. Of course, some things need to be clarified. I have tabled an agenda, which, I believe, has been approved in the Commission, to make it clear that the introduction of this new crime should not be interpreted as a reduction in the seriousness of the fictitious header crime to others of their own property, even in the event of improper use of goods resulting from illegal activities. Once this is clear, today we are filling a gap: we are introducing a crime envisaged by most European systems and we are also giving an additional instrument to those who investigate organized crime on a daily basis; we are giving judges an additional instrument. What an electoral measure! We are voting on one important thing today: let us give one more instrument to fight the mafias. I don't think that's to be underestimated. In the coming months, in the debate that will open to the Senate on the reform of the anti-mafia code, it will be possible to improve the effectiveness of this measure, building on the work that has been done in the anti-mafia Commission, the hearings that have been held there and the work of the Commissions; but today we introduce - I repeat - an important instrument. I hope that this is recognised by those who have rightly attributed in recent months the need to introduce the crime of self-cycling a significant value to demonstrate the will to combat organised crime. I think it is wrong to reduce the importance of this passage, as I have heard today. I think it's wrong. In fact, today we adopt this law as it is and, as we have done by approving Article 416b, we show that this Parliament, together with the Government, has the will to fight crime forcefully. The facts of these hours - the Rome inquiry - show us that there is an aggressive crime, that wants to attack the economy, that tries to pollute society, enterprise and politics. I think that in the face of this we must give - and today's vote on the introduction of this new crime goes in this direction - a clear sign all together, showing that this is a priority: the fight against crime is a priority for this country, for this Parliament and in the face of this we cannot and must not give discounts to anyone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u104	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u105	Madam President, let us start from the words contained in the title of the bill: "enhancing the fight against tax evasion" and from the concept of introducing a new crime, self-recycling. Before entering into the substance of the contents of this bill, I believe that a general reflection is required. There is something in our country, an invincible tendency to consider the rules as a burden and not as a guarantee for everyone. There is even a kind of pleasure in inventing new ways of circumventing the rules or even bending them imaginatively to their contingent need, a sort of declination of the well-known Italian creativity. This cheerful relationship with the rules has a widespread spread, because it is part of a costume. It goes through everyday life, and its pervasive being is profoundly dangerous. The danger lies in the fact that the natural path is then the indifference, the loss of mutual control, what in ancient civilizations was called culture of shame, that invincible moral conviction for which, even before the concern of being punished by the State, one is concerned about his own honor in front of the community. It is that invincible conviction that drives Hector to clash with Achilles and to give up his life just because it is his duty to respect the rule, so he does not yield even to the most loved affections in order not to incur the shame of having failed to his duty as defender of the city. This is the real point: the sense of belonging to a community. The story of our country is strange. We have elements that make us united and divided at the same time. We're kind of an oxymoron. We celebrated the Unity of Italy and are far from having acquired its value. In this way the idea of duty towards a community is blurred and lost, an idea that we obviously do not touch with our hands. And, consequently, we feel no shame in breaking the rules of this community. To contribute to state spending through taxation is a duty. There are sanctions for those who do not fulfill it. Yet those who escape are not ashamed, in the name of a defence from a tyrant state, of a sort of Sheriff of Nottingham, who plunders the fruit of his work. Of course, no one then thinks of giving up the right to enjoy services such as roads, schools, health and justice. It is true, of course, that taxation in our country is high and it is also true that public money (and it is the subject of a continuous chronicle) is wasted and often stolen precisely by those who should spend it with a greater care than if it were their own money. But it is also true that we are always, and in any case, the same people who escape wildly and who is to the honour of the chronicles for climbing to the top places of the ranking of the most corrupt countries. We all agree that this is a cultural problem. Usually, when we no longer know what to do and how to deal with problems, we invoke the excuse of school, of education, forgetting that the first education is the example and that the first to have the duty of example is the State. What example do we set with this bill? We call it a measure to fight tax evasion, but we wink at those who escaped. And let's not talk about the poor guy breaking out of the bathroom hose repair. We are talking about capital going to Switzerland or tax havens. What do we propose for these? We create them a preferential lane for the return of their money and, in addition, add the decriminalization of related crimes. And they're all there, as has been said. It has been said in this House that it is not a pardon, because sanctions are being applied. However, it is not said that they are applied to an extent that is even reduced in relation to the minimum time limits. And this is true for all violations: income taxes, all related additional taxes, substitute taxes, IRAP, VAT and all those taxes that make the honest taxpayer tremble. It's a bit like saying, to those who pay all these taxes regularly, who are fools. In current legislation, sanctions have doubled if capital is illegally held in so-called tax havens. In this text, however, there is the possibility that the countries of the black list will be treated as those that have already signed agreements for the exchange of information. In our legislation there are five-year time limits for verification, but these time limits are doubled if a crime is hidden under these rules. Here the doubling to 10 years is not applied but, in fact, sanctions that should cover 10 years will cover half of this time. Then we have the possibility of a flat-rate and non-analytical calculation, with the maximum limit of EUR 2 million and with tax rates of 27 percent. When I pointed out, in the hearings, that 27% is a shameful rate compared with the marginal rates that a normal citizen sees applied to the fruit of his work, I was told that this is already a high rate and that, on the contrary, it should be lowered to make the procedure more appealing. Otherwise, who makes him do it? That is the point: but those who make them bring back their capitals when they are resting to enjoy their capital abroad! And let's get to the next point, the one on the introduction of the autocycling crime. We are offered the triumphant declaration that the value of the bill is represented by the introduction of this crime (it was also said a while ago). In fact, this crime could, should have, been introduced for quite some time now if it had not been restrained, slowed down, scheduled and removed that bill that provided for it along with others. Frankly, there is a doubt. The doubt arises that it has not yet been approved to be able to insert here as a sugar for a bitter pill, or as a useful tool to make a distorted communication by concealing truths behind great lies. Because it is a lie to say that we are now finally creating the tool to pursue self-recycling because Article 3 is badly written and contains traps that instead of paving the way for the judiciary, will make it even more difficult for them to work. And it's written wrong not out of malice or an oversight, but for a precise choice, because in reality there are committees that have worked on it, that have spoken. Amendments have been tabled which could make clear and useful changes to this text. Do you think they'll be approved? No! They weren't approved yesterday. The government is committed to receiving them and is committed to them for a long time, but we see few results. But there is more and in this case we really reach the fourth dimension. The crime of autocycling is introduced but, always to make the process of voluntary collaboration appealing, it is decriminalized for the heroes who will denounce themselves. But these heroes aren't idiots. They know that they are not punishable by a crime that does not exist, so we must give them time to commit a crime and then make it interesting for them not to be punishable so they will have time, from the entry into force of the law until 30 September 2015, to autocycle the money they have deposited abroad illegally by the end of September 2014 and not be punishable for this crime. Beautiful! But the good thing is that from all the words we have heard in this House it emerges that there is discontent over the assumption that this measure is actually not really effective and that with this voluntary cooperation procedure many less than we think will be able to access it today, or rather they will want to access it. Therefore, not all of those around 180, 200 billion euros illegally held abroad will be made clear. So, what's the point of this bill? The point is the need to have money. The problem is that this money already belongs to our country, it is a money that has been illegally stolen from our country. At this point, since the measure can bring much less than you would like, I would like to make a real and profound reflection: have we calculated how much we lose in terms of education to respect the rules? Have we calculated that every time we do such an operation we lose ground in building the sense of the community, the sense of responsibility, the sense of honor that every citizen should have towards the defense of his city? Have we calculated how we paved the way to a hell worse than what we have before our eyes? Have we calculated all this? What responsibility do we have in dealing with this? This is the question that weighs today on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u106	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u107	Madam President, the measure we are debating today is a nice warm cloth. In fact, we could not define in any other way a measure that should intervene on something, but that basically does not intervene on anything. Surely they had the most substantial attributes those who sit in the right side of the hemicycle because, when they made the famous four tax shields, at least they said: we do a nice cleanup, we place a nice provision with which you can illegally bring everything back and we also give you the cover of anonymity! Nice, clear, clean. Instead, this stuff is neither meat nor fish, it's a half-bang, a thing without energy, without strength, without ever taking decisive reins of what you should do. It is the usual hot cloth of this government pierced in this House where everything appears and nothing is done. That's what happens, just... [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] , to explain it to those who are out of here. There have been many speeches which have explained this in detail and in substance. When the first measure for the return of capital from abroad was launched by this House, in 2001, with the Berlusconi Government, it was said: you bring the capital back to us and pay only 2.5%. Ah, what a satisfaction! Who had brought the capital out, abroad, could bring them back to Italy paying a minimum tax. I almost think about it and bring it back. At the same time, if I remember correctly, correct me if I am wrong, it happened that Germany made a similar measure in which it told its citizens that, instead of paying 2.5% as was done in Italy, 25% was paid. Maybe Germany was better than us in this case? Maybe they did a more meritorious thing? I don't know, it always sucks, because, as someone quite rightly said before me, it's a matter of education. On the other hand, it would be enough to reread the Constitution a little bit. Article 53 states that all citizens are required to contribute to public expenditure on account of their contribution capacity. And Article 54: "All citizens have a duty to be faithful to the Republic and to observe its Constitution and laws." Damn it! And if we say that the laws can not respect them because in the end, what do you care, we make a nice pardon? But I say: at least if we want to make a pardon, Let's do it. Of course, we cannot agree at all. But the problem is always that: don't have the strength and energy to say: we want to forfeit this money for which we make a pardon. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are told that we return to Italy from two to four billion. This money comes back, two to four billion? We have doubts. We are told that we are inserting the crime of autocycling, but this is another time a hot cloth, a crap. In the Committee on Justice we are discussing a text that has been well done and we can say that we have done self-recycling. Actually, we didn't do anything. We didn't do a pipe. Then it's about taking the reins, but Parliament's not the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would always like to reiterate this: the Government does our will and that's it! And when they start doing that, maybe we can talk about it, but that's never gonna happen. Parliament takes strength and decides to make clear, concrete, clean actions, and not always this crap. How can we approve such a thing? I think it's really crazy. We have already said that changes have been made to the House so that, as well as on capital abroad, we also put a piece of money on the capitals that are in Italy. But, you know, a little dignity, a little pride, a little excitement doesn't come to you? If it doesn't come to you, we get so strong that we almost throw up. This would be about having some energy. When are we gonna get this energy out? When do we have the strength? [[The microphone flashes]] The microphone's blinking, but I told you what I had to say. It's about having the ability to decide what we want to do with this country. Do we want to educate the law? Well, let's make sure that those who export capital abroad and self-launderers, who are the powerful, not the normal people... Because normal people don't do these things, they don't do them, they can't even do them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As usual, instead of hitting the powerful and kicking him hard and heavy, we put on his diaper and we go hit that poor christ who maybe didn't ask for the coffee receipt. I mean, are we gonna wake up or what? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Cardinal Senators and Cirinna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u108	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u109	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when the measure arrived in Commissions 2nd and 5th, it was noted that we needed to proceed quickly. Despite one of the rapporteurs themselves at that time in the election campaign for the regional elections, we tried to prepare a series of hearings to deal with the measure as quickly as possible, but concretely. Teachers, representatives of the Bank of Italy and the Revenue Agency (the Director-General) were audited. Basically, we tried to do things quickly, but seriously, and everyone tried to make their contribution. Suddenly, however, the majority, in agreement with the Government, decided, despite having found some anomalies, shortcomings and deficiencies, that it was still necessary to proceed. This morning, the rapporteurs, Mr Moscardelli and Mr D'Ascola, have set a record in the synthesis of their relations, not because they are incapable people who do not know the subject, but because they had been forced to work quickly to complete the process of the measure. Colleagues Caliendo and Sciascia (but above all the latter for the part of the measure that interests me most, that is, the one relating to the return of capital from abroad) have explained technically that, through some modifications, the bill could have been incisive. In fact, given that the international context and the fight against the countries enrolled in the black list is producing results and that for those who have capital abroad life is becoming very difficult, with the possibility of suffering sanctions these conditions represented an incentive to bring back capital to Italy. Frankly, we do not understand why some amendments, which are the result of the contribution made by the hearings of unwritten persons - I repeat - of representatives of the Bank of Italy and the Revenue Agency, cannot be taken into account. This morning, one of the rapporteurs said that the budget session was due. But if we were to adopt some improvements today, we would not create any problems in the House of Deputies, which is not currently in the budget session, because the ball is in the hands of the Senate, as the President will soon announce us. The truth is that we do not want to do this, and we regret this. This measure could have a wider consensus than it will have in the afternoon. It could have been more incisive. It could actually allow for compliance with the revenue forecasts of two or three billion capital. On the contrary, we fear that it will not produce the effects that it expected, at least - I repeat - for the part concerning the question of the return of capital from abroad. That is why we think this is not a logical way. As Senator Caliendo said - and I repeat this - it is frankly extravagant to say that we now approve a measure - among other things it is not a decree-law and, therefore, it does not have a time-limit - and then we will perhaps adopt another measure of the rules that can improve it because those contained in the draft law under consideration are insufficient. But if we have the capacity that something can be improved, we have to do it now. But, actually, gentlemen, you don't want to do that. We are opposed, but we always show that we are reasonable and that we work in a spirit of cooperation. Frankly, in this case, it seems to us that the Government and the majority have a obstructive attitude of which they do not realize. We think that they do not do good to the country, because in reality the measure will probably be finally passed today a law that will produce less positive effects for the Italian economy than it could have produced. For this reason, we regret it. We always hope that in the afternoon there will be an act of repentance. We have retabled the amendments proposed in the Commission, which have had an airtight closure there. If there were a repentance in this period of time that separates us from approval, we would be delighted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u110	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u111	Madam President, when we are dealing with such a sensitive issue as the return of capital held abroad, caution must be exercised. It is a subject that requires a very serious and rigorous approach, because it is true that behind the capitals that go abroad hide the worst nefariousness of a country and hides a poor culture of legality, but there are also full-bodied interests from the mob organizations and so also from those in our country who are dedicated to corruption. Nor should it be overlooked that the same affair linked to tax evasion can no longer be, as happens in other countries, minimized, indeed it must be perceived as a serious economic and social event that asks the institutions for maximum severity. That is why we have approached the issue of the return of capital first by giving a full and absolute guarantee: that the return of capital is not yet another pardon, it is not yet another fiscal shield. I'm sorry for who was waiting for this opportunity to report and point the finger. We would have made the country pay a very high price, even in social terms, to the new generations, to healthy businesses, to honest citizens; and then, attention, even if we wanted - and so thank God it was not - yet another, classic fiscal shield, the international community would not have allowed us anymore, because in countries where it was chosen to promote the return of capital, certainly it has not proceeded as the governments of center-right and today we ask for the maximum severity. That is why there has been no condone: because the country must mature the awareness of the need to take another path, that of legality and development, and because we want to be in the international community not as a problem, but as a resource. It was well done not to foresee any tax and tax discount: those who brought capital abroad must bring them back to Italy and must pay everything they have to do for having done illegal action. Of course, there are two ethical issues on the scale. The first, simple to dissolve, is that it is not ethically correct to bring these capitals abroad, and on this the judgment should be unanimous. But there is another ethical theme that is just as serious: is it legitimate, is it morally correct to leave these capitals abroad and not recall them in our country in order to contribute to the public recovery and the possibility of a growth of our country? I believe that this aspect must also be evaluated, without interruptions and without compromises. I believe that even from the ethical point of view the choice of the most rigorous and most difficult way of responsibility can be justified, demanding that these capitals should be included before the Agreement with Switzerland itself in 2018 forces us to reveal the names. We have also discussed a great deal, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of self-recycling. Months ago in the Justice Commission in the Senate, we were on the verge of reaching a solution that would include the crime of autocycling in our system, in our codes. We are a state-of-the-art country in the fight against mafias, but we are the taillight for not having yet foreseen self-recycling as an autonomous crime. It is true - in doctrine much has been discussed - that we have a legal tradition that also imposes on self-recycling much caution, but attention: in a globalized society, in which the mafia themselves have globalized, closing our eyes on the fact that self-recycling is an integral part of recycling means being foolishly conservative and morally incapable of leading an unprecedented challenge against the mafia; it means being a weak country, which gives in, a country - alas - in which a part of the economy and the institutions themselves collusion, as the facts of Rome have shown us. That is why it is important to confront each other, and that is why we have proposed a solution, which we have turned into an agenda, which will help us to overcome the technical and legal difficulties which have also been mentioned here this morning. It is a solution capable of keeping recycling and self-cycling together, capable of striking with great severity and rigour the true recycling and the real self-cycling and also capable of not confusing them with the small use. This is a solution that we do not give up. We have spoken with the Government; we are ready to work in the next few weeks in the Justice Commission to correct and improve the self-recycling part. I think that as a Democratic Party we have served our country in this way, doing our duty and improving our system, without accepting any compromise, but making sure that we are as serious and effective as other countries on the issue of the return of capital. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u112	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u113	I call the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u114	Madam President, I will focus in particular on the question of self-recycling, leaving aside the more general aspect of the return of capital from abroad. However, it does not seem to me - I certainly would not want to make a mistake and, if I am wrong, I would ask you to correct me - that critical indications have emerged on the text about the crime of self-cycling; indeed, I am very pleased that some of the aspects (among other things dogmatic, but still useful for further clarification) have been highlighted in particular in some of the speeches, including the one relating to the multi-offensive nature of this crime. The crime of self-laundering, in fact, is not only a crime against the heritage, whose sanction has a strong vocation to guarantee equal opportunities between entrepreneurs, indeed, preventing on this side dishonest entrepreneurs, that is, those who enjoy proceeds of illegal activities, from being able to have conditions of greater favor than those who are forced, instead, to resort to credit; it is also a crime against the administration of justice, in the part where it valorizes the conduct of concealment aimed at hindering the determination of the origin. So, if that is the prevailing content of the debate, I think it has served to highlight more favourable aspects of the discipline that we are going to vote on. With these considerations, I would like to conclude my reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u115	Madam President, I would like to point out that, as was the case in the Commission in this debate, certain elements of difficulty and criticality, also shared as rapporteurs, have emerged; they have been mentioned in the speeches of some Members. However, we reiterate the fact that we are in such a condition that the problem is not so much, Mr Carraro, if we can make some improvements today, which we have also shared in the debate and which have emerged in the course of the hearings. When we begin the budget session, if we amended the measure and the House would also make some changes, we would lose the opportunity to approve the measure by 31 December. We do this in the awareness and conviction that the measure overall maintains effectiveness despite the critical elements underlined. I would like to reiterate a few points: it would not be necessary, but I see that unfortunately we insist on representing this measure by some in a totally foreign way, different from the text that the Senate is called to approve; there are a whole series of assessments and judgments that I leave to those who have expressed them because they have nothing to do with the measure that we approve. It provides for a transparent and nominative procedure; there are no discounts, you pay taxes in full; and you introduce an important crime figure such as self-money laundering. Therefore, it is an absolutely positive sign compared to the national community.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u116	I call the representative of the Government, State Secretary for Justice, Ferri.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u117	Madam President, I want to clarify something important that has also been said and repeated by the rapporteurs and in various speeches: the measure will not be a pardon. It is good to stress this because there are two aspects that have an importance also from a legal point of view: the self-denunciation will not be anonymous and, moreover, you will have to pay all the tax evaded. This is always good to emphasize so that we do not get confused and talk about condon when it is not. I say another thing before I get back to the point that concerns the Dicastery of Justice: those who will not take advantage of this window that the State makes available to get in line with the tax paying all the tax evaded and in part the sanctions will risk being prosecuted later on for the crime of autocycling. This is precisely because it is essential to include this crime in the measure because it is the only effective mechanism to induce those who want to take advantage of this window. In fact, as the legislation has been structured, an effective mechanism is inserted to stimulate a greater number of people who have illegally brought foreign capital to bring them back to Italy. Those who bring the capital back to Italy will therefore have to pay the taxes that they have paid and in part the financial penalties, but will get the non punishable for the tax crimes and those related to the illegal export abroad, as well as for the new crime of autocycling. Without these rules, the measure would be without concrete results and would not be able to achieve the aim, which is the aim of the legislation, of bringing back huge capital into Italy. It is therefore inevitable to include the rule on self-recycling, to say that, if you do not use the window provided for in the measure, in future for these hypotheses there will be a new serious crime, that was missing in our order and that it is fundamental to have been inserted. On the other hand, in relation to the new crime is guaranteed the non-penalty for those who use the window, otherwise no one would return capital from abroad and our legislation would remain tamquam non esset. That is something that needs to be emphasized. However, the Government and above all the Dicastery of Justice take into account the points highlighted, last but not least by Senator Lumia, and we would like to recall the so-called bill on economic crime, which has arrived in the Senate and is under discussion in the Justice Commission and on which we have been confronted in the past. In the course of the examination of that bill, in which several important rules are inserted regarding the confiscation of assets and judicial control on companies close to criminal associations, we will have the opportunity to refine the case of self-recycling, which is essential to include in the measure to our examination but which can remain open and be cleaned of the imperfections and critical issues that emerged in the course of the discussion, which can be re-evaluated in that forum. The position of the Ministry of Justice is therefore to move forward today in the examination of the text to our attention, while maintaining a constructive confrontation in the Justice Commission to improve it. Of course, from a legal point of view, we must avoid punishing a person twice for the same fact and therefore punishing acts of mere enjoyment of the origin of a crime or sanctioning as a self-cycling those situations in which the perpetrator of a malicious crime uses the origin of that crime, instead of punishing those who use these investments for speculative purposes by polluting economic crime. On this point, which is important because we think it is essential to avoid double standards which would not then pass to the Constitutional Court, there will certainly be a comparison. However, the improvement proposals are welcome and in this sense I renew the availability of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Casero.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u118	Madam President, I have listened with great interest to the debate that has taken place these days in the Commission and today in this House. I must start with a thank you to all the senators for having understood the necessity represented by the Government to approve this measure in a short time, so that I can respond to some international requests and needs that I will then go and explain. This has led to an intense, but very short-lived, debate, which has therefore been compressed both in the Commission and in this House. Having said that, the measure is part of the perspective of a more comprehensive action of fiscal policy and the fight against evasion that our country is carrying out in European and international. It has been recognised, also in the OECD, that Italian proposals (which have often been transposed) and of five other European countries can become a decisive element in overcoming the situation that exists at this time in the world economy (remember that we are in an economically globalised world) in which some countries have not yet transposed - they will do so in the coming years - transparency agreements in financial relations between the countries themselves. You understand very well that, in a globalised economy, it is very complex to wage a fight against evasion if there are those who are considered black holes within the system of countries. These countries do not guarantee the transparency of financial transactions and therefore allow the escape to end up in these countries and not be able to be affected. From this point of view, there is action in the OECD which is giving a number of positive results. The latest agreements reached, both in the G20 and in the OECD, will allow in 2018 many other countries to be included in these financial transparency reports and to get out of the black list and will allow those who do fiscal verification action to be able to access the accounts present in these countries and therefore to carry out an action definitely more profitable. In this overall context, which is an evolving framework for fiscal policy and the fight against evasion, this measure is also included. It is not a pardon (as has been said by many), but a measure that respects exactly what has been demanded at international level (in the OECD), so much so that it has been recognized by the OECD and the countries as a measure to be implemented. It is not a pardon, because it tends, from an administrative point of view, does not give any advantage to those who participate in a voluntary way in the pardon itself. All taxes are paid and sanctions are paid; no less sanctions are paid than those that would be paid if a person were established without such a measure. I have heard, in the course of the debate, criticism of the lack of appeal for this measure. Senator Sciascia said that in some cases it would come to pay sanctions so high that it would make it virtually impossible to return. It is therefore a measure which does not grant administrative discounts. Nor does it grant anonymity, which is the typical value of a pardon; the provision is transparent. On the other hand, it excludes criminal sanctions for those participating in voluntary disclosure, i.e. the voluntary return of capital. The measure is characterised by transparency. Unlike a pardon, I said, it does not provide for anonymity. Those who participate in this voluntary return of capital must confront the Agency and bring to it all the documents related to their own export of currency and that have allowed it to export the currency itself. This action will determine the level of sanctions that will be linked to this type of operation. I would like to make a joke about some considerations regarding the fact that I have excluded some corporate crimes from this elimination. The very fact of predicting that those who participate in the voluntary return of capital must carry all the documents and social documentation means that crimes linked to the destruction of documents or the failure to hold documents should be excluded, because in that case there could be no demonstration of how these capitals have been exported. I therefore come back to the crucial point: the typical nature of this measure lies in the fact that the taxpayer brings all the documentation to the Revenue Agency, demonstrating how the export has been carried out. Therefore, there is a relationship of comparison with the Revenue Agency that will then determine the sanctions that will be imposed voluntarily. On the subject of self-recycling there has been a lot of discussion, the Undersecretary Ferri has already spoken about it in his speech. I believe this is a useful intervention for the country in international relations. In the initial part of the intervention I recalled that in the OECD we are trying to take action to ensure that we can live in the global village by eliminating these obstacles to total transparency. At an international level, they ask us to introduce, as in all the other countries we are dealing with, the crime of autocycling and it is right to introduce it as quickly as possible. I think it is very useful that this crime can now be introduced into Italian legislation. Second theme. The introduction of this crime, together with a series of other measures related to the relationship with economy and justice, is very useful in the modern economy of a country. I quote only one theme, otherwise the speech would be very long. I would remind you that the lack of action to combat certain crimes linked to economics and justice can alter a system of perfect competition between countries which, in turn, alters the relationship between honest and dishonest companies in favour of them. I therefore come back to the need to vote today on the introduction of this crime, confirming what was said at the start, that is to say that if the crime can be perfectible and improveable it is however very important that today it is approved, because in this way it gives a sure useful signal of how our country wants to intervene in this field.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u119	Colleagues, as informally announced to the Leaders, I suspend the session for an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 13.33 p.m. and resumed at 2.31 p.m.) (Applause from the centre and the right)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u120	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.84, which seems particularly important to us. We therefore call for any revenue from the adoption of this measure to be included in a special guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is money that often comes from our companies, from honest workers, and that does not go abroad. We call for this revenue and this possible return of capital to be paid into the guarantee fund for the companies themselves. Amendment 1.89, on which the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution is opposed, calls for a re-reading of it. We can also, if necessary, reword it. The purpose of the amendment was not to provide for additional labour beyond what the measure provides for in terms of recruitment. The amendment proposes that, before triggering the recruitment forecast, it be drawn from the rankings of any redundancies of other administrations. So that was the point. These are not higher costs, but, remaining within the forecasts set out in the measure, to pay attention to possible rankings of redundancies.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u121	Madam President, I would like to talk about amendment 1.62, which calls for the words "3 per cent" to be replaced by the words "6 per cent" to be replaced. Today it has been said that this is a first step, that we have to cash in and that we have to give the volunteers an opportunity. I recall that we are not talking about evaders by force majeure, but about evaders who have made it very clear that they have brought capital abroad and that they have committed fraud in some way. The amendment therefore calls for full cash and not partial cash. Since we already allow the exclusion of the criminal offence, at least we charge them the full penalty. Otherwise, it will always be a small step, but without understanding which direction. And I wouldn't want the small step to be on the ravine.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u122	Madam President, in my speech I will present the amendments which I have signed calling on the Italians to be willing to bring back the capital held abroad, trying to favour them by charging the right taxes that they would have paid in Italy with an increase of 25% or 50%, but not of 120 percent, otherwise we will not have the desired effect. We must not forget that our State, with regard to rates, is highly vexatory to entrepreneurs and if they have made a mistake by bringing capital abroad, we must not ask them to return by imposing the death penalty and, perhaps, even by flogging them. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] They must be obliged to bring back the capitals cum wheat salt: they must declare everything and they must suffer the right penalty edittal punishment that allows them to pay how much more than a surplus that in my amendments is reduced to a quarter than that provided for by the bill, precisely in order to favor and to center what is the undersecretary Ferri, and the vice minister to the economy have told us. It's not a pardon. They bring back the capital, pay their dues and pay a tax such that it allows them to regain the viability of what they have stolen. I would also like to point out, Madam President, that we are talking about Italians who have certainly been wrong, freelancers, traders and artisans. To these categories we are referring, not to exponents of organized crime that must be punished in an exemplary way, to our fellow citizens, people who daily know how salty the bread of others, and how hard it is to get down and 'the climber for the other stairs' (for those who did not know it is a quote from Dante Alighieri). They bring back the capital, they pay their dues, of course with an increase of 25% (a percentage not certainly small, but substantial) and the money comes back to Italy allowing us to develop. My amendments are therefore aimed at encouraging the return of the largest number of capital so as to stimulate the employment that this Government cannot give (I remember that the unemployment rate is 13.2%, while the youth rate is 42.3%). It is a huge effort that we make to have a liquidity that allows us to invest in economic recovery and employment, which this Government is not doing. It is not harshing the pains that we solve the problem, we can solve it by making serious framework laws and simplifying the laws that are now difficult and cumbersome.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u123	Madam President, the meaning of the amendments I have tabled is linked to what I have said in general debate and aims, first of all, to eliminate the reduction on the penalties provided for those who will use the cooperation procedure, in addition to asking (and this is also the subject of the agenda) for what should be recovered by this procedure to be assigned to education. Since we are talking about a measure that will certainly not help to create the culture of legality, I think it is appropriate to try at least to ensure that a part of what can be recovered serves to compensate for the cultural disaster that such measures create in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u124	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u125	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u126	Madam President, I am against all the amendments and agendas tabled in Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u127	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Bellot, until the words "tax" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1 and amendments 1.2 and 1.3. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Bellot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni, up to the words "in three monthly instalments." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,17 and Amendment 1,18 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators, up to the words 'n'. 74.................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,22 and Amendment 1,23 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u131	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, we note from the voting board that three votes have been cast in the government counter for each vote, despite the presence of two representatives of the Commission. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We would not want some bouncy ball to be included in the voting mechanisms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u132	Thank you, and I invite the secretary senators to check it out. In the meantime, we shall proceed with the votes. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,35, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators, up to the words 'paragraphs 1, 2 '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of Amendment 1.35 and Amendment 1.36 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u135	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I would like to take the floor so that it remains with the acts that the Secretary Senators are obliged to vote on. This report does not answer the truth. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u136	In fact, we have checked and it is clear. In the meantime, it is a faculty and not an obligation to vote. The same senators who made it clear that it was the secretary senators' vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,48, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.61, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators, identical to amendment 1.64, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Protests of Senator Bottici, who points out irregularities in the expression of the vote by some senators.]] I beg the Senators Secretary to pay attention to voting operations. I thank the senator. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.65.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u139	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, since if Amendment No 1.65 were rejected, Amendment No 1.66, I would ask my colleagues if they would allow me to sign Amendment No 1.65.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u140	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,65, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators, up to the words "3 per cent." Each vote from his own place. BOTTICS (M5S). (At the desks of the FI-PdL XVII Group). Can I remove the card? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the secretary senators to withdraw the ballots of the senators who are not present. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.65 and Amendment 1.66 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u143	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, since sanctions are not a joke in this House, then we ask that all those who have been repeatedly caught in this House to vote for someone else or to use other techniques be punished as you sanctioned the members of the 5 Star Movement Group who made their protests. We are tired of this one-way justice! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u144	Meanwhile, I ask everyone to sit down and that the cards that do not correspond to a senator present be withdrawn, to avoid any problems. We shall proceed on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u147	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, on a point of order. Leaving the card inserted is a prerogative of the parliamentarians, who may not participate in the votes although they are present. [[Protests of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u148	Senator Airola and Senator Santangelo, please, I ask you to sit down: answer the Presidency, there is no need for intermediaries. Senator Barani, the presidency has ordered those ballots to be removed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.72, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Bellot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.77, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.78, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.79, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u151	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I do not want to insist, but the cards have not been withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already taken care of. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We stopped at a meter from picking up one in the front row at the top, but of tiles to which the presence of a senator does not correspond there are many and everywhere. If we lost maybe a minute to pick up those cards, we would avoid having to keep reporting.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u152	This must be done by the assistants, whom I ask to proceed with. In the meantime, we're moving on. (Parliamentary assistants are withdrawing the cards.) I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.80 tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81 tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.83.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u155	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I would ask the Government whether it could be in favour of changing this amendment, together with amendment 1,86, to an agenda to be accepted as a recommendation if necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u156	I invite the Government representative to comment on this. Mr CASERO, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The Government's opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.84.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u159	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask the representative of the Government to be prepared to accept the content of the amendment if it is transformed into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u160	I invite the Government representative to comment on this. Mr CASERO, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The Government's opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.84 tabled by Senator Bellot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.85 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.86, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (Senator Falanga enters the Chamber and heads for his post.) FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). But my card isn't here! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Please, Senator, pick up your card so you can take part in the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.88, tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.89, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.89 tabled by Senator Bellot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.90, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.102, presented by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1,104, tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.105, tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u161	Amendment 2.1 calls for the deletion of the article, while Amendment 2.2 calls for the replacement of the words "15,000" with the words "5,000" - the minimum amount that we must declare. If I have foreign capital more than 15,000 euros I have to declare them, otherwise not. As we talked about fighting evasion and taking the first step, let's do it: let's set a smaller amount and force taxpayers to declare what their foreign capital is. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u162	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u163	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u164	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u165	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with what has already been decided in the course of its examination in the referee, declares that amendments 3.0.1 and 3.0.2 which contain provisions outside the scope of the draft law in question cannot be proposed in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. It is also impossible to propose, in accordance with the same rule, the agendas of the G3,101 and G3,102, relating to the crime of fraud in the budget and of content similar to agenda No 5, which has already been declared impossible by the Presidency of the Joint Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u168	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, you have just said that there are some impossibilities: are they impossibilities decided by the Presidency, or have you simply reported the impossibilities declared by the President of the Commission? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency has adhered to the substance of the matter and, in accordance with what was agreed by the referee, has verified the extraneousness of the subject of the amendments and agendas. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Sorry, Mr President, I would like you to remain in the record, to the honour of the Government, that the Commission had given a favourable opinion on the G3 102 agenda, albeit with a rewording, and I believe that it confirms the opinion already expressed. On this agenda, however, the House cannot be expressed because, with a choice that I frankly find unjustifiable, the Presidency, not carefully considering it, has decided on its impproposability. I find this really incredible, because many times during the examination of draft legislation agendas are adopted in which it is hoped that there will be an opportunity to speak on related issues and in this case the agenda is particularly relevant. The unexpected thing is that the Presidency has also declared these agendas unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u169	I would remind Senator De Petris and the Assembly that in this bill the only crime is self-recycling and that there are other bills at the Commission's evaluation, which also affect other crimes. I say this for compliance and clarity, so that it remains in the Minutes. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u170	Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the 5 Star Movement's amendments on the crime of self-cycling. We want to offer one last chance that we do not introduce a false crime into our legal system, that is, a crime that will find little room to be applied and that, from our point of view, is only smoke in the eyes. The crime of self-laundering as formulated in the bill will be devoid of punitive scope, because it will allow anyone who wants to self-launder money from a crime that he himself has committed to avoid any kind of criminality simply by not concealing the criminal origin of the crime. It will suffice to commit the amounts to be autocycled in BOTs, in shares, in investments of an economic, financial or speculative nature in order not to be punishable. It is for this reason that with amendment 3.16 we propose to replace, in introducing Article 648-b.1 of the penal code, the words 'in order to concretely hinder the identification of their delittuous origin by the words 'i.e. it hinders the identification of their delittuous origin, thus identifying an autonomous and autonomously punishable conduct in the context of the crime of self-cycling. If this amendment were to pass, both those who simply self-cycle in economic, financial or business activities, and those who simply conceal their crimeous origin, would be punishable. On the other hand, in the current text, which will be approved by the majority, which seems almost to want to act with the weight of a question of de facto trust, we fear that a crime will be introduced which will have negative, if not null, effects. Secondly, with amendment 3.18, we propose, again in the same article of the penal code, to eliminate the adverb "concretely" with reference to the conducts aimed at concealing the delittuous origin. With Amendment 3.26 we also propose the deletion of the fourth paragraph of Article 648-b.1, where there is the famous reference to the use for the personal enjoyment of self-recycled sums. This is the last opportunity for this House and for Parliament as a whole, because we know that nothing should return to the House. On the other hand, we believe that both this House and the House of Deputies should be able to have a minimum impact on the negative scope of this bill, introducing a crime of self-cycling which, with our amendments, would at least be digestible and actually applicable. Otherwise it will be a farce for the umpteenth time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u171	I am against all the amendments. With regard to the agenda G3.100 (text 2), we propose, if the presenters agree, to modify the device with the introduction of the formula "commited" by the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u172	I am against all the amendments. On the agenda, Mr G3.100 (text 2) I agree with the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u173	Senator Lumia, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda by the rapporteur, Mr G3.100 (text 2)? LUMIA (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni, up to the words "paragraphs 1 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.1 and Amendment 3.2 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Bellot and Stefani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni, until the words "four years" and the fine of "euro." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.6 and Amendment 3.7 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, up to the words "four to "four to ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.9 and Amendments 3.10 and 3.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senators Bellot and Stefani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3.18, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, identical to Amendment No 3.19, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators, identical to amendment 3.100, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senators Bellot and Stefani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.30, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.31, tabled by Senators Barani and Mauro Giovanni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.32, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.100 (text 3) will not be put to the vote. Agendas G3,101 and G3,102 as well as amendments 3.0.1 and 3.0.2 are unacceptable. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u176	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am speaking very briefly. We want to vote against this measure, for a very simple reason: it addresses the issue with two heavy limits. The first limit is that it is a great pardon: it is a great pardon that assures an impunity to those who have caused a serious damage to the country and continues to do so. It also leaves a great gap open, also due to the inadequacy of the contents that were voted on in this measure, to continue in behavior so negative towards the country. The export of capital abroad and the related tax evasion activity, in a crisis such as this, represent behaviour that would have required a severity from Parliament and the State much greater than the one contained in the measure we are voting on. That is why we do not feel that we are voting in favour of this draft law. We do not feel that we are voting in favour of this draft law for another reason. In a way that is not sufficiently clear, the reasoning is not valid: we have planned to do so in other measures.False in the budget is one of the crimes that allows - indeed, it favours and has in itself - just what, by means of this measure, is intended to be established. Many of us have voted - the Mixed SEL Group has done so - in favour of Article 3, because this is the only positive step that we believe is contained in the measure. However, as I said before, it is a weak measure, a timid measure, a lukewarm measure against those who, much more than others, commit a crime that damages our economy and our society as a whole and that represents a bad example of behavior, damaging the bond of national solidarity. In short, we are talking about those who assume a behavior that, in fact, excludes them from the feeling of community that Italians - instead - are trying to recover and support in their behavior and in their commitment to overcoming the crisis. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u179	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, we, too, of course, will be voting against this measure, for reasons which are diametrically opposed to those of my previous colleague. We believe, in fact, that this is a bill of commercials, demagogic, populistic, that does not reach any of the purposes for which it is made. When there is a need to make an economic cashier, taxes are increased, property is made on the house, withholding is increased, people continue to be harassed and people are being distracted from the real problems, which are those of development and employment. We increase the penalties, we do not do prevention, we do not try to tax, to allow development trying not to continue to vex families, who do not make it any more. With this measure we go to fight and punish those who, to send their children to school, to make up the family accounts because it does not arrive at the end of the month, does a job in black or does the chestnut seller (of which in Rome are full streets) and obviously reinvests that money had in black to send the children to school or to buy their clothes or books; let's say that this behavior is liable to be considered self-cycling and we also predict the prison. In my land it's called beaks and beatings. You continue to beat anyway and systematically, trying to fish on the bottom, to catch what is most possible to catch, continuing to vex by increasing taxes and edittal penalties. So, you don't do any kind of prevention. That is why we believe, Madam President, that this is a commercial, one of the usual commercials made by the Renzi Government, which concludes absolutely nothing and which makes us regret, now to all, the Berlusconi governments and the Craxi governments: those, yes, that were great governments!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u182	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, as has already been mentioned in the general debate, we have a great deal of concern about this measure. First of all, we have done a great deal of amending work to improve the text and we have seen that there has been no willingness on the part of the Government to accept even minimal changes, however improving. This closure obviously leads us to have difficulties in being able to express a favourable orientation, given the lack of cooperation in wanting to improve a measure that, in haste and fury, in the treatment, but also in the examination of the amendments, has been so deliberately forced by the Government. Concerns and doubts arise, among other things, about the effectiveness of the measure. In the hearings were highlighted, also by the Order of Accountant Doctors (but not only), doubts and doubts about the possible consistency that may have a concrete response to the return of capital and about the conformity between what is foreseen by the Government and what will be the actual return. It is true that it is not a pardon, but we believe that there is an ineffectiveness, however, due to the lightness of the measure in finding a balance between the return of capital and the efficiency of a system that probably demonstrates many flaws in the ability to recover, then, the capital itself. On the other hand, as we said, at this moment we still approve a set of rules that show how the lesser evil is, in the sense that between bringing capital abroad and the inability of this Government to manage the flight of capital there is a mediation. This shows how this Government acts forcefully towards the weak and with great weakness towards the strong. It is certainly not a good omen to carry out a measure to combat evasion. It is clear that tax evasion is a strong problem and that we are all involved in improving measures in this direction. For our part, it seems to us that there is still no force in this measure that should lead to the recovery of large resources (about EUR 180 billion) that would surely be able to cut down a third of the public debt. We understand, of course, that the Premier must also not displease the owners of large capitals or high finance too much. We have seen that this government is definitely moving towards an area of interest that is not proper to the left. Probably, the lightness of this measure demonstrates this and makes us understand that there is a will not to put its hands strongly in a system that certainly leads to these exports of capital. The only point where there could be a comparison and a point of reference was the inclusion of the crime of autocycling. We would have liked to see more discussion and continuation of what was an ad hoc measure, which the 2nd Commission had already begun to deal with. It was certainly more correct and more exhaustive to unpack the two issues that are dealt with within this measure. Consequently, precisely for these reasons, which seem obvious to us, precisely because of the government's unwillingness to cooperate and work in this direction, the North League, although having given its cooperation and working to try to strengthen the measure, finds itself having to express a vote of abstention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u185	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Madam President, I would simply like to vote in favour of this measure and I would also ask for permission to hand over the text of the speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u188	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, this measure is yet another proof of the impotence of our State and of all the governments that have succeeded so far in achieving a necessary, reasonable and respectful measure of what most of our fellow citizens would expect: that is to say, to take the holders of capital in foreign states by the ears whenever these capitals are the result, not only of tax evasion, but also of criminal origin. I wonder how many capitals of Italian mafias are abroad. Who knows how many capitals of the great corruptors, as well as of the multinationals with Italian headquarters! It is the impotence of a state that therefore fails to enter into negotiations, with political weight and credibility, with Switzerland, as well as with other countries, those negotiations that have allowed, for example, countries such as France and Germany to achieve the same desired result with this measure, that is, the return of capital to their respective countries by imposing their own political weight. Italy has not done so until today; it does not do so today; who knows if it will succeed tomorrow. Of course, he will not do so with this political class. Our country lacks, as we say among us, that minimum of credibility, reliability and respect that a great country, as should be ours, would deserve also in the field of economic-financial negotiations (such as those that are currently dealing with us). This provision will have no effect, beyond its moral, diseducational censorship, as some have remembered here. I am referring to that approach towards those who have escaped a civic obligation, even before legal, to contribute, on the basis of their availability, to the contribution weight of the Italian community. Beyond the moral aspects, taking also the technical remarks that have been raised about the ineffectiveness of the measure, the Italian attractiveness is not so appealing to the great evador, the corruptor or the mobster who perhaps has millions of euros in Switzerland. As they recalled from Forza Italia, Italy is unattractive because some important crimes, such as the issue of invoices for non-existent transactions or the false in the budget (for what remains of the punishableness of this crime, almost nothing in our legal system), are excluded from the penal pardon. It is therefore said that it will not take effect because these fellow citizens will certainly not be so foolish as to risk, if they have committed this kind of crime, having to answer for them. Another aspect is the anonymity that has not been preserved in this provision. Large exporters of money abroad will not be so foolish as to try to regularise themselves with this measure, since the office responsible for the revenue agency is not known as the calculation will apply to quantify taxes evaded or assumed. So, it won't do any good. We are not afraid to be painted like owls. Even if we wanted to appear the most pleasant birds in the world, however, it is easy to predict that what other political forces say here will happen and that it will have a very low incidence, that is, very few capitals will fall back to these conditions. Beyond the judgment if this is good or bad, the fact remains - according to our point of view - more serious because the overall effect of this measure, as you are about to approve, will be the introduction into the penal code, and therefore in a regulatory body that is not due to expire on 30 September 2015, (it is a text that will remain there for the next few years) of a crime of self-cycling which, as I have already said during the illustration of the amendments, has a scope nothing but paradoxically contrary to what we would like to achieve. I remind you that in the text that you will shortly approve it is possible that it is punishable by those who autorize money in ways to conceal the delittuous origin of money and utility. It follows that, by applying the well-known and sacrosanct principle of fiscality in force in our legal system in the matter of sanctions (penal or administrative), it is clear that the offence will be liable only if all the conduct indicated therein falls within the specific case that tomorrow a court will be called to examine. It is easy then to guess without being a great jurist, that the simple way to avoid responding to this crime could be to invest the sums, which come from the sale, from a kidnapping of person, from the extortion or tax evasion, simply in BOT, in shares, or in company participations doing it in the light of the sun because so, according to current norm, we guarantee impunity. What does that mean? Since this rule of self-recycling in the measure is provided that it will not apply with regard to the return of capital until 30 September 2015, we are saying that since the entry into force of this measure (attention) all those who have money or capital, in Switzerland or anywhere - even in Italy - that they are not the result of tax evasion can (in fact, you are inviting them) invest them in financial, business or, in any case, economic activities in the light of the sun guaranteeing the impunity from the crime of autocycling. This I find to be something really perverse, not wrong! We're on our way to perversion, obviously. We can fill our eyes and ears by reading today's newspapers, chronicles of the great scandals and politics that, once again - look a bit - hides in its apical roles (even at the local administrative level) the worst of the worst of our society. But if we continue here - indeed, if you continue - in a pervicacious way not to listen to the voice of reasonableness - and not because we say so or because we are the perfect or the pure - you will also continue to determine the destinies of party politics that you still represent towards zeroing and nothingness. These considerations therefore impose the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement and finally legitimize the suspicion - to which I referred earlier and which really becomes a legitimate suspicion - that all this is a sort of farce, of almost theatrical representation, in order to ensure that it is introduced, in this way - on the one hand devious, on the other hand forcing the parliamentarians themselves of the majority to approve the norm, which must be approved by 31 December - a crime of useless or harmful autocycling. In this way we begin to dismantle the intentions, even the best ones, which for months have been committing us - and not only ourselves - in this branch of Parliament too, in finally building the anti-corruption legislation, which re-introduces the crimes of fraud into the budget and of self-laundering and which leads to sanctions and to a discipline of the prescription of crimes against the public administration as much as ever necessary. The need for this is before everyone's eyes, reading the chronicles of the last forty-eight hours. Let us therefore cultivate this legitimate suspicion: this measure on the return of capital will not bring back anything, but what will bring in is a crime of self-cycling, which will remain completely inconsistent and full of interpractic vulnerabilities. The use of the adverb, with reference to the modalities, will open the doors to tendentious interpretations in the judicial classrooms, which will run the risk of emptying, to a large extent, the norms of contrast to what would be punished. If, then, the facts are as they appear to us, we are telling you that we are seeing them very well, that we are representing them here and that we will also represent them outside of this House, once again, hoping that there will be ears that have an interest in listening to what we are trying to say, from citizens in temporary transit in these parliamentary classrooms. Let's hope that those ears are interested not only in the events, more or less succulent from the morbid point of view, related to parliamentary movements or the vicissitudes internal to the 5 Star Movement, but pay attention to what really serves this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u191	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, how many times have we heard them say 'never more condoning' when governments did not make them on the left, or not on the left with some additions. In fact, we are told that the one on our exam is not a pardon, but a voluntary disclosure. The fact of using terms in another language does not change the substance much, because reading the provision, without the need to advance malicious interpretations, we read of a half-penalty, of the reduction of certain terms and, precisely, of a series of measures to reduce those sanctions, which affect those who have not complied with certain obligations, as regards, for example, the constitution of capital abroad. Therefore, the phrase "never again" should be interpreted as: "Never more condoning, if others make them, but if our government, of the left, makes them, we like the condones. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] The pardon certainly has problematic aspects, but - be it condone or voluntary disclosure - it should bring benefits, in the sense that capital comes back to Italy and the coffers of the treasury cash something, that they had not managed to cash in the past. Therefore there should be a positive aspect, in terms of more money circulating in our country: since there are so many and so many ways that money leaves our country, if it returns it is welcome, just because it involves an injection of liquidity and wealth. If the State cashes something too, it will be able to cover expenses, to reduce the increase in debt and, in theory, it should perhaps lay the foundations for reducing some taxes. But just as it is done - at the same time you want to make the pardon and say that it is not a pardon, in other words you do things in half - it will not bring any benefit. Therefore, we should realise that very little will come out of here. We know very well that it has been intended to complete this measure at all costs without making any changes to it, which we have also proposed to make it more effective and no longer accommodating towards tax evaders or, in any case, those who have broken the financial rules. We have proposed changes to make it more effective; to make sure that the money really comes back to Italy; to make sure that the money that should collect the tax is actually collected. We have made the proposals, but we must run because it is hoped that the financial effects of the measure will come to pass in 2014 in order to remedy some budgetary problems. They are all understandable things that, however, will not be realized in this way. In fact, it would be other ways to bring money back to our country. I would like to remind you that an Italian citizen who brings money abroad does not commit a crime: he commits a crime if he brings money abroad that he has been illegally possessed! But the mere transfer of money from our country to another is not illegal. Therefore, we must focus on the wealth that can come to our country in terms of investment, and I intend to refer to entrepreneurial investment and job-creating activities. We should aim to attract companies with what they really need and not with this fake pardon that wants not to be so and does not have the positive effects of the same pardon. For example, we should not make our country a kind of state of tax police, so whoever is in possession of something, whoever has the wrong to do an activity is immediately, from the start, from the wrong side: on the ground he is an evader, on the ground he is a criminal and, only if he proves not to be, he can enjoy clemency. Such an attitude, which is bureaucratic, to which to add controls (double or triple) and forms to be completed indefinitely, to avoid money laundering, this and this one, are all reasons that make the money go away from our country. I'm not letting them back in. These are the things that should be done. Justice should be seriously reformed, cases such as the one that saw involved the CEO of Fastweb (but we could also mention others), for months under arrest for a fact that turned out to be totally unfounded: a company risked being destroyed by a judicial error that no one will pay, because it does not want to introduce the civil responsibility of the magistrates. These are the facts that keep the investments away from our country and keep away the money of Italians and foreigners who would like to come to our country. You want to do things, but then you don't. The President of the Council has said on more than one occasion that the tax payment mechanism is incomprehensible. He said that there are rules that are not understandable, of course taking the applause of the audience that he had before him when he said so. If tax rules are not understandable, it can happen that a tax evasion is carried out without realizing it, precisely because of the extreme complexity of the rules, as well as because of the objectionability of their interpretation. A former Deputy Minister - who the current President of the Council pretends not to know, despite being from the Democratic Party - Mr Stefano Fassina also said that in some cases there are entrepreneurs who evade taxes in order to pay their employees or to make their company survive and not in the medium but even in the short term, also in order to be able to pay the taxes due tomorrow. In the face of this, what is the reaction? Trying to make the IRS more human? We don't have any trace of it. There is an excellent fiscal delegation that was approved last February (whose iter had already left with the Berlusconi Government and much of the work was then done with the Letta Government): 70% of the implementing decrees of this norm were not issued. Those are things, even without having to make condons or condons masked, that could restore confidence to those who want to undertake, to those who want to work and to those who want to pay taxes, therefore, in this country, not measures made in half like this and not even measures such as the so-called anti-money laundering. It always happens this way: we start with a noble purpose, that of hitting the criminals who accumulate, with illegal activities, great riches and then, with various methods of money laundering, circulating money, transferring them abroad from one account to another and making them belong to others, become an economic power and escape tax and justice. Then we approve a rule whereby the poor man who unknowingly or in any case for small sums or for necessity has escaped a little 'of taxes, if he uses this money in ways that this rule that we are going to approve seems to me not to define absolutely clearly (it is not understood well the personal use as it limits), runs the risk, besides the penalties already provided for for tax evasion and for any other related crimes, to see himself inflicted a sentence from two to eight years of imprisonment. I remember that for manslaughter (even if it is manslaughter, it always means that one or more people have died) the penalty is not more than five years. Here is a sentence from two to eight years for those who use in a way that is rather nebulous to understand what it is, the money coming from or from crimes such as abductions, but also from tax evasion. So the poor guy is the same as the great criminal who spins billions and who probably hid them much better than the craftsman who maybe invested the money that he saved from taxes in his laboratory, maybe to put it in compliance with one of the 1,000, 2,000, 5,000 rules that regulate all the productive activities in our country. Therefore, our vote will be against, because we are in favour of combating tax evasion so much that with the Berlusconi governments, in particular from 2008 to 2011 there has been a great return of tax evasion never seen before or after, but above all we are in favour of the possibility of doing business, of working without being terrified of being sentenced perhaps from two to eight years in prison for an objectionable interpretation of the law. Since Italy is not the only country in the world, as we can see from Article 1, the risk is that someone, faced with these nebulous, punitive and police regulations, decides to go to other countries where the norms are normal and I do not speak of tax havens, but of normal countries, where the taxpayer is seen as a worker first and only if he is established his fault is seen as one that violates the law. The risk is very big and unfortunately it is the real Italy that risks being impoverished. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u194	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, with this measure and with the choice that we intend to make with the final vote, that is to keep together the fight against tax evasion and the occult movements of capital and the crime of self-cycling, our country faces a great challenge. This is also a cultural challenge in relation to the traditional ways in which these issues have so far been addressed, particularly by the governments that have just been mentioned. The flight of capital from the borders of the national states to the so-called tax havens is a problem affecting the world economy: a recent study by the London School of Economics reported by the "Finncial Times" estimates that the share of European wealth that is rooted in favorable economies is equal to $2,600 billion for 2013, with a loss of revenue of $75 billion. It is a phenomenon that afflicts all economies and that can be resolved definitively - as demonstrated by the case LuxLeaks and the interventions against tax avoidance promoted by France, Germany and Italy at ECOFIN - only by adopting a uniform taxation that, at least within the geographical borders of Europe, removes all the dark corners of taxation. On 29 October 2014 in Berlin, at the Global Forum for Transparency and Information Exchange of the OECD, 51 countries signed the agreement for the implementation of the new global single standard for the automatic exchange of information from 2017. The agreement will then extend to 92 countries since 2018. As President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, Italy also finalised the text of the new directive on administrative cooperation, obtaining political agreement at the ECOFIN meeting on 14 October. The new Directive commits Member States of the European Union to adopt the Common Reporting Standard from 2017. The policy, in our view, has the difficult task of looking forward and implementing all the measures necessary to stop this phenomenon. The measure under consideration can be perfect: the definition and incisiveness of the rules can be improved, narrow or widened the meshes of severity. There will certainly be flaws, but doing nothing, as urged by opposing visions, would leave us to the zero year in the matter of self-laundering and would not allow us to flush out at least some of those illegally held capital abroad. This measure is important because it is characterised by a new basic approach: it has emerged from the logic of pardon - which is supported - in order to introduce a model of tax compliance that favours the exchange of tax information and is the decisive means to combat the flight from national taxes. The end of banking secrecy is becoming the new global standard, both at international and European level with the new Savings Directive. From 2017-2018, banking secrecy will fall in many countries such as Switzerland, Singapore, Luxembourg, San Marino. Italy with this measure, in application of the OECD Convention already signed by 84 countries, anticipates this deadline, introducing the process of voluntary disclosure, a voluntary name and transparent collaboration, that will allow Italians who have not declared capital held abroad to regularize their position with the Italian tax, paying in full the taxes due on the amounts exported and those on the income flows earned during the years of export, with discounts on administrative sanctions and any tax crimes. These are the incentive elements which the OECD has indicated and which are necessary to make this type of tax choice fruitful. Among the incentives "in negative" there is the strengthening of the rules relating to the crime of money laundering, which is very important for Italy; all international bodies have been asking for years to reform the norm of the penal code relating to money laundering, providing precisely for self-recycling. The amendment introduced by the Government to the House represents a real legislative innovation, introducing in the penal code Article 648-b.1, precisely the crime of autocycling. On this there were calls from the International Monetary Fund, the International Financial Action Group and the G20, for our country to adhere more fully to the new international rules on the transparency of capital movements and the regulation of financial globalisation, also with the aim of preventing evasion. On the other hand, Italy had already ratified the 1999 Strasbourg Convention two years ago. What we want to strike are the conducts of concealment and concrete obstacle to the identification of the illicit proceeds, specifying on the contrary that the conducts of mere use or personal enjoyment implemented in easily reconstructable and transparent forms, which represent only the continuation of the presupposition, moreover already punished. With the intention of moving towards a narrowing of money laundering offences and the definitive solution to the problem of tax havens, the State puts in place a transitional solution for the emergence of capital hidden from Italian taxpayers. It is for this reason that the Democratic Party strongly expresses its vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u197	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u198	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of the rapporteur on the draft law on transplants, and in view of the fact that the 1st Commission has not completed the examination of the draft law on the identification of members of the Order's Forces, the Presidency has the reverse of the agenda - pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure - and will therefore move to communications pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u200	The next item is: In accordance with Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the President's communication on the content of the bill of stability is. In accordance with the above provision, the text approved by the Chamber shall be examined only after the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission and the Government has been given, if the bill of stability contains provisions which conflict with the rules of coverage laid down by the legislation in force. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u201	The Committee on Economic Planning, Budget, pursuant to and for the effects of Article 126 (4) of the Regulation, after consulting the representative of the Government, gives a favourable opinion, noting that: - as regards compliance with the constraints on the coverage of current charges, pursuant to Article 11 (6) of Law No 196 of 2009, it can be considered that the solutions presented in the scheme of coverage of the draft Stability Act under consideration are in accordance with the provisions cited, in particular, if interpreted in the light of the changed national budgetary framework, following the reform that introduced the budget balance in the Constitution. In particular, the obligation not to worsen public savings can be considered absorbed by the constraint of equilibrium formulated by the new legislation in terms of net balance to be financed; - as regards the respect of the rates of evolution of the expenses as determined, on a three-year basis, in the resolution with which the Senate concluded the discussion of the 2014 Document of Economy and Finance (pursuant to Article 11, paragraph 7, of the Law of Accounting), as supplemented by the Note of Update and the Report of Variation, it is found that the value of the net balance to be financed referred to in Article 1 coincides, for each of the years of the three-year reference, with the objective indicated in the aforementioned Resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u202	In the light of that opinion, the Commission shall be referred to the 5th Permanent Commission, in the contact person, with the opinion of all the Permanent Commissions, as well as of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs, Draft Law no. 1698 (Stability Act 2015) and 1699 (State budget for the financial year 2015 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2015-2017). Consequently, the Commissions are hereby authorised to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u203	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u205	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to point out that yesterday, after 16 years of judicial ordeal, Lorena Morselli and Delfino Covezzi were found innocent in relation to the infamous accusation made to them sixteen years ago, when at 5 a.m. the police took the four minor children they have never seen since. It's been 16 years! Unfortunately, Delfino Covezzi will not be able to rejoice, because last year he died of a heart attack after the second acquittal on appeal. Just as Don Giorgio Govoni died of heartbreak, 16 years ago, after the infamous accusation directed against him of being at the head of a coven that, at night, in the low Modena, brought on a bus children to satanic orgies, with killings and head cuttings. A truculent story, so much so that from the beginning, when I intervened by addressing an act of inspection union to the then minister of justice Diliberto, it appeared an absolutely absurd and insane thing, like the story of Rignano Flaminio. Good, bad. It has been 16 years and of course the children, taken away from the family, have never reviewed it again because they have been entrusted in Italy to different situations. Mother lives in France with her fifth son, who is called Paolo and is 11 years old, and she has never been able to live in Italy otherwise social services would have taken away her fifth son. I ask myself then and I ask you what judicial system is that which destroys a family, takes away to parents the four minor children and only after 16 years communicates to them what was understood from the beginning and that is that they were totally innocent compared to the infamous objections addressed to them. And despite the fact that they had already been acquitted on appeal, the judgment was challenged in cassation. They were again acquitted on appeal and again the judgment was challenged in cassation. We are talking about limitation and the times of justice, but perhaps we should also talk about awareness, social services, irresponsible social workers and magistrates who, in any case, end a trial, have already massacred the accused, guilty or innocent who appear to be at the end of the process. Well, who's paying? Who compensates this family for being destroyed? And why was public opinion not involved? Why were you a kindergarten teacher, among other things Catholic and working in the parish, or because he was a poor firefighter working in the ceramics sector? Does being ordinary citizens, not being rich, famous, politicians, magistrates or actors justify such persecution in the overall silence of a society that when it comes to humble people is totally disinterested? I wanted to intervene to embrace the victims of this affair, the mother who has remained, the father who died and the children who have suffered this massacre, hoping that in Parliament and in the judiciary (about which we are talking about civil responsibility) there is the awareness that when it comes to people's lives, justice must give an answer in useful times; justice must determine whether a person is guilty or innocent, but it cannot make a person who is guilty all his life under trial, because when justice comes, unfortunately, after 16 years, it comes out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u208	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I will use only a few minutes to remind this House that this week the TAR of Lazio has come to reject the appeal lodged by the multinational companies of the drug Novartis and Roche against the fine imposed on them, in February this year, by the Antitrust for a suspected cartel against the Italian health system and the numerous patients affected and afflicted by degenerative maculopathy. As soon as we entered Parliament in May 2013, we denounced this issue with a question addressed to the Minister of Health, a question which the Minister never answered. He replied to other questions, contradicting himself and giving information that corresponded only partially to truth, and did not take any initiative until February 2014, following the fine imposed by the Antitrust. The initiative was to issue a decree-law that absolutely does not remedy the situation; it only partially sounds, but creates additional problems, which will be discussed at a hearing in April 2015. There are in fact some critical issues regarding the administration of this drug in public facilities and private facilities, for its reimbursement by the National Health Service, where prescribed and used only in public facilities. Without dwelling on this fact, we in June denounced the inadequacy and inability of the Minister to hold such an important Dicastery, not only in the light of the Avastin-Lucentis case, but also in the light of other episodes that have followed. This motion of distrust has been lying in the drawer since June 2014. Now, also in light of the fact that the TAR of Lazio has rejected the appeal and that therefore Roche and Novartis will have to pay more than 180 million euros fine to the National Health System (but we, with a prompt action of the Minister, we would have also spared it from May 2013), I repeat that, as soon as the budgetary session has ended, I will exhaust you fury to ask you to schedule our motion asking for the immediate resignation of Minister Beatrice Lorenzin from holding the Dicastery of Health. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u211	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to speak on the issue of the IMU on uncultivated agricultural land, which is recording a rather embarrassing comedy. Undersecretary Baretta a few minutes ago in the Finance Committee in the House, answering a question by MPs of the Democratic Party, said that the Government will commit itself to postpone the application of this IMU. Well, this is not a victory of the Democratic Party, which has had seven months of time available, since the Decree-Law No 66 of 24 April 2014 was issued, to delete this shameful rule, which recalls a ministerial decree that only seven months later was issued (on 28 November) and has not yet been published in the Journal. That decree, signed by the Ministers of Economy and Finance, of agricultural food and forestry policies and of the interior, has already been sent to the municipalities, telling them that they will receive, on a closed and settled budget, a cut on the budget in the exercise of 2014. In essence, they called the mayors to act as collectors, on behalf of the State, towards those owners of uncultivated agricultural land that until now have never paid the IMU and that, according to that decree, should have paid it by December 16, that is, in a little less than ten days. A few minutes ago, undersecretary Baretta practically referred to a postponement of this instalment. Well, what will be the provision? When will we have him? When will the mayors be informed? When will landowners be informed? This is a real mockery; it is not a victory of the Democratic Party, but it is his defeat, because in seven months he was deaf in the face of the calls and amendments tabled by the North League, all rejected, starting from the aforementioned decree-law no. 66 (so-called competitiveness decree). We strongly denounce this. It's a mockery of mayors. It's a mockery of landowners.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u212	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-12-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-365.ana.u213	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.15 a.m.
