ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 30 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.34 a.m. and resumed at 9.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u6	Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u9	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:56 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u15	WHITE (NCD). Madam President, 25 years ago Benigno Zaccagnini, a senator of the Republic, died. But Benigno Zaccagnini was not only this, it can be said that his life has been one with Italian political life, indeed we can say that the main stages of Italian political life are related to his presence in politics and not only because he has been several times also minister of social policies and work and secretary of the party of Christian Democracy in very delicate years, in that heartbreaking and dangerous period for the Italian history of the killing of Aldo Moro. If you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to remind you today of Benigno Zaccagnini by quoting a personal experience. He was of Ravenna and his figure is inseparable from Romagna. I am from Cesena and then I was a very young scout, engaged in volunteering, very far from politics that was something really far away from us, young Catholics engaged in local volunteering. Yet Benigno Zaccagnini made a great reference to social and political commitment and asked him in such a convincing way that around him a generation came together that today includes administrators of great municipalities, mayors, Presidents of the Province, colleagues and many Ministers. When I remember that period I think of figures very close to us: Pierferdinando Casini, Lapo Pistelli, Dario Franceschini, Renzo Lusetti. These were the people who looked to him with interest, to that leader who could speak to the heart saying that politics was great and beautiful and remembering that, in the wake of the social doctrine of the Church, it had a high value of charity. But Benigno Zaccagnini was also an extremely pragmatic and shy man, a man of other times, who told us, who called him Zac, that intervening in the body of the law was extremely delicate, because approving a law inevitably affects people's lives and changes it, even of all those people you will never know the face and name of. Well, that was Zac, in my memory. I want to end with this image: those who knew Zac were looked at by him with a unique deference because everyone was something unique and I personally, Madam President, miss that gaze very much. [[Applause from the NCD,PD, FI-PdL XVII and Senator Orellana groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u18	TONINI (PD). Madam President, the Democratic Party supports this memory of Benigno Zaccagnini, who died exactly 25 years ago, on 5 November 1989, four days before the fall of the Berlin Wall. The political history of Zaccagnini, in some way, is enclosed in the whole story of the first Republic, from its beginnings with the Resistance to the fall of the Berlin Wall which represents a historic bush for the world and for our country. Zaccagnini must remember the Catholic formation in the FUCI of Bologna, where he met Aldo Moro, then the engagement in the Resistance with the symbolic name, the battle name, of Thomas Moro, and then the election as constituent and parliamentary deputy from April 25, 1948 until his death: a long phase of commitment to the Chamber of Deputies and then a legislature and a piece to the Senate of the Republic. We cannot fail to remember the most tragic story that marked his life: that of the kidnapping and then the barbaric killing of Aldo Moro, his friend and teacher since always. However, it would be a mistake to deliver Zaccagnini only to the story of the first Republic, even with all the greatness of that page of our history, because Zaccagnini was also - perhaps in spite of him, because he was the protagonist of a page of history of which, at that moment, perhaps we still did not grasp all the consequences - forerunner of something that later happened. I do not know if he would be happy to hear it, but Benigno Zaccagnini was, in some ways, the founder of Italian political bipolarism of the following period. Bipolarism was born in 1994 with the first elections held with the majority system of the history of the Republic, when Benigno Zaccagnini was no longer there, it could be said that it had been conceived 18 years before, at the beginning of 1976, at the 13th National Congress of Christian Democracy. At the EUR Palasport in Rome, the delegates met for the first time with the direct election, in the presence of a vast audience of militants who were also in some ways fans because they were a stadium fan, two candidates for the secretariat - Zaccagnini and Forlani - bearers of two different political lines and also of two different political-cultural mediations of the common democratic-Christian identity behind which two broad coalitions had formed and to some extent also heterogeneous currents, territories, leaders. Until then, in the DC the different members had weighed in the congresses electing a national council in a rigidly proportional way and in that place a secretary was nothing more than a primus inter peer, more guarantor of the balance, always temporary, between the currents than true leader of the party. The Cencelli manual presided, with its cynical wisdom, at the descending division of power in the party, the government and the sub-government. The only one who had tried, 15 years earlier, to change in the presidential sense this rigid material constitution was Amintore Fanfani who had tried, precisely, but without success. And yet, between 1974 and 1975, weighed down by thirty years of unchanged government, even morally worn out by scandals, in crisis with its traditional allies, the DC had experienced a serious crisis of consensus that risked making it lose its electoral primacy in favour of the Communist Party. So it was necessary to change and the DC changed: in July 1975 the national council elected the honest Zaccagnini as secretary of the party, and then decided to go to a new type congress, in the name of the participation of the members and their power to decide no longer a blank delegation to a current leader, but a congress platform connected to a coalition and a candidate secretary. It was a clash with the last card and the last delegate and Zaccagnini won. For the first time the DC had a secretary wanted by his people and no longer fruit of the alchemies of the palace. The Christian Democracy changed, but it changed Italian politics in some way since then, and I think it is right to remember this historical passage 25 years after the death of Zaccagnini, also because history would then take a different direction from that hoped for by him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). I'm finishing, Madam President. The degeneration of the pentaparty will open the way to Tangentopoli, a private DC from the collapse of the Berlin wall of the remaining anti-communist glue, and will become the epicenter of the Italian political earthquake that will then lead to our difficult bipolarism. But right now that in the storm the routes of the reformists have come back to the ambitious project of the Democratic Party, Zaccagnini's meditation, his spirituality of the limit of politics, together with the tension and encounter in a new humanism, are as many suggestions that have returned before us, that speak to our hope even more than to our memory. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and the Senators Bianconi and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u21	D'ANNA (GAL). Madam President, I am neither Benigno Zaccagnini's hagiographer nor want to draw political conclusions, as Senator Tonini has done. I just want to remind the honest man, who I believe should be remembered in his essence as a person who returned to a party already torn by currents and dorotheism reigning a momentum that allowed him to survive for a few more decades. I am old enough to say that I was a young leader of Christian Democracy and I think that Zaccagnini should be remembered not for what was used, but for what he represented for those who were not the nomenclature but mere militants, and for those who opposed to a left still veined of Marxism in a political context that was not that of today, and where they were still in question, between these two great popular forces, the model of State and institutional structure of Italy. I wouldn't want Zaccagnini to pass by a pro-communist, because there is this habit of the posthumous appropriation of Zaccagnini and others who cannot be judged ex post. Zaccagnini was a Christian Democrat, period; it was nothing else and no one can exhume his memory to bend it to the present conveniences and contingencys, dear Senator Tonini. [[Applause from Senator Ruvolo.]] Zaccagnini concluded his saying at the 13th Congress with this sentence: A tree that falls more noises than a forest that grows. And if democratic institutions have grown today, we owe it to a gentleman named Benigno Zaccagnini. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senators Liuzzi and Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u24	LIUZZI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators and senators, in their moral adherence to all the statements contained here in the memory of Benigno Zaccagnini, we cannot fail to hear the voice of those who, militant at the time of Christian Democracy, knew him from the extreme suburbs of the country, that is, from the party sections, from the sections that were on the territory, of those who, in the name and on behalf of ideals and values, fought for the conditions to be fulfilled in daily life to have a democracy accomplished. Benigno Zaccagnini of fact represented the emblem and icon of those who wanted to fight to the end so that democracy, from the centre to the outskirts, had an accomplished meaning. I agree with what has been said so far, when Zaccagnini was remembered in his most canonical representation, that of a contracted face, of a tense face, the face of political suffering in the aftermath of the murder of Mr Aldo Moro. There was the icon that represented the tragedy of a country, the tragedy of the political class, the tragedy of those who believed in those ideals for which Zaccagnini had always fought. Let us remember that his political commitment was born from his military and civil engagement during the civil war, as a partisan. This is a characteristic trait that has always motivated and fascinated us young people of the time. For this reason, I believe that today commemorating it also means paying tribute to a period of our country that was experienced by great upheavals, but also by great tensions. Having him as the protagonist of that period and of that epoch surely touches us in terms of the greatness of man, of the greatness of the politician, but also - let me return to the concept - of the suffering of politics, all round, from the commitment of an anthropological nature to that in the parliamentary classrooms, in the party congresses, in the party sections. This is my personal memory, but also of our Group, of a hero of the State, to whom in a deferent way we bow our heads. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u25	The Presidency is associated with the memory of Benigno Zaccagnini, who was an eminent personality of the Italian politics of the Second World War.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u28	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I start from the last words of Senator D'Anna - who, remembering Zaccagnini, said that a tree that falls more noise than a growing forest - to say that many trees have fallen in my land, in the Province of Massa Carrara and in Lunigiana, with a flood of proportions greater than that of Genoa a few weeks ago. There were two missing people, who seem to have been found, but there are still people on the roofs. Why do I do this surgery? Because I have tabled two questions in this House to raise awareness of the causes of this flood, namely the flood of all hives. The beehives have gravel that exceeds the banks, have forests that prevent the passage of water (what they call hydraulic officiency) and have banks that for decades have not been consolidated. This is the cause, which no one wants to see; even the prosecutor, to whom I have made complaints several times, turns to the other side, because he does not know what the real causes are. On 30 September and 1 October, Senator Paglini, who is from Carrara, presented questions addressed to the Ministries, including those who had not spoken in 2012, when there were two important floods, yet we have a Government that is silent and above all we have a Region that, after the Chiti-Martini administration, does nothing more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Barani (GAL). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. It is the policy of watermelon: green outside but red inside. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to make the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice aware of why these floods continue to be repeated when they can be prevented. I am a prevention doctor and can say that prevention is much better than cure. I really invite you, in order to protect my people, to ensure that someone intervenes because the Father sends us these warnings of floods every day, but the administrator must prevent them with seriousness and ability, which in Tuscany has not happened for a decade now.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u30	I give you the floor, Senator Caleo, but I would invite you, colleagues, to do these interventions at the end of the session, because this completely alters the work of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u31	I therefore invite you, Senator Caleo, to be very brief. Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, I will be very brief, also because, among other things, the event is still underway, I heard the Head of the Civil Protection Department who informed me that, as well as in the Province of La Spezia and in the Province of Massa-Carrara, there are other events in Piedmont and Emilia and the disturbance is moving. I would just like to remind the House, my colleagues and you, Madam President, that we must, as soon as possible, after the motions we have put in place, undertake with the Government a series of initiatives that concern not only the over-floodings that Senator Barani has mentioned, but a cultural approach to climate change, climate change, mitigation of these risks and adaptation to them. In the Provinces of La Spezia and Massa-Carrara in fact rained in three hours 177 millimeters of water and fortunately the mayors with whom I spoke reported that there are no victims, so the news that appeared on the agencies were denied. I therefore believe that we must ensure that Parliament takes on this situation as soon as possible, because one cannot smile when it comes to climate change, one cannot smile at it by saying that it is events and think that they will not happen again. Every day there is a list of deaths and incredible damage. Madam President, I believe that, in addition to following this new disturbance and being close to the people, identifying the forms of intervention that will have to be put in place to counter the breakdown and to help the population, it is necessary for Parliament to say an important word on this issue. We must then be aware that time is running out: 177 millimeters of water in three hours is an abnormal amount, equal to that which falls in two or three months in an area. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Mr Caleo (PD). We must be close to the people, follow the mayors and declare whether it is possible, after hearing the relevant regions, the state of natural disaster. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u33	You have the right to do so, but I recommend the same brevity.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u34	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, on behalf of my land and my fellow citizens, I would like to recall this great tragedy that is taking place in these hours. It's been raining torrentially since four o'clock this night. Our area has already been flooded in 2012 and in fifteen days there have been two. All the work that was done at the time was the subject of problems that arose one after the other to such an extent that the Province, whose summits were elected in these days, is already at this moment in the Commissariat, precisely for failing to fulfil its duty. I would therefore like to say that at the moment citizenship is also a victim of the unfulfilled duties of local, regional and probably national administrators. Right now there are people who are really losing everything again. This has taken place within two years. A few days ago I was personally in Genoa and Maremma: all these water bombs and floods are also a symptom of climate change due to the wrong national, international and world policies. All we do is burn fossils and cause problems in the atmosphere, where we should be able to see things in another way. I am particularly concerned not only about Carrara, whose mayor Zubbani, who is currently in contact with me and my colleague Bottici, is working together with Civil Protection, but I am also concerned about the choices we will make here in this House today. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] We are all responsible for these facts. Let us remember that we are responsible! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u35	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1651, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the Presidents of the Commissions 8a and 13a reported on the work of the Commissions meeting and a question for a preliminary ruling was rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u36	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to a rule which, hidden in the folds of this very large and unconstitutional decree, penalises once again the weakest to compensate for the shortcomings of public administrators. I refer to the new paragraph 8- quinques of Article 4, introduced to the House by some Abruzzo MPs of the PD, which provides a levy on those who have benefited from the houses made available, following the disastrous earthquake of 6 April 2009, by the Berlusconi Government with the CASE and MAP project. In particular, those who have found accommodation in the new anti-seismic modules and from that terrible event have tried to start their own life plan, now is called by the Renzi Government to pay, in the order: the concessionary fee; the ordinary maintenance costs, also of the common areas; the gas bills, referring no longer to the actual consumption of the families but to the areas of the housing. As if that were not enough, it is expected that the money necessary for the extraordinary maintenance of these earthquake-proof accommodations will be taken from the funds allocated for the reconstruction of the Abruzzo territories affected by the earthquake. It is clear that this mechanism involves a complete de-responsibility of the Municipality of L'Aquila, both with regard to the ordinary maintenance of the accommodations charged to the assigners and with regard to the extraordinary one for which the resources destined for the development of the Abruzzo communities will be used. In other words, the costs of a careless and inadequate management of the reconstruction process by the local administration are charged to the citizens of Aquila. This wants to charge the tenants of the anti-seismic buildings the extraordinary maintenance costs that, by chance, is necessary today after years of carelessness and failure. In addition, we strongly fear that, by removing funds for reconstruction, we will only expand the time for citizens to return to their homes. On the other hand, we wonder how the resources coming from the payment of this new and absurd concessionary fee will be used: will they cover the holes of a cheerful municipal budget? Finally, the culmination of injustice and iniquity is achieved by providing that the gas, which is used for the heating of housing and the production of hot water, must be paid on the basis of the square metres of the surface of the houses instead of on the basis of actual consumption. This is an absurd derogation from existing national, regional and European laws in this area. All accommodations are equipped - and could not be otherwise - with heat accountants, meters for the detection of the consumption of hot and cold water, which would allow a rapid accounting of individual consumption. I remember in fact that in the document signed at the time of the delivery of the accommodation it is written that the accounting would be carried out for individual consumptions. Instead, this wretched paragraph provides for a payment per square metre that goes to the detriment of those who wisely manage the heat and the consumption of hot water of their own accommodation, to the benefit of those who waste. For all these reasons it would be appropriate to delete this provision, which is in favour of a short-sighted and self-referential administration and certainly not in favour of the already badly damaged eagle. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u37	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u38	Madam President, we are discussing the unblocking of Italy; the President-in-Office of the Council must realise that it is not giving him an inviting title that a measure becomes inviting: if it is a crap, a crap remains. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In my brief speech, I will deal with an aspect of the Italian release that concerns the issue of non-renewable resources, fossil ones, and therefore Articles 36 and 38 in particular, to say that what is contained in the measure and that concerns oil deposits - and therefore oil and gas - has a very short history in this legislature. It begins with the interview of the former President of the Romano Prodi Council issued to a national newspaper in which it stated that to give a boost to the finances it was necessary to double the extractions because our country floated on a sea of oil. Nothing more wrong from every point of view. First of all, because it does not float on a sea of oil, since the lucano deposit, the largest in Europe on the mainland, would be enough to cover only the national needs of one year. So it's a puddle, not an ocean of oil. The government then immediately revolves around Romano Prodi with Minister Guidi and the Premier who accuses the Lucanian and national committees of obstructing the magnificent and progressive fate of the energy renewal of this country taking a completely schizophrenic attitude. He comes to this House when he has to tell us what the Italian position will be in the European Council, but he does not mention the words "oil" and "gas" once. It only talks about renewable energy sources; and I believe it! In Europe, its political side is one million light years ahead of what its members in Italy propose; and not only its political side, so is the European Commission which sets clear objectives which the Italian President of the Council, as well as the representative of the European Semester, must follow. Therefore, in Europe it has an attitude, while in Italy it says that we have to double the draws because we need new tax revenues. The question of confidence will be raised automatically and surely, yet again. But this would be precisely what this House, unlike the House of Deputies, might not trust the Renzi Government. It may not give it to him, and it would then be his job to draw the automatic assessments and consequences, because, unlike other measures, this is what makes the pot overflow. Let me give you an example. The last heavy measure that this House has approved with confidence is the one that includes the delegation of work. There were strong awareness and responsibilities about this measure in the majority. Mr Sacconi was directly involved in the centre-right, and Senator Ichino was directly involved in the line-up on my right. Carrying out the delegation on my own behalf was, however, a responsibility involving the majority political groups and also part of the Democratic Party. On this measure, on the other hand, it would be time to point out to the President-in-Office that he really exceeded the limit: the territories, those who speak with the parties and representatives of the majority, do not want this measure as a whole; and it is not enough to say - as many Members do - that I do not fully share it, but I will vote for it. Now is the right time to make it clear to the President-in-Office that with the collapse of Italy he has made a complete mistake. There are no great responsibilities; here we must Get 'em. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Petrocelli. PETROCELLI (M5S). Finally, it would be time to put the President-in-Office of the Council on a high level of responsibility. The majority groups on this should really reflect. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u39	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today too we are called to convert yet another decree from the Government into law. In addition, compared to other occasions, we have not even been given the material time to properly discuss the text in the Commissions. The Government continues to legislate through the decree of urgency and with confidence. This practice, common also to previous governments, unfortunately exasperated by the Renzi Government, effectively exonerates Parliament. There is no need for any reform of the Senate (I repeat this every time), since now this House is only called to convert the laws of the government. By eliminating the division of powers, the pillar of liberal democracy, our Constitution remains a dead letter. Entering into the merit of the so-called Italian decree unlocks, we see that once again there would be serious evidence of unconstitutionality. A decree that inside it contains measures for the opening of the yards, the realization of the public works, the digitization of the Country, the bureaucratic simplification, the emergency of the hydrogeological failure and for the resumption of the productive activities, clearly lacks the criteria of homogeneity, not to mention those of necessity and urgency. This decree is a set of large and complex measures which, in the Commission's intentions, should serve to unblock Italy. In my opinion, vice versa, his approval would give a fatal blow to the physical integrity, cultural identity and beauty of Italy as a whole. Many of the rules concern the landscape. Recent history teaches us that when the guard has lowered, our country, and with it our life, have been violated by a jungle of eco-monsters. The territory is a heritage that everyone should enjoy, especially the new generations. It is not a resource to be exploited to increase GDP. With the unlock Italy you want to build highways and other infrastructures, shopping centers, large works often useless, or even harmful. All this thanks to the generalization of the derogations, of the silences absent. Scandals related to the MOSE or Expo 2015 show that these works are useful only to large financial groups; for the coffers of the state and for the citizens, who suffer the consequences of corruption, are a ruin to be avoided. Large arteries are still being planned, despite the drop in traffic in motorways in recent years. We don't need concrete and asphalt anymore. Our country has, rather, a desperate need to rethink mobility. Every year we find ourselves counting the damage and weeping the deaths caused by the hydrogeological failure, phenomenon, in many cases, due to the wild cementification of the last decades and the neglect of the territory by the local authorities. In my region, Veneto, to secure the territory there is a work that should finally be completed (in this regard I had tabled an amendment): the Padua-Mare waterway. The work could perform the functions of both draining canal of the rivers Brenta and Bacchiglione, responsible for the serious damage of the flood of 2010, and navigable water, thus eliminating heavy traffic on the roads. In Veneto, citizens don't need another motorway, which is as toxic as Valdastico. They want to be sure that the arrival of autumn does not bring with it calamities like those recorded in recent years. When designing an infrastructure, citizens living in that territory should first of all be protected and not bend to the interests of the various cartels of companies that control large-scale works. To scroll through the articles of the decree-elect, instead, it is seen that it is written precisely by the world of liberal finance, that is, by those same lobby that led Italy into the dramatic crisis in which we live. [[Applause from Senators Casaletto, Romans Maurizio and Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u41	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u42	Madam President, my speech will be a brief one and I announce immediately that it will not be of merit. I shall not dwell on the wording of the measure which we are debating and which we are about to vote on. Nor will I make a constitutional dissertation on the vexed question of the urgent decree. On the other hand, I will address myself to the Presidency (which is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but in this case is further justified), on the need for measures to be taken in the organisation of the work of the two branches of Parliament to safeguard the dignity of the function of the Parliamentary institution and its members. None of the senators had the opportunity to put a stroke of pen, to examine, to reason, to reflect on the measure, to be really important, that we are going to fire today. From this state of affairs comes awareness for all of us and also for the country that observes us of the usefulness of the parliamentary institute and also of its delegitimization. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Cotti]] I think it is necessary to make an effort to save at least the form, so I address the Presidency with a very minimalist request (I am a reformist, not a maximalist), asking that the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament agree to ensure that when there is a decree-law, a self-regulation mechanism is set in motion whereby the branch of Parliament from which this matter begins to be dealt with decides itself to complete the work within the 45th day, in order to leave at least the possibility for the second branch of Parliament to pretend to examine that measure. I say all these things for absolutely obvious reasons that I do not illustrate and on which I do not think it is appropriate to spend other words. I shall conclude by saying that I will of course vote for confidence, with the regret that I have not been able to make a very modest contribution (a three hundred and fifteenth) to dealing with this matter, but I hope that the Presidency will be able to make a contribution - yes - to remedy this important institutional vulnus. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u43	Senator Sonego, you have raised a very serious and well-founded problem which has already been addressed at the Conference of Leaders. The President has undertaken to coordinate with the President of the House so that the regulatory rules governing the time-limits for examining decree-laws are made effective and thus ensure that each branch of Parliament has the space to examine such measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the representatives of students and teachers of the schools "Falcone" and "Sciascia" of Palermo, who participate in the campus "Fiamme Gialle." Welcome to the Senate and good work for the important course you are taking. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u45	Madam President, I support the invitation made by the previous senator. That is the way it is: we cannot talk about these measures. Even compared to what Senator Caleo said earlier, who spoke on La Spezia, I would like to say that I know - I'm having coffee together - that today you will be forced to vote for confidence on a measure that you would like to change completely. I will soon return to being a normal citizen, like when I was out of here, because, being imposed on us the two mandates, what we want from you also we impose ourselves first, as we are correct, serious and honest people. Well, when I was out of here, as a citizen, I was convinced that the government was a business committee, and it is. Today, however, after eighteen or nineteen months we are here, I think you are going beyond a becero business committee, because you are the executioners of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Your local politicians - because in my municipality the mayor is of the Democratic Party and also the President of the Regional Council of my Region is of the Democratic Party - have begged you to stop this wreck Italy: they asked you with resolutions, motions, speeches in newspapers and on television; they are yours, they are of the Democratic Party, because they are governed throughout Italy. They beseech you to stop this measure, but you nothing, go straight to this environmental catastrophe and to drilling. In its municipality, they know that Senator Marinello - whom I went to see in the Commission yesterday - is opposed to drilling, but in reality the garage at home would also be drilled! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But know that your children, not just our children, will go to this catastrophe and this future. The serial liar we have in the government stands today as a hit man on Italian territory, without even having passed for a popular legitimacy... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Let's remember that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, please. I have a minute and ten, Madam President. It didn't pass for popular legitimacy, let's remember, and you who could do something, do nothing today. The bostik with which you cling to these sleazy armchairs is stronger than love for your own children and for our territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You are hypocrites: on the territories you sell yourselves as citizens' paladins, then in here you crush these buttons with immense hypocrisy, always and only against the weak. I understand that voting no to trust, which will be placed on time by the young lady who will come in a little while, is asking too much of you, but the citizens must know that you can do more to stop these things here. There are other means: you could have done so in the Commission, you can prevent confidence from being voted on today and you could do so many other things, but you do not. We are opposition and we don't have the numbers, but if any of you would like to get out of the duplicity and intellectual dishonesty, finally deciding to no longer be part of this sleeve of government cowards, know that you will find in us, in the 5 Star Movement, a valid and honest shore. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] I will conclude, Madam President, with an invitation to all local PD administrators, mayors and regional councillors, to rip that hypocritical card, to be free again! Clear! [[The senator tore the text of his speech. Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Romani Maurizio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u46	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u47	Madam President, in short, we are faced with yet another question of trust, which will be announced shortly and which, if I am not mistaken, is the 25th. If I were to synthesize this umpteenth decree-law, called unblock Italy, I would say that it is at zero cost for the Government but at a high price for our people, our workers and our land. Article 40 on social shock absorbers by way of derogation is emblematic. Having not put resources, this government diverts about 220 million euros, previewed for the youth occupation in the depressed zones, towards the regions of the North for subsidies and Cassaintegrati: this thing is called war between the poor, always fashionable between the strong powers. Not to mention the cut of 50,000 scholarships, which, in addition to the worrying and dangerous drop in university enrolments - unfortunately there are so many workers who can no longer afford to send their children to school - the damage becomes complete. The real picture of this country is the social disaster, other than Youth Guarantee. In a normal country - I want to remind everyone - young people, even more so if they are 15, as indicated in the jobs act, are encouraged to study, President. This is the guarantee to have a better country and instead, as if it were not enough, regarding jobs act and increasing protections, in Article 14 we note that we can even lower the safeguards on safety at work. On the other hand, Renzi is very clear on the issue of who should be protected and who should be mangalled. Renzi's haste is that in this decree he wants to anticipate his own constitutional reform, the reform of Title V. Evidently, the matter of energy and waste must be the sole responsibility of the central government, namely Renzi. I don't know much about democracy, and we in Basilicata know very well why, what all this means. On the other hand, Renzi's statements leave no doubt as to what he wants to do with Basilicata and local representatives. In short, for progress we must expect new drillings, increases in extractions and, therefore, other pollution and incinerators that can reach the maximum potential, out of the control of the local administrations (which had laboriously tried to exercise some control in the past), in the face of democracy and respect for the citizens. I would like to make one point: despite twenty years of oil extraction, with 80% of the national extractions already carried out in Basilicata, the region is among the poorest in Italy. Someone explain it to the people of Lucana, if you can, because we really don't understand it. On the other hand, the only things on the increase - as I said in the past - in Basilicata are cancer diseases. It is the only region in contrast with all the Regions in Italy. Then there is the pollution and emigration of our young people: 3,000 young people a year leave Basilicata to never return. Unemployment is 25% and general unemployment is 50%. I mean, we're talking about desertification. Here is the importance of a real policy with guaranteed minimum income, other than the misery of the fuel bonus. We are waiting for an extraordinary work plan, which this country urgently needs, but it is clear that policies for this government go in another direction. In our Region there is the beautiful city of Matera, recently European Capital of Culture 2019. We Lucans by culture mean welcome, landscape heritage, respect for our land and our products, which are unique starting from Aglianico, mineral water sources, citrus fruits, extra virgin olive oil and not to say much more. This is if we really want to enhance culture. This means Italy, Basilicata and Matera for us. Culture means living, not dying. If Renzi really wants to unlock Italy, go to the workers and not when I'm on vacation. There are 160 crisis tables in Italy, every day we see one. Yesterday I learned that also the workers of Termini Imerese, his friend Marchionne, are on the roofs, like the workers of Meridiana and the steel works of Terni. If we really want to unblock Italy and really want to implement real policies, the instruments would all be there, but it is clear that this - I repeat - is not part of Renzi's programme, which obviously chose a policy that goes against the rest of Europe. But we do not resign, because we think that Italy, our workers, our citizens deserve much more. We do not resign ourselves and repeat it forcefully from these classrooms, even in the indifference that we always notice a little from everyone, from a large part of this policy, because if we want to achieve real industrial policies and an extraordinary plan for work there would be all the prerequisites for doing so. And of course, a genuine industrial policy and an extraordinary plan for work are not, I repeat, beating workers who go to defend their jobs, but they need to go and talk to workers and citizens. From my point of view, we are seriously overreacting and we are taking a very dangerous path and of course everyone will assume their responsibilities. In Basilicata, I have spoken several times with those whom the President of the Council calls four committees, because they truly represent those territories and those people and will not resign to making Basilicata a crane. They will not respect the fact that Basilicata can die, like all the rest of Italy, with these policies. We will fight, democratically but forcefully, these abuses and disobedience, and we will do so forcefully because we believe that the truth is on the right side, that is, that of citizens and workers, and everyone will assume their responsibilities in relation to what will be put in place. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u49	Madam President, unfortunately five minutes - the time allowed to me - are too few to explain why the wreck Italy will be remembered as the worst decree in the history of Italy. Since the first day of its publication, in addition to the 5 Star Movement thousands of citizens, hundreds and hundreds of associations, committees, lawyers, but also owls and professors, with whom your President of the Council Renzi loves to ghettoize those who disagree in an intelligent and documented way. He does this because he can't give a reasoned answer, we've all figured it out, be serene. Today I want to give you precise and certified news. Article 35 of the Scrap Italy provides that the Minister of the Environment will identify how many incinerators exist in Italy and how many are needed. The real news is that this article is useless, it only serves to make scene with the few who still bite your lies. In the ISPRA waste report presented in Rome on 24 July last, on page 100, we find the chapter entitled 'Incineration of municipal waste'. There are 48 incinerators registered in Italy, of which 44 are active. There are, in the report, all the tables and all the data required in Italy, also the data relating to energy and electrical recovery, divided by Regions and Municipalities, and there is the information for each plant and, for each plant, there are also those related to each incineration line with the related technologies used. So what's the point of Article 35 of the Italian wreckage? What is the point of asking the Minister for the Environment to do a survey of plants in Italy if it has already been done and is public and certified by ISPRA? It's no use. The truth, Madam President, citizens, is that behind this article is actually hiding the will to have so many small and medium-sized plants started by as many friendly lobbyists, who finance and politically guide the Ministers of this Government: we remember Minister Galletti, who in an interview aired on La7 said that the contributions of entrepreneur Maccaferri (20,000 euros) for his election campaign are the contributions of a friend. And to ensure the construction of such plants even against the will of the citizens, this Government declares that incinerators are strategic works of national interest, so it can use military force to silence those who oppose. It is precisely in these hours that Acerra's incinerator is being guarded night and day by the citizens: what are you going to do, President? Send Alfano to make them crawl? Shame on you! This has already happened, it happened for the landfill in the center of Naples, in Chiaiano. But in that case it was the Berlusconi Government and today the script is the new one that advances, the Government of the Democratic Party. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: You must know, kind citizens, that in fact this Article 35 leads us straight to a new infringement and a sanction of Europe that we will all pay. Indeed, the latest proposal for a European directive on waste, which was also accepted by the Commission here in the Senate and which will certainly be adopted soon, states: "Member States should not support the incineration of waste which can be recycled technically and economically feasible and in safe conditions for the environment." What's the Renzi government doing? It places incineration in the first place and by urgent decree. Congratulations! Even this time you didn't understand anything or pretend. Also from the 2014 ISPRA report on municipal waste, on page 68 we read in conclusion: In order to ensure the achievement of the national recycling target laid down in Directive 2009/EC, a significant increase in separate collection is therefore necessary in different territorial contexts, particularly the Centre-South. It is certain that incineration plants discourage separate collection and therefore we will not achieve European objectives. Let's prepare for another sanction and it will always be your fault. It seems obvious that the plants we need are the composting plants for the wet fraction of waste and recycling plants, but nothing: maybe you can't speculate enough on those and so you don't like them, they pollute almost zero and you don't like them. A small parenthesis: we know that the real serious problem of our country is the illegal disposal of toxic and special waste, those buried in our campaigns - remember? - and here I would like to remind you that on October 17 last the undersecretary Sesa Amici, responding to an interrogation of the 5 Star Movement, admitted to the House that the results of the decree on the land of fires after a year were not equal to the expectations of your Undersecretary, therefore of the Government. Italy is the worthy successor of the decree on the land of fires, a total failure. To get an idea of how the country is going with the Renzi Government, the image of him, on a boat sinking with an ice cream in his hand that published the newspaper "The Economist" was very eloquent. I suggest you update it, because to me it seems that in addition to sinking it now Renzi has also started to pick it up hammered! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the Senate, in the end, with the vote on the inevitable confidence, will have had about thirty hours, including night, to examine this measure and perhaps even less. Once absolutely unworthy, a senate defiance and a distraction to the citizens who voted for the Senate. This, of course, will be passed as necessary against those who brake, the owls and so on, because the important thing is to do it quickly. However, in making haste, there is no control that citizens should be able to exercise directly through Members of Parliament, but also through parliamentary work through which they could be informed about what the measures we are examining contain. A parliamentary examination worthy of this name would not have allowed Article 5 of this measure to pass, the one concerning the renewal of motorway concessions. A business - as the President of the Council himself and Minister Padoan said several times - from 10-12 billion, a figure probably underestimated since it opens up the possibility, at least in the intentions clearly expressed by the President of the Council, to renew the motorway concessions without competition, without any form of competition, for periods up to thirty years, a period longer than the fascist twenty years. For thirty years, the same people who manage them today will continue to manage them. I remember that those who run the highways today did not win a tender, which would in any case have expired abundantly, but managed to enter buying shares of companies that had already managed some motorway routes, but never won a competitive procedure. Thanks to the fact that they actually operated these motorways, however, they have often promised to do some work. In exchange for the promise of this work, the concessions of ten to twelve years have already been extended. Since even these ten to twelve years have passed, and probably the benefits for those who had favoured this type of operation have also ended, they now promise to do further work to get a renewal. At first we could think of another ten-twelve years, but not: we speak of thirty years, from news published in newspapers such as the Republic, citing sources close to the Government. Further scare in this procedure is that the measure at our examination, which has been discussed since the beginning of August because it should have been of extraordinary necessity and urgency, came out on 12 September. But if it was extraordinarily necessary and urgent, why didn't it happen in August? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Or, why didn't you rather do it with a bill at the beginning of August? It would have been a worthy way to use August, seriously discussing these matters. The measure could have ended the process at the same time, but it could also have been discussed on the substance. The main beneficiaries will be the incumbent concession managers. The main victims will be Italian citizens who use motorways but also citizens who are not directly users of motorways, because they will pay, directly or indirectly, the high rates that you pay in our country. What are motorway concessions? The State, not considering to invest the money necessary to build the work (such as in Germany, where the motorways are free), has made them with its own companies usually, but in some cases with private companies, which build the highways. In exchange for the construction, these companies can manage them, cashing the tariffs more than salt, for a period established from the beginning. After this period, Italian citizens should be able to move on motorways exactly as on state roads, because now the work has been paid. It's like buying a car in installments: when you're done paying the installments, you should be able to use the car. Of course there is the cost of petrol, insurance and other things, but you no longer have to pay the installments. Instead, with these gentlemen we invent to do some work (which in most cases they do not do) and, in exchange, these subjects continue to take the same rates; indeed, with increases constantly higher than the inflation rate. The consequence is paid by citizens and our companies who, in order to move within the national territory, have to pay far higher rates than should be if the tariffs were to cover maintenance. In this way, we are less competitive and the many goods that circulate on our motorways cost more to citizens, also because we have to pay the motorway rates. According to data from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the cost of maintenance of motorways is about 10-15 percent of the total tolls paid. This means that, if we did not play games, frankly very dirty and heavy, we could pay the motorway rates 85% less: for example, instead of paying 10 euros we could pay 1.5 euros. So it's not because of these games. Who are the beneficiaries of these games? In this circumstance, the main beneficiary is an entrepreneur: the same entrepreneur who bought the shares of the motorway from the Province of Milan - we speak of the Junta Penati - and sells it a year and a half later with an increase of 114 million euros. This same entrepreneur is evidently considered worthy of great attention, since we give him a gift with a business - words of President Renzi - of 10-12 billion. If a mayor tried to do the same thing with a $200,000 a year service, he couldn't do it first and, second, he would be put in jail. [[Applause from FI groups PdL-XVII and M5S and Senators Casaletto and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u52	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u53	Madam President, I too have only five minutes at my disposal, which are really too few to deal with this omnibus measure. We have talked about this in the Commission and perhaps I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said, namely what are the reasons for unconstitutionality and the reasons why their prerogatives are being removed from the territories, and how are defined as of national strategic interest works that probably do not interest the people and the territories at all, and in fact are silenced citizens and local authorities. There are many appeals that have started to do so, precisely because with a decree-law you want to change Title V of the Constitution and that is certainly not possible. At the totem of GDP and growth, the whole country is being sacrificed and all the rules are being sacrificed, derogating from landscape protection and circumventing environmental impact assessment standards; controls are being removed, citizens are being silenced - I have already said - and a single concession is made for drilling, which they want to double. My colleague said that we do not have a sea of oil, but only 11 million tonnes. These are the only official data, which can also be found on the Ministry's website. The representatives of ENI and ENEL came to the hearing and no one said there was oil in Italy: everyone said that there is little oil, that it is dirty, bad, difficult to clean and that we will need it for a maximum of three or four years. But what you're going to sell these oil companies is know-how. In fact, the possibility of experimenting is introduced: they will be able to experiment on our territories, where there is no oil, and to sell out of Italy, abroad, in America, the know-how of the research they do here, paying very few government concessions and very few royalty, therefore only for their specific interest. But I don't want to talk about it. I want to talk about what happened today, about what happened again: another dead person and a missing person in Tuscany. A few days ago it was said that it would happen again and that, when it happened, you would be responsible. I heard you talking at the beginning of the session, I heard you say we have to do, we have to do and we have to do. The only thing to do is to withdraw this measure, which is old and which goes in a stubbornly opposite direction to what we should pursue in order to limit climate change. The IPCC's fifth report on climate change is very recent, according to which it is certain that 90-100 percent of climate change is due to man's work, greenhouse gas emissions and land use. Governments are asked to take action and to take action to reduce climate change. And this certainly cannot be in the old logic of hydrocarbons, it cannot be in the old logic of incinerators, it cannot be in the old logic of gas and regasifiers, that we still pay with our taxes, because they do not work and are there waiting. We know what our wealth would be, but not only do we know it. Just as it happened at the end of October, still yesterday and today there are garrisons here in Rome against this wreck Italy, and there are campaigns throughout Italy to block the unlock Italy. This campaign has reached the accession of as many as 180 committees and organizations and all twelve recognised environmental associations (even Legambiente, although Realacci voted for this measure in the House); environmental associations are all against this measure and ask Parliament to withdraw it. This happens everywhere; garrisons and demonstrations are being organised in all territories. In fact, Renzi will not come to Bagnoli next November 7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). There are 53 associations, including the 5 Star Movement, waiting for him in a demonstration. Therefore, it is not the two or three committees he spoke of: it is all of Italy that is mobilizing against what has been considered as the greatest attack on the environment. An unprecedented attack, a measure that condemns our country to the backwardness and consumption of non-renewable resources concentrated in the hands of a few. The measure is a further step towards the promotion of the territories, disguised as an opportunity to relaunch, through an emptying of democratic processes, a centralization of powers in the hands of the few, removed from local authorities and citizenship. This is in order to proceed slowly towards the privatization, the sale and the alienation of all the common goods, which are inalienable, because they belong to all and therefore the Constitution tells us that they cannot be sold. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u54	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with a handful of hours granted, not days but hours, the Senate finds itself converting a decree incompatible with different constitutional norms and - I do not want my colleague Cociancich - with a lack of homogeneity of the various subjects dealt with, which even the title has been able to contemplate in full. Before the text arrived, it was necessary to spend two weeks from 29 August, the day on which the decree was issued, to 13 September, the date of publication in the Official Journal. Two weeks during which - we are sure - trading between Prime Minister Renzi and some important and powerful stakeholders, have allowed to finalize and finally make known the text of the provision. A real shame this bad practice of adjustment of decrees not in line with the criteria of transparency and sound administration. And after these fifteen days, another forty-eight were used by the House for the conversion at first reading of the decree-law. We senators, therefore, once again, represent the actors of a farce in two acts: the first represented by a demanding weekend spent to prepare the amendments, all rejected or ignored; the second, a three-day, from Monday to today, with an act of what has been done, since the Government will put yet another, arrogant and authoritarian trust, without the Colle batting eye. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Senator Chiti's decision, President PD of the 14th Commission, which informed the Commission on Monday that it was not possible to give an opinion on the measure. We understand that the 10th Commission, which is also responsible for the decree, has also failed to give its opinion. A courageous and certainly outrageous decision for Renzi, but that represents another sign that the rope at its use and consumption will also be elastic, but it is close to breaking. The narrowness of the time is also certified by the fact that the rapporteurs have been expelled for the work of the House. No mandate was given to them because only a quarter of the amendments could be analysed - of course with the opposite view - of which - I stress - those of minorities (of course those of the League) were not obstructive but of merit, so much so that many were considered acceptable also by various colleagues of the majority. The presence in the Chamber of the Undersecretary alone and the absence of the ministers Lupi and Galletti is also significant. Like many Members of the majority, they are probably ashamed, on the substance and method, of the adoption of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But let's get into it. This decree called unlocks Italy, but that, as far as it will produce (certainly a lot of appeals even before the Constitutional Court), we will be forced to rename "Reblocks Italy." Starting from article 3, the unblocking yards, we highlight that compared to the many billions announced by Renzi, there are only 3,851 million at stake, a small cake compared to the needs of the territories, but those that can be spent in cash terms by 2016, that is in the next two years, are only 11 percent, while the remaining 89 percent is spendable from 2017 to 2020. The result? There will be no shock to the yards and the economy as announced. In Article 4 we find embarrassing institutionalized favouritism for some municipalities. Not all, but only those who, from 2 to 15 June of the current year, directly signalled the Premier the need to have financial space to circumvent the Stability Pact. Here, by decree of the same Renzi of 30 October (a few days ago), according to untransparent logic, 128 municipalities arrive 198 million plafond on the Covenant to realize 269 works defined priority. It unlocks Italy therefore institutionalizes also the electoral tips of the Premier. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] After the 80 euros which - I quote Renzi - represent an ideal, ideological and cultural design, on this occasion the tips are mentioned in a help to the Red Municipalities of the South: Brindisi (103 million) and Lamezia Terme (30 million), two municipalities where - by chance - the regional elections are at the door. Article 5 - as Mr Malan pointed out earlier - contains the most scandalous decision: the renewal with extension of motorway concessions, justified by Minister Lupi in order to avoid expensive tariffs and to guarantee infrastructure investments. That's bullshit! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The decision violates the most basic competition rules of the market, and now Italy risks an infringement procedure that Brussels has already opened on 17 October. On article 7, which intervenes on the management of the water service and on the interventions for the mitigation of the hydrogeological risk, we emphasize that paragraph 1 aims in fact to the privatization of the water service: it imposes a single manager in each territorial area. This is for us a first step towards the full realization of the plan of privatization of the water and the common goods that the Government seems to want definitively and completely to conclude with the law of stability. The rule - as we stress - is explicitly contrary to the popular will expressed in the 2011 referendum. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the reduction of the hydrogeological risk, once again, the opportunity has been lost to allocate adequate resources, despite all the acts of inspection union approved by Parliament on this topic: excluding 110 million for hydraulic installation interventions, but only for the metropolitan areas affected by phenomena of exodus and flooding, the decree does not allocate new resources, while it establishes a withdrawal fund where old funding for mitigation interventions should flow for which the work has not started. It is an illusion to think that the 2.3 billion already committed will flow into this fund: there will certainly be recourses. Even for the flood of Genoa there is not an adequate response to that community again seriously affected after 2011. Uncertainty reigns. Premier Renzi had wanted to reassure the Genoese about the availability of a fund of two billion, but, once again, he had given the numbers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That money is already allocated and currently unavailable. Therefore, in the face of the proclamations, it was shameful to confine itself to integrating the national alluvial emergency fund for only 50 million (aspirin in war, as Gabrielli called them) from which they should draw not only Genoa, but also Parma, Maremma, Gargano, Lombardy, and even the territories of the Provinces of Carrara and La Spezia hit in these last hours. Article 33 on urban regeneration and reclamation of SIN in Bagnoli introduces territorial discrimination for the benefit of the South. Why has not equal treatment been provided for equally dangerous sites such as those in Mantua, Ravenna, Porto Marghera and others? On article 33 -bis, which instead treats the reclamations from asbestos of the SIN of Casale Monferrato, well the derogation from the Stability Pact for the expenses to be incurred, but we wonder why there are still children and stepchildren: why has not been granted similar derogation to the Municipality of Broni, where moreover a few days ago the Ministry of the environment authorized the Lombardy Region to use 11 million from its fund Bonifiche? On Articles 36 and 38, which encourage oil and gas research activities, the League is very concerned about the territories that are likely to suffer further devastation. This is far from driving the green economy. We underline then how, in front of the introduction of the social card in place of the bonus to the petrol pump, but for those Regions interested in the extraction of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, the territories that host offshore regasification plants have been forgotten. Here the Government has disregarded its commitments and has lost the opportunity to cancel an injustice: to restore, that is, the possibility for the Veneto Region to benefit from the compensations to be allocated to the territories concerned by offshore regasification activities; benefits that, with a raid, have been eliminated with the shameful decree productivity, n. 91. Finally, Article 35, which contains, although amended to the Chamber, the standard unlocks waste, is inadmissible. On waste the North cannot continue to compensate for the inability to manage the South. We're gonna report this! The government's decision to send millions of tons of waste from the Centre and the South to the North is inadmissible in order to systematically resolve the chronic inability of politicians and administrators who have ruined their territories by reducing them to open-air landfills. Renzi shows contempt for the virtuous regions that have reached excellence in waste management. It requires thermo-towers, incinerators but also cements of the North to become strategic plants of national interest to be allowed to operate them to the maximum of their thermal capacity, so as to dispose of what the South has accumulated over the years, including eco-balls. A serious choice that, in fact, exonerates the Regions in this matter, because if they were not to adapt to the diktat of Renzi they would be commissioners. We're a joke country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Instead of punishing irresponsible and unfulfilling administrators and replacing them with a commissioner, it is proposed that the commissioners of virtuous governors reject the waste of others! It's an injustice! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senator Fattori]] With this rule the Centralist Government tries to eliminate an all-Italian shame present in Campania, Calabria, Sicily and Lazio where over the years no disposal plants have been built, landfills are overflowing and entire neighborhoods are invaded with malodorant and dangerous garbage. It is unacceptable that the territories and populations of Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany and Veneto, which over the years have built a virtuous system of separate collection with adequate disposal facilities, must become the new and legalized trash can of Italy and, therefore, suffer the problems and pollution due to the numerous means of transport and the combustion of mountains of external waste of which there is no guarantee. Lombardy has already had enough of the toxic waste that - it seems - with illegal traffic over the years came from Slovenia, Australia and various countries of the East. If the news from journalistic investigations were confirmed, we would be faced with an alarming land of Northern fires. That is why I asked that the Committee of Inquiry into Waste should open a specific line of inquiry to ascertain the truth. On Rule 35, where did the northern parliamentarians of the majority who had promised to remove the rule that covers twenty years of ecological battles for separate collection? Where is the left-wing environmentalist people? Why don't you protest? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The League has remained alone in the battle to eliminate this absurd norm which they certainly look with favor to politicians and administrators of the South already ready for the disengagement towards the management of the South and to live of annuity, since there is so much pants that pays. I shall start with the conclusions. Premier Renzi, this decree-law will not lead to that expected revival of the country, which will remain, instead, in the immobilism; it will not give that urgent impulse to the resumption of investments and productive activities. In many ways it is a mess that not only will it not solve the unresolved problems, but it will create new ones. It has already disappointed many expectations and has left many economic categories unsatisfied. It contains too many, too many derogation rules and even a real legislative delegation on land and rock excavations, while the rules of simplification to ordinary regime are totally absent. The absurd amount of extraordinary commissioners called to carry out everything will remain in history. Moreover (and it is the most unacceptable thing) by expelling the Regions, it confers many powers, even substitute, to the word Renzi, one man in command, who will carry them out with the various mission structures that will, in fact, also commissioner its Ministers. In short, the decree-law will unlock nothing compared to what the country asks. Unlock only drills and waste from the South to the North! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u57	Madam President, yet another decree-law: it unblocks Italy or, as we say, it breaks Italy, it breaks Italy or, even worse, in these days it drowns Italy. Apart from the daily issues of the last hours, today, I would like to mention a date: October 9, 1963. We need to remember these things, to prevent this policy from continuing to create situations that are now criminal. "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inside they are rapacious wolves. By their fruits you will recognize them. (Matthew 7:15-20): this quite embodies a policy that is a disease, now. A disease that can be diagnosed. In fact, we are not worried about the "announced" syndrome, which afflicts our Prime Minister and his associates, which I consider an attribute of the times in which we live: instant, connected, media (a tweet will save the world). On the other hand, I am very concerned about the hypocrisitis, the slight symptoms of which are dishonored ads, while the serious ones are manifested by formal acts contrary to what has been stated. And this is an example. Prognosis, if we want to solve the syndrome: this Renzi has sewn himself on a role of scraper-innovator, but the actions that he first announces and then signs show that he is old, indeed very old (by their fruits you will recognize them): the exact same as his predecessors. They're the cause of the disease and they're dealing for the cure. Where is the difference with Monti, Amato, D'Alema, Dini, Colombo? Tighten, underneath, just slogans. And under these slogans, you always find only rod, concrete, asphalt, bitumen, scaffolding, favors for big builders, both legal and criminal. To heal we will heal perhaps one day, who knows, even if the viruses are so widespread and chronic that the corpses are many and unfortunately increase from hour to hour. But these are certainly not the drugs, decrepit and toxic as necromancer potions. New drugs, original thoughts, horizontal, ethical and participatory perspectives are indispensable. The old decrees and their announcers must be thrown away. I speak often and especially of railways, because I have been working on that for more than twenty years. In this decree we have a couple of examples, one of which is the Third Pass, which is another of the dreamlike pantomimes of these legislators, who would like to reverse the flow of traffic of a director who has no possibility of reversal. In fact, if goods travel, they certainly travel from North to South and stop in Milan and Novara; therefore the Third Pass has no sense of existence, as there is no sense that money is spent, especially at times like this, to invent impossible journeys. It must be said - as I said in the Commission - that there would also be a sort of scam underneath: Switzerland gives us money in order to be able to increase the traffic between the border and, precisely, Milan and Novara, because that is the hot zone, the last spur of a corridor that, when arrived in Milan, is pulverized, it no longer needs anything else. So the fact that you use this money to try to reverse this flow of goods is a scam, a scam against Switzerland. In the Commission we have tabled an agenda to move, at least momentarily, the resources of the Third Pass to the people who have suffered and are suffering new floods every day. At least the territories, at least Senator Borioli could refrain from voting for it, because there really is no peace in those areas. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words to the Napoli-Bari which was sold as high speed, but fortunately it is not, but the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport should also become aware of this, namely that the projects of the Ferrovie dello Stato are different from what the Ministry said. While good are the Sicilian lines, because you need new lines. I conclude by saying that we have done, we have said, and it is often said in this House that we spend minutes of solidarity and silence on the yet another tragedy that is taking place... PRESIDENT. You should finish, Senator Scibona. SCIBONA (M5S). Stop. We are tired of being in this House to bring solidarity when there is menephregism. In fact, it is not possible to keep quiet, standing and then do the exact opposite when certain decrees and certain policies are carried out. I don't think we're gonna be in this farce anymore. We will leave these classrooms because it is more appropriate and it is more humanly acceptable not to participate in these pitfalls. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u58	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration provides for the conversion into law, with the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies, of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014, which contains urgent and important provisions - I stress - for the opening of construction sites, the realization of public works, the digitisation of the country, the bureaucratic simplification, the allocation of resources for the emergency of hydrogeological failure and the resumption of productive activities. These objectives are fully part of the strategy of the Government and the Democratic Party and aim to relaunch the competitiveness of our country and to support growth, whose pursuit is necessary in the moment of economic crisis that is going through the country, which needs measures to stimulate the economy accompanied by structural reforms. The measure, modified following the examination in the Chamber, introduces important elements of simplification with the aim of overcoming some blocks in the operation of the public machine. 11:32 a.m. (Follows CANTINI). A part of these blocks is also linked to the rules, bureaucratic burdens, to the mechanisms of operation that, over the years, have risen and overlapped, to the point of complicating every single investment or productive reality or even the public machine: a block understandable in the historical reasons of its formation, but that today risks, in changed and urgent circumstances, to paralyze an entire system Country. This is a block that we are, therefore, trying to remove, by starting the yards reported by the mayors to the Presidency of the Council or taken from the registry of unfinished works, which will now have a half-time delay of the Conference of Services and a directing booth, in the event of disagreement of the administrations, at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, as provided for in Article 4. It is a block that we no longer want to see in the use of the resources of the European Structural Funds and the Development and Cohesion Fund, because wasting resources from Europe is simply an unsustainable and intolerable cost. In fact, thanks to Article 12 of the Decree-Law under consideration, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, after hearing the unified Conference, will be able to propose to CIPE the definancing and reprogramming of non-committed resources, if public administrations are inert, delayed or defaulted in the management of these resources. The article also gives inspection and monitoring power if substitute powers are needed to commit resources, i.e. to make them operational on the territory. The decree-law also intervenes in support of the production system - it has not been mentioned and I, on the other hand, want to emphasize it - through funds to encourage the capitalization of enterprises (Article 15) and by providing, as in Article 30, a plan for the promotion of Made in Italy, with particular reference to the agri-food productions of excellence, and promoting internationalization through appropriate professional figures. It is a plan that serves, also and above all, to attract foreign investments, which our country needs and in respect of which we are still far behind compared to other European countries. All this cannot exist, however, without suitable infrastructure, physical and computer. We can certainly talk about internationalization but, if the Internet connection is slow or if the logistics is lacking, it becomes very complicated - for example - to connect a small country of Central Italy, which however produces products of great quality, with the rest of the world and with the markets now globalized. The Government has therefore promoted, through this decree, a series of fundamental infrastructures, putting and unlocking resources for almost four billion euros; decanding the times of their use and making them transparent, through the publication on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure, according to the norms of the code of the digital administration, and already establishing the reassignment of the funds in cases where the programs are not respected. Through article 29, moreover, it is previewed that, with decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - that it will be subjected to the opinion of the parliamentary Commissions, thanks to a modification, than I consider positive, introduced to the Chamber of Deputies - a national strategic plan of the portualità and the logistics is adopted, that it contemplates also the rationalization, the reorganization and the amalgamation of the existing harbour authorities, but that at the same time it indicates the necessary intense activities in order to render more competitive the Italian ports. This logic also includes the programme, contained in Articles 6 and following of the Decree, for the increase of broadband facilities and electronic communications networks, through tax credits concessions. It is essential, in fact, to talk about the Internet and e-commerce, but there must be the most suitable infrastructure for the economy of the third millennium. In Article 6 of the decree, in fact, strategic for the country, it is expected first of all the granting of an IRES and IRAP tax credit within the limit of 50% of the investment, for infrastructural interventions of realization of electronic communications networks to ultra broadband. Simplifications are introduced in the excavation and laying of cables, so that these works can be faster, as well as for the construction of mobile communication networks. In addition, Article 6a establishes the national information system federato of infrastructures, because there is a complete lack of general information; while Article 6b contains provisions for the infrastructure of buildings with electronic communications systems, all with a view to the modernization of the country. It is also part of the necessary process of modernization of the entire railway transport sector as provided for in article 1, paragraph 10-a, with the preparation by the Ministry of Infrastructure of a plan for the railway infrastructure, aimed at making works of public interest, national or European, cantierabile in the short term, in order to make the country competitive. In the same paragraph 1, in order to speed up the realization of the works relative to the railway line Naples-Bari, a commissioner is appointed, in this case designated in the managing director of Ferrovie dello Stato. It comes from the perspective of promoting the use and the search for resources to move the economy of the Country - and I want to emphasize it, because also several articles have not been taken into consideration in the debate - the provisions of Article 10 to increase the operation of the Deposit and Loan Fund, through the extinction of the perimeter of financial transactions. The same applies to Article 11, with the extension of the framework which facilitates the implementation of new infrastructure through public-private partnership contracts, and to Article 13, which amends the project bond framework contained in Article 157 of the Public Contract Code. Many others are the regulatory dictates in the decree that we are analysing in this House, among which I want to highlight one last one, which has great value, because it concerns the many, too many workers who are paying the highest price of the crisis and of which the Government, even with this measure, shows that it does not forget. Article 40, in fact, previews the refinancing for well 728 million euros in 2014 of the social shock absorbers in derogation and complete, to paragraph 4, the supply of the treatments of unemployment ASPI for the suspended workers for business crisis or occupational, with an increase of eight million euros on 2013. Finally, in a nutshell, what I want to stress is that with this decree-law, modified, integrated and improved by parliamentary work, it affects the revival of the country, guaranteeing the development of infrastructure, without sacrificing a responsible management of the territory. Our objective, to which this measure contributes, is to restart Italy, to make it return to growth, to be competitive and the engine of social and economic growth of a new Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u61	Mr President, yesterday in this House this measure - obviously not in practice, but in extraordinary and exceptional events - has been reported by the Presidents of the Commissions on the subject, namely Presidents Matteoli and Marinello. We have both seen the difficulty and the embarrassment of all the speeches we have heard this morning, including those of the majority, to say that the time has been short: I myself can confirm this, given the shortness of the time when the work in the Committee on Agriculture, of which I am a member, took place, which in just eight minutes gave the competent opinion. Honestly all this outrage for a provision that has been announced to the whole world, urbi et orbi, as it unlocks Italy. As far as I am concerned, I do not think it has unlocked anything: the only thing that this measure has unlocked is drilling. Obviously, things would have been different if we had more time. I do not believe, in fact, in the problems linked to the times of the work of the Assembly: it was all an orchestration by the Government to get us to examine the measure at the last useful moment, so as to remove us from the embarrassment also to read the article. If we had in fact deepened it, I am convinced - also because of the statements I have heard this morning - that at least 75% of the senators in this House would not have voted for this measure. I'm sure of that, but that's what happened. To my fellow Members who will vote for confidence I want to say that, while I am the one who has always respected the rules of a Group and a party in his history, the fact of always voting with suffering, sooner or later, will lead this same suffering to become very dramatic, and I am convinced of that. The President of the Environment Commission, Senator Marinello, on Article 38 of the decree - which I call unlocking drills, but not just myself - said that, if we had more time in the Commission on merit, most likely - they are textual words - there would be a very full-bodied review of the text. Well, I'm only going to talk here about drilling, only Article 38. Renzi announced to the universe that he would like to make Sicily and Basilicata become the new Texas: he announced it in an extraordinarily disruptive way. And just to President Renzi I turn, hoping he doesn't make the joke: "Who has spoken? A humble senator of this Republic has spoken, who wants to contribute with proof papers and documentation. So much so, Mr President, that, unfortunately not having the opportunity to express myself also in scientific and technical terms, I would ask you to be able to submit the scientific part of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. RUVOLO (GAL). Renzi has announced that of Basilicata and Sicily will make the new Texas. I am convinced that in Basilicata - I will speak more about Sicily, however - they certainly do not need other drilling, because Augusta, Gela, Melilli and Milazzo are enough. It is enough to have devastated all that area and there is really no need for new drilling. Compared to existing ones, 15 other authorisations are in progress. In the stretch of sea that goes - we are in the channel of Sicily, to understand us - from Ragusa to Trapani I do not understand why the authorizations of environmental impact assessment (EIA) and strategic environmental assessment (VAS) have been given by the bodies that have competence in this matter. It is of particular concern that these bodies issue these authorisations. Do you know why? For a very simple reason. I'll tell the government if you have the goodness to listen. The area from Ragusa to Trapani is highly seismic and there are volcanic phenomena. One for all is called the island Ferdinandea, which is active, and a society wants to pierce the crater of that volcano. Actually, we're paradoxical. I would ask the President of the Council and his Government to check whether these authorisations are valid or not before issuing the authorisations. That's all we ask. That's all we're asking. We only ask to verify, because otherwise I suspect that there is malice about these actions that are being carried out. I don't want to think anything. I just want to think, and only to think, that there are specific scientific checks, to see if there are any conditions for granting authorisations. Certainly the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council are sometimes disturbing. He doesn't care about committees, some congressman or senator. That is exactly what he says, because I would never have allowed myself to use this term in this House. By now he has divine power and woe to him who confers against him. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] So, the committees in this case, for the reasons and the documentation I'm about to deliver, should be the essential and main element before we move forward. President of the Council, stop for a moment; think about why too much of the race will make sure that, when it falls, it will not notice what damage it has done to the country and to itself. We really pray with the heart: do the checks, stop! Don't keep running! You can't sell a position as a trader. Let me pass on that statement. We no longer need promises of the kind we will create 40,000 jobs. Augusta, Milazzo and Gela devastated them. We don't keep ravaging. No one believes in 50,000 jobs anymore. There is an aggression of a territory that lives of high-quality agriculture, so much so that there are many PDOs, IGTs and PGIs. Air conditions, which are one of the values for issuing protected designations of origin, are altered. Ma'am, give me a second and I'll actually finish. I want from here also to launch an alarm cry for the worrying silence of my President of the Region: an absolute silence, which makes me think that, being already dependent on the ENI, observes a silence due. But once again mortify that piece of Sicily and Sicily as a whole I don't think it's due! Mr President, I hope that at least one very simple thing can be achieved: before giving authorizations and before special interests prevail, common sense and reason prevail, so that that territory is not once again devastated. [[Applause from the LAG, LN-Aut and M5S groups and the Senators De Pin and Di Maggio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u62	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u63	Mr President, the so-called Italian unblocking decree should contain urgent measures for the opening of yards, the realization of public works, bureaucratic simplification, the emergence of hydrogeological failure and the resumption of productive activities. It has been defined, in a tweet, by the President of the Council Renzi's a lot of stuff. It seems to us, instead, a confused, pretentious and uncoverable measure, which has lost much of its content and promises on the street. A lot of words to define measures that are not indisputable and urgent; measures, in most cases, not very concrete and sometimes even negative and unfair to local authorities and unfair to citizens. This decree will remain in memory above all the emphasis with which it was presented, at the beginning of August, by the President of the Council, using an infinite number of proclamations and slides, then ignored by the facts. I would like to remind you of President Renzi's words at the press conference on 1 August 2014: Italians can go on quiet holidays. We will work more in August, so that in September there will be a snapshot. Italy has already broken down. The ten points of the Italy unlock will have a great impact on the country's economy. They will attract 348,000 jobs. In reality there has been an increase in the concern and agitation of the workers who, apart from Renzi's reassurances, do not feel so serene. After the announcements, in September a heterogeneous and confused decree was approved, which allocates resources already authorized a thousand other times and that program - or perhaps it would be better to say promises - in large quantity but only from 2017-2018. In many cases, infrastructure resources are not new, but they are already approved several times. It is the case of the resources for the railway route Naples-Bari and for the Palermo-Catania-Messina; interventions of which we speak for years, financed several times and not yet realized: pure propaganda, in short. In the meantime, there is virtually nothing to do with interregional public transport, despite the fact that millions of commuters live every day on their own the delays, dirt and overcrowding of local trains. And with the cuts in transfers to the regions, contained in the next law of stability, the situation will only get worse. The cuts to the resources of the Regions, in fact, in the dimensions in which they were proposed, will not affect the Governors but certainly the citizens, the services and the benefits to which they are entitled. A large amount of money has been announced to create a fund to finance the emergencies of the hydrogeological disaster. In reality, the allocation of 50 million is totally inadequate, as are the appropriations for infrastructure projects. This is a shameful response to the emergencies of our territories. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In addition, billions of euros were announced for the urgently needed work for the recovery of the economy, which would have to restart work and employment. Instead, resources have been reduced to less than four billion and, of these, the only sure ones are those budgeted in 2014, 26 million euros and, in 2015, 231 million euros. In the first two years, therefore, there will be only 257 million out of a total of 3,890; the others will be allocated in 2017 and 2018, perhaps. Quoting President Renzi, I would say: "not much stuff." This is yet another deception of the Government, of its yet another prestigious game. It is known, in fact, that the sure funds are only those earmarked for the year that is about to start and that putting billions of money on paper in the years to come does not cost anything and does not represent a binding commitment to be maintained, but only a promise that will soon be forgotten and not respected. More generally, much of the economic coverage of the decree appears to be unsure and the indications regarding how to deal with it are vague. This also emerged during the discussion of the Budget Committee not only of the House but also of the Senate. But we know that all this in Renzi's policy does not matter. What matters is the things written on the slides, and not the reality of the facts. Today it is necessary to make promises in order to win consent. Someone else will take care of the future of the country and the disasters that will result. In the famous press conference on 1 August, President Renzi then announced the miracles of unlocking energy and said: The effects will be seen on the bill. As a result, electricity tariffs have increased by 1.7% since 1 October and gas prices by 5.4. That is the great difference between words and deeds, between the promises of the President of the Council and the naked and raw reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why have these increases been decided? The cause sold to the public is as follows: increases are a consequence of the crisis in Ukraine; crisis - let us remember - aggravated by the crazy and self-injuryist choice of the European Union and the President-in-Office, Matteo Renzi, to promote sanctions against Russia, with good peace in our agri-food sector which, by reducing exports, has aggravated our economic and employment crisis even more. We also consider it necessary to criticize the lack of important measures announced by the Government and not included in the decree, such as the extension of tax deductions to 50% for restructuring and 65% for energy efficiency interventions. We hope that such interventions will find room in the law of stability and above all have adequate cover. We also want to stress that the majority's vote against the amendment of the North League to the House, which intended to restore territorial compensation for the implementation of offshore regasifiers, compensation that the Democratic Party has recently deleted in the Decree-Law on Competitiveness, is unacceptable; the Democratic Party itself, which is now applying to govern Veneto. The Government had undertaken, with the intervention of Deputy Minister De Vincenti, to restore the possibility, for the Veneto Region and its citizens, to benefit from the fuel bonus. This commitment has also been disregarded. Beyond, then, the more virtual than real resources and the announced and then unapproved norms, there are parts of the measure that we contest with force and conviction. They deal, for example, with the usual emergencies in the usual way, in full coherence with the various saves Rome. Don't local administrators of Campania and Calabria use the resources allocated for local public transport well? It's okay. The Government allocates other resources, to remedy them, through Article 41 of this decree. And soon also mayor Marino - we are sure - will knock at the door of the Government, to demand another tens of millions to plug the holes of the Atac, the company of mobility of Rome. Emergencies are never overcome, but simply refinanced. This is the Italian method to solve problems and this is also the Renzi method, in full continuity with the past. But there is worse, Mr President. I refer to Article 35 of the decree, in the Government's judgments: Emergency measures for the identification and construction of energy recovery plants, from municipal and special waste, constituting strategic infrastructures of prime national interest. Many words to say that the Government will be able to force the virtuous Regions to use their incinerators, to the maximum of their capacities, to burn the garbage of the whole country, with consequent increase of the air pollution and a burden of the traffic of the garbage on our territories. The government's teaching is always the same: those who are unable to manage the waste disposal policy do not worry. There are the plants of the North Regions to fill your failures. Forget the separate collection and don't build the incinerators. The state will force the citizens of the North to breathe the fumes of your territory's garbage too. This is the Renzi Government: the Government of promises, slides and commercials. And this is not a decree unlocks Italy, but in reality nothing more than a decree unlocks waste. It's not a decree-law, it's a garbage decree. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u64	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are countless reasons why we should not vote on this decree-law, and I believe that we have heard them from a number of quarters in these circles. As usual, the so-called headlines are then followed by gangherati normative constructs, which generate monstrous amounts of amendments that would rightly refer back to measures that rightly have very little of them. However, these monstrous books always become useless stuff, because to these one can be heard through the vow of trust. Therefore, Mr President, I will not mention the repeated requests for confidence which have now completely exonerated Parliament from its legislative function. I will not say of the extravagant facilities that will regulate, or rather not regulate, the most malicious of activities, that is, the treatment of toxic and non-toxic waste. And I will not run, therefore, to exalt the unblocking Italy, as the President of Confindustria inopportunely does, as if it were the panacea of our evils, forgetting that this decree will impact terribly on those safeguard clauses that, in 2016, will be able to bring VAT to 25%. What does Squinzi care? He won't be the President of Confindustria anymore. They will be others, as always the usual ones, who will have to pay for these forcings: they will be those future generations in whose interest, and with blatant hypocrisy, this Government says it wants to work; those generations that, already today, are recognized in the words of the songwriter Ligabue when he says. You're a laugh in the tunnel of horrors. But I am an owl, Mr President, and I do not want to participate in these vulgar laughter. On the other hand, I will say the two reasons, the most important in my opinion, which lead me to a negative judgment on this decree. The first: there is a devious and captious constitutional forcing which, among others already mentioned in this House, few have been concerned to report. This decree, that is, already takes on the constitutional reform, which still has a long parliamentary process, where it expropriates the regions in the matter of territory and environmental protection of those prerogatives that, still today, are guaranteed by the current legislation. And it is through this subtle and captious forcing that my Region is expropriated of its energy heritage. No one and nothing, nor even this decree, look at the reality of years and years of oil extraction that, in my region, have brought an extraordinary result: poverty and death [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the highest rate of tumour incidence and the lowest per capita income in the country. Flattering goals, I must say. And again. The most important wealth of Basilicata, which is water, is contaminated even in the slopes. It is news these days - since our control structures, such as ARPAB for example, do not seem to have the tools to make proper checks, there are private investigations - that, under the dam of the Pertusillo (by appropriate knowledge of the Assembly is that part of the dam that provides not only the water network not only of Basilicata, but also of half of Puglia) there is such an environmental disaster that even pales the land of fires. I have concluded, Mr President. I am sure that this decree, from the captivating title unlocks Italy, will not unlock anything. As I am sure that, instead, its implementation will lead and condemn to death the future generations of my land. These seem to me to be sufficient reasons to vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Candiani and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u66	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u67	Mr President, the tran tran which we are hearing here and which we feel flooded with is that we have no resources. He's being reminded of us. We find it particularly serious, as well as absurd, that in a situation of this nature it is proposed to us, without adequate information, but also without adequate forecasts of path and project, to block important resources, about 10 billion (and of these times we know what it means), for works of which, beginning from the territories crossed, nobody claims the realization. I believe that in any normal country, when the opposition is not only said no, but alternative proposals are also made, with which (see the example of what you are about to build, another monastery, the Orte-Mestre) even commit itself to minor resources, and therefore gives proof of seriousness, usually results in a tight confrontation and not a ballet, which leads perhaps to synthesis. Consequently, it is possible to establish works, which must, however, respond to an economic hold and to an awareness and sharing not only generically of the territories, associations or committees, but also of an extraordinary fabric that, despite all the effort of the so-called constitutional and institutional reforms, you have not yet eradicated. I am referring to the fabric of local authorities, which sees so many people engaged, and often, indeed by an extraordinary majority, they are representatives of government parties, first of all of the Democratic Party. They also wonder why, in this context, we do not have the care and attention to intervene in a targeted and careful way, with important savings and above all with an extraordinary quality and better than what is proposed also in the decree unlocks Italy. You're blocking Italy. And why is that? There remains only one consideration: to protect that perverse mechanism of big business - there is no doubt - with a degeneration compared to what characterized and characterized our country for the last 25 or 30 years. Paradoxically, in the first Republic, the element of corruption affected and affected much. We know what this has meant: the overcoming of an entire political class. The paradox, however, is that some works were realized and were works that then served, although obviously at higher costs, because corruption represented a good percentage. In the famous Milan to drink, we all remember that important infrastructure works were done and are still of public utility. Here we are faced with a paradox on which we must reflect. Let's stop, even if for a little while, but let's do it! I do not want to go back to some of the issues I have already mentioned yesterday in order to explain the question for a preliminary ruling QP4 on the measure under consideration, but for example with regard to Orte-Mestre I see that you are putting in place all the conditions for a new Salerno-Reggio Calabria. [[Applause from Senators De Pin and Mussini.]] There are all the conditions: the non-existence of forms of control and verification, the reliance on responsibility to embarrassing figures and an estimated amount of just under 10 billion that, as the events related to the last great and medium works tell us, will risk to reach the triple. Do you realize what it means to trigger a mechanism like this, in the face of the economic and financial difficulties that you constantly remind us of? The opposition, however, says that even for that work there are possible advantageous alternatives, punctual interventions to secure less expensive and more controllable with the fabric of the local authorities, which are systematically bypassed, after being brought to their knees with measures such as those I have mentioned, which have been adopted for the Provinces. Controllable, yes, certainly not as for the Val di Susa, because on these strategic works then, in addition to the mannaia of the preferential routes of the extraordinary commissioners and everything we know, passes the militarization. The first initiative I took, as soon as I entered the Senate, was to visit that construction site. Well, it seemed to me more a basis of the Korean war than a construction site that had to carry out a civil work, even though it was discussed on the subject, with legitimate opinions of support or absolute disapproval, as in my case. If, however, this is the style, if this is the method that is also intended for other interventions, such as on waste disposal facilities or on arteries that are considered essential, then I think there is a general point on which we must reflect and we must quickly modify it. In fact, we could help unlock the country, with even reduced costs, because maybe on another side, which represents one of the dramas of our country, which is for example that of the transversal connections between the two Tyrrhenian and Adriatic seas, we are still at postwar levels. Then, for example, we propose not to double other cement, tar and asphalt, but the connection Molise-Rome-Naples, to understand us, but it is not possible through this method of absence of discussion and confrontation, in which we speak empty, without being heard, without having answers, even negative, but motivated. I have already said about the Provinces, but I would add one thing: the amendment that we have tabled is nothing more than what the Union of the Provinces of Italy had proposed. Indeed, the overall institutional project of the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities is high, but we could have at least approved an amendment to say: let's not just go to the Stability Pact, from which we can only come out limited to the SIOPE codes of 2001-2012, because that prevents the Provinces from transferring also to the Municipalities, to keep up this extraordinary fabric that is all Italian (the experience of the Municipalities close and direct). So, let's really get out of this logic. With this measure you calm down only the lobby, it is quite obvious, and you impose your decisions on the country: you do this, so you do nothing, you destroy resources, you destroy the country and you do not intervene on the hydrogeological disaster. It would appear that the bank collapsed in Carrara was the result of an intervention that was over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). I want to stress the conditional: it would seem, because if so, it means that even when we intervene, those adopted are only buffer measures that do not intervene at all to bring about improvements to the conditions of disaster. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, he's gone way beyond the time at his disposal. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators De Pin, Mussini and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u70	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a request to the Government. Article 5 (4) states that "convention schemes" are approved. Well, I have just asked the officials but these convention schemes are confidential documents; they are not known. So, I'm supposed to vote on documents that I don't have access to. I therefore ask the Government whether it is possible for me to have such a pattern when the work is resumed this afternoon. I wonder: how do you vote on an approved convention scheme that no one knows about? I can understand the good faith, I can understand the trust, but I believe I have the right to see these acts. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u71	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u72	AIROLA (M5S). Give him an answer, President. [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u73	I understand, Senator Gaetti has made his solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u74	Please, Senator Girotto.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u75	Mr President, pending the response to this request made by my colleague, I take advantage of these few minutes to give some information to the citizens as the House is half-desert. A global organization like the IPCC, which consists of thousands of scientists from 195 countries around the world, so practically the whole planet, says one very simple thing: the climate is changing. There are no longer any objections, so it is true that even the Pentagon, which, as you know, is the largest defence body in the United States, is already drawing up plans because it has stated that climate change poses dangers to national security, and of course the Pentagon is not an easily influenceable entity. Therefore, there is no longer any discussion on the concept of climate change. Well, according to the IPCC, in order to prevent climate change, the three quarters of the fossil reserves (oil and coal) that we have must remain underground: therefore, scientists from 195 countries of the world say that three quarters of oil and coal must be left under the ground if we want to save the planet from the climate rise, then arrive by 2050 to have 80% of the energy produced from renewable sources and then reach 100%. On the other hand, the European Union has set itself very uncompetitive targets for 2030. On the Italian side we have this measure that, even, wants to double the extractions, so increase the share of climatic gases that determine the increase of the temperature of the planet. My first point has already been made by a number of other colleagues. Oil extractions are certainly carried out in the rest of the world, but we have the common sense to choose sparsely populated areas because they involve a number of problems such as: the production of waste from processing processes, the pollution of water, as well as the serious risk of determining tellurical movements because touching oil and gas deposits underground also carries this risk. Normally, therefore, these extractions are carried out in sparsely populated areas and I do not understand that Italy has any. However, if this is to be done, it would be good if public bodies were to ensure that they were as cautious as possible. And if that cannot be done, it would be good to envisage high environmental compensation. Since a number of problems would arise, it would be appropriate, at least, to think of high environmental compensation, which we do not have in Italy. In Italy we have royalty and canons of extraction stopped for decades. In this measure Italy unlocks are contained many measures (as always, it is an omnibus measure). One of the essential things that is missing is the carbon tax that would serve to prevent the increase, to reduce fossil extractions and to bring back a balance on the externalities that are currently to the detriment of all citizens because - I remember - they are called so precisely because they are paid by the whole population in the form of general taxation to deal with environmental and health damage. I would also remind the citizens that the greatest deposit we have in Italy is not oil, nor gas, but energy efficiency. This is also an indisputable fact. What we can get through energy efficiency is much more than we can get from oil and coal. The European Union itself has regretted the fact that two thirds of what we can make efficient is not efficient, not for technical reasons, but for mere reasons of political inattention (use the term 'disattention', I would say superficiality). Our country has transposed regulations, it has regulated, in turn, very much, but it has done so much to create norms in contradiction between them that make life impossible for architects and engineers who from a bureaucratic point of view do not know how to proceed. We therefore have a huge deposit, represented by energy efficiency, almost stationary because of bureaucratic problems and the chronic lack of implementing decrees. With this decree-law, unfortunately, there is no intervention in this matter that would guarantee far greater advantages than those that would be obtained with oil or gas extractions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the measure we are examining is essentially intended to unblock construction sites and, in general, the construction of public and private works by means of simplification measures in various areas. Regardless of the serious error of dealing with very different issues within the same measure, eliminating the possibility of a concrete deepening and improvement, in my opinion if unblocking it will be required many and many months, going far beyond the strict terms that the decree-law proposes, for the drafting of the dozens of plans and decrees implementing previewed. Therefore, delays are expected to be associated with the very approach of the measure. The resources are few and, where doubts have been raised about the cover, the Government has essentially responded in a supplementary note that meanwhile the works will be done with the resources available to current legislation, avoiding to provide clear answers to the formulated reliefs. Given the vastness of the matter, I would like to focus on some of the emblematic points of the government's way of proceeding. Firstly, it is necessary to analyse what is allocated to unblock local government investment, excluding the Internal Stability Pact, in order to mitigate the effects of hydrogeological failure (Article 4). These are not new appropriations, but they are funds that are currently blocked in the local authorities' coffers: these are payments related to investment in works that have already been reported to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Let's say immediately that the resources are not many, because to this end it is however previewed a limit of 250 million euros, for example for the year 2014, but the limit - it must be emphasized - includes also the scholastic construction, the sports facilities and the road safety and therefore, made four accounts, for the contrast to the hydrogeological failure remains very little. Then there is the attempt to recover sums that have been pursued since 2009, in particular by Law No 191 which provided for extraordinary plans for the hydrogeological risk to be implemented by means of programme agreements, attempts already made by last year's Stability Act and the so-called Competitiveness Decree in Article 10. Now it is arranged that, starting from the 2015 programming, the resources destined to the financing of the participations in the matter of mitigation of the hydrogeological risk, are utilized through an agreement of program undersigned from the Region concerned and the Ministry of the environment (article 7, paragraph 2). In order to address the critical environmental situations of the metropolitan areas affected by phenomena of exodus and flooding, the allocation to the Regions of the total sum of 110 million euros that is recovered from the resources of the development and cohesion fund is foreseen. Obviously the bureaucracy will continue to say its own, because in order to access these amounts is expected an investigation of the Ministry of the Environment with that of the infrastructures, in agreement with the Mission Structure against the hydrogeological failure recently established in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In short, money is always the same: they come out of one chapter to feed another and vice versa. At the garrison of these turns a self-replicating bureaucracy. The title is not enough to make an effective measure. The House has duly added provisions for the exclusion of sediments of rivers from waste legislation. It has been understood that by doing what has always been done in the past (the dredging of rivers to remove sediments), it is possible to help reduce the effects of floods. The question is trivial: who knows why he had stopped intervening for the cleaning of the hives. Is it because of an environmental misunderstanding, a misleading and demagogic approach to environmental management? It should be noted that, in a measure that aims to unblock Italy, there is still a serious desire to overcome existing administrative barriers, through an incisive simplification of regulations and administrative procedures. Even when we intervene (Article 7, paragraph 2) in order to introduce positive innovations in the realization of the interventions (I refer to the integrated design with attention to the balance of the solid transport of the course of water), it is done in a hasty and not to escape interpretative doubts; on the contrary, the premises are created for the inapplicability of the same norm. On the contrary, it is necessary to allow rapid implementation of interventions useful for the protection of the soil, for the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of the watercourses, in line with the content of the clear motion that the Senate Chamber approved just a few days ago. New resources which are lacking in the measure would also be needed here. We await the law of stability, also to cope with further events that tonight have affected Tuscany and other areas, to which our thoughts go. There are also a number of provisions in Articles 22 and 22-a which, in various ways, concern energy. It should be stressed that a national energy reference plan is needed in order to give coherence to the guidelines, as has also been pointed out a few days ago, during the President of the Council's communications on climate and energy. The articles I mentioned add uncertainty to the existing legislation. Article 22, in particular, provides for a simplification of procedures for accessing the so-called thermal account, i.e. contributions for the production of thermal energy from renewable sources and for energy efficiency interventions through appropriate consultation between the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the Environment by 31 December of this year. The novelty introduced by the House is to improve the accessibility by electronic means, through a modules prepared, and provides access, by the subjects of popular construction and the cooperatives of inhabitants, to the categories of incentives of the public administration: 200 million euros are destined to the public administrations and 700 to the private ones; the latter can access the incentives only for small interventions relative to plants for the production of thermal energy from renewable sources and systems to high efficiency; the public sector can also have access to the interventions of increase of efficiency. Now, this forecast for which some private individuals can also access thermal account funds for measures reserved for public administrations poses an undeniable problem of capacity and here the haste has further demonstrated that it is a bad advisor. Why are certain categories and not others included in the list of beneficiaries? In-depth study could have led to a more balanced and more open text to operational needs, resulting in increased effectiveness of actions. The same observation applies to article 22-bis, introduced by the House, which intervenes on the mechanism of the so-called compulsory incentives spread, approved just three months ago. The scope of the annual reduction of incentives is excluded for installations with the responsibility of local authorities and schools. This is a shared determination, but with a little in-depth study it would have been possible to intervene also in favour of other subjects, such as amateur sports companies, ONLUS or public actors operating in the social field, with certain benefits for families and weak subjects and higher costs for the system of incentives probably derisory. There are also superimposed rules on energy recovery, oil exploration, gas supply and storage. We note, in short, the absence of coordinated and planned measures for the exploitation of all - I stress: all - national energy resources. In short, the decree-law further describes in the field of energy a government that, beyond the European objectives, does not possess an explicit, coherent and capable national strategy to illustrate an indispensable medium- to long-term perspective. I would also like to refer briefly to the rules in Article 7 concerning the integrated water service. To a large extent, these rules are already widely applied in most parts of the country for an essential service such as water cycle management. These are the assembly of existing rules with few changes: in fact, it is delayed to demand the obvious coherence of the framework plans with the other territorial plannings without adequately deepening the tasks attributable to the essential function of regulation carried out by the Authority for electricity, gas and the water system, confirming the hastyness of the approach and, what is more serious, limiting the deepening around a very important service, for citizens, families and companies, regarding the overall sustainability, economic and financial, of the framework plans in relation to the rates practiced to the users. I stop here, not without stressing that many other subjects (infrastructures, motorway concessions, broadband, building and urban planning interventions, waste plan) would require an analytical approach that would allow, last but not least, to overcome the serious profiles of unconstitutionality that characterize this measure. [[Senator Floris' applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u80	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, following what Senator Gaetti has just said. I also believe that at least a response from the Undersecretary would have been necessary, which is certainly committed to asking for news via Twitter, but which, not receiving it, obviously does not intervene. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] We are not talking about a pilgrim matter, Mr President. We know that trust will be placed; we are talking about billions. First from the opposition benches has already been raised a concern, that is that a new Salerno-Reggio Calabria is present. Here we are talking about concessions, contracts and conventions whose knowledge is denied to the request of a senator who will be called to express a vote of confidence. We have become accustomed to expressing confidence in trust, but frankly this goes beyond any parliamentary practice. Mr President, I do not want to mention Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, because we would trigger the pantomime of the question referred for a preliminary ruling after which the messages leave, the senators who raise their hands arrive and the preliminary ruling is rejected. However, I ask for the courtesy and correctness of making the acts available to the senators, so that they can see it necessarily before they move to the vote. Otherwise, Mr President, it means that we are facilitating the work of lobbyists in a subtle and surreptitious way and not even declaring it, because it is billions of euros allocated to private individuals. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]] GAETTI (M5S). (Returning to the benches of the Government). It's my right! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morgoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago the mayor of Cartoceto, a small town in the Province of Pesaro, in the Marches, climbed on the arm of a crane suspended on the stretch of city walls collapsed due to the flood of 2012. Since one of the undertakings participating in the tender for the award of the works had resorted to the TAR and the iter had blocked itself, the mayor was rightly concerned that the lack of timely restoration intervention could, with new rains, lead to further failures, which would undermine the stability of the entire town. That mayor has adopted, in his own way, a sort of measure unlocks Cartoceto, even with some results, since it seems to have had assurances on a timely and probably decisive pronunciation by the same TAR. Now however article 9, paragraph 2-e, of the Italian release states that, where there are reasons for public safety, the contract for the award of public works, even in the presence of a dispute, maintains effective. This mayor, however, has pointed out a widespread exasperation, which stems from the perplexity of formal, bureaucratic, regulatory and interpretative obstacles, which determines an inconceptible and unbearable temporal distance between the taking of decisions and their practical implementation. The 1,617 reports of the Mayor of Cartoceto sent to the President-in-Office of the Council to ask for answers on the implementation of works that sometimes fail to be completed, but that too many times they cannot even begin. It may seem paradoxical, but in our country procedural difficulties perhaps weigh more than difficulties in finding the resources necessary to carry out works or to implement public services. I took for example the visual angle of a municipality or municipalities, but if we enlarge it, the landscape does not change, putting dramatically in evidence how we were entangled in a bureaucratic tangle that has become a real factor of paralysis for an entire system. It says Corrado Augias that, if there are strong powers in Italy, so often evoked (even if not, sometimes), there are also lazy ones: I think that Italy is the victim of these, at least, if not more seriously, than the negative effects of a dramatic economic downturn. The will to fight this scourge is the basis of the reasons that motivate a measure such as unblocking Italy: we can consider it an act of responsibility towards the country both in terms of initiative, aimed at eliminating some obstacles that prevent or slow down a recovery of the economy and employment... [[Mr Boschi entered the Chamber. Brusio and comments from the M5S Group]] Excuse me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u82	Colleagues, we are not at the stadium: the game is tonight.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u83	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. We want to hear the country! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let my colleague continue, please. Mr Morzoni (PD). Thank you, colleagues, for allowing me to continue. We need to consider unlocking Italy as a contribution to creating a public system characterized by simple and transparent procedures, clarity of rules and responsibilities, but also ability to use the resources available in a correct way and in certain times. Undoubtedly this measure is not intended to plan a virtuous system, but to intervene on macroscopic and emerging situations and to attack the unfortunately countless situations characterized by a stalemate. This is his inspirational philosophy. Therefore, even with respect to the accusation addressed to the measure under consideration of being yet another omnibus decree, I think that, in this case, the urgent need to restart an inflated system requires to put before the judgment of method that on the effectiveness of the measure compared to the objectives that it sets itself. For short, I will mention only some of the aspects that characterize it, starting from a principle enshrined in it: plants such as pipelines, regasification terminals and related infrastructure of the national energy transport network, as well as research activities, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons, are considered as activities of strategic interest, as well as of public utility. Similarly, incineration plants with energy recovery of waste are also defined as strategic settlements of prime national interest. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Well, I believe that this is an inescapable passage in a country that for too long has been succinct with the blackmail of the bell tower, to the point of mortifying general interests, in addition to the institutions that, while having to represent them, have not been able to correspond to them. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] It has been very convenient for many owners of public functions and responsibilities to subjugate, but sometimes also fuel localist pressures. However, this has proved to be a real disaster for the country and today it is necessary to restore a principle: that for which the local communities must contribute to the realization of the general interest and not to prevent this from happening. As far as hydrogeological failure is concerned, I would like to point out that major resources are put in the operational availability, but above all that the use of these resources is directed towards reducing the hydrogeological risk, including the relocation of buildings and infrastructure potentially dangerous to public safety. In addition, new resources are also allocated, but above all, those that have remained unused for a long time are recovered, and a country like ours, where there are 486,000 landslides, out of a total of 700,000 monitored throughout the European Union, certainly cannot afford the luxury of holding firm resources at its time already allocated, accumulating, with intolerable delays, even incalculable damage. The clean-up of polluted sites - and I would like to make a brief mention of this - is of crucial importance if we consider that 3% of the national territory is affected by these pollution situations. There are 54 sites of national and regional interest covering 1,800 square kilometers of marine, lagoon and lake areas, and 5,500 square kilometers of land areas. The measure simplifies and accelerates the procedures for entrusting and executing public contracts. With regard to waste, if we put aside demagogy for a moment, we cannot deny that, while giving priority to re-use and recycling policies, we are still far from a virtuous management of the waste cycle, as we are also reminded of the open infringement procedures. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Excuse me, colleagues. We also have undeniable and worrying territorial imbalances, with emergency situations open on the territory. In this sense I am convinced that it is necessary to use the existing plant fully, extending it, but only if strictly necessary, to the outcome of an accurate verification of the situation. Unlocking Italy is not the measure that dictates the strategies on the correct management of waste: all the non-emergency measures of the Government - think of the environmental connection to the law of stability - are inspired by the objectives of reduction and recovery of matter in line with the requirements of the European Union and the same hierarchy of waste. As far as energy is concerned, I would just like to make a comment, in particular, on the rules concerning the search for hydrocarbons and which have had a great deal of discussion these days. These rules certainly do not represent a desire to deny the way in which renewable energy has been researched, with determination, for the growth and development of renewable energies. Italy certainly does not become an oil country with the release of Italy, but this country, compared to others with advanced economy, is the one that most depends on abroad for electricity and fossil sources. Italy therefore has the need to differentiate the sources of energy supply, giving priority to renewables, but also with an energy plan able to support the needs of development of the Country. In conclusion, it is clear that the country needs a set of organic and radical reforms, a redesign of the institutional system, reforms, as are being done, on the subject of work, justice and school, but it is equally evident the need, to which Italy wants to respond, to produce a discontinuity with respect to the immobilism that for too long has paralysed the country. Corrado Augias calls it "soffice immobilismo" and Italy has settled there for too many years. This has led everyone to carefully avoid the edges. Today those edges must be faced and this cannot be painless or free from criticism or contrasts, but if we want to look ahead this cannot frighten us. We think that to demonstrate the ability of the system to overcome chronic delays and embarrassing incrustations means not only to restart the yards, but also to restart the confidence of the citizens and the enterprises, restoring a new hope to the future of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] . ).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u86	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I have heard the requests made by my colleagues Gaetti and Candiani. My colleague says that we are moving forward with enthusiasm, but before Minister Boschi raises the question of trust... NUGNES (M5S). It's 25th! VOLPI (LN-Aut). I don't care if it's 25th. It's always, we've gotten used to it: there's no provision without it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stick to your call. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think the government owes us an answer. I'm sorry there's been a rage bike from the Undersecretary. Undersecretary, we cannot react as if we were asking who knows what: we ask to know the terms of the motorway concessions that may be worth a few billion. They do not say that for my own sake, but for the whole House. Not because of the roundabout in front of the house, but because of the prospect of a few billion, I believe that, before we put our trust, we must know what the terms for voting are. That seems normal to me in a normal parliament in a normal country. I don't know what's in the three words that don't work. It's definitely a country, but at this point I'd say it's not normal. But in my opinion a remarried must be given to us. (at 12.48 p.m.) (Follow-up). Mr President, if we had been to inverted parts, I believe that colleagues in the PD or the majority would have asked the same thing: if we vote for a trust, let us at least see the conventions on which we work for motorways. It doesn't seem like such an unusual or extraordinary request to me. It's starting to get a little thin here. It does not even seem to me that it is, if I may say so, a question of controversy, because we are all already faced with the fact that nothing can be said about a measure which should be salvific, as my colleague said just now; knowing at least what is written I think is something normal people, not even normal parliamentarians. We are now subject to the vote of the House on contracts - this is what it is - without knowing the terms. Do you feel like voting for them? I honestly would have some doubts about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Senator Malan Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u89	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to point out that I, together with my colleagues Mr Airola and Mr Castaldi, have made a request under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure that we should not move to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to make it clear, just to inform you that it has now arrived, Mr President, that the request has been made before Mr Boschi's arrival in the Chamber. Clearly, no one will be able to say that Mr Boschi asked for the floor before the request was made for the items to be examined under Rule 96, because Mr Boschi was not even in the Chamber. So, immediately after the government replies and before Minister Boschi gives the usual formula, we ask that we vote for the non-passion to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u90	I invite you to explain your request for a non-transition to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u91	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, by taking up quickly what I said yesterday when we talked about the constitutional requirements, the measure presents many requirements of unconstitutionality because it is not based on urgency and necessity, because it was done late than when the urgency was given and because it contains elements that are not urgent because long-term programming is being carried out. For these reasons, we are calling for the non-transition of the articles to be examined and for the request to be put to the vote in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u93	What are you talking about? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to join in and speak in favour of the request for no change to the articles now put forward by Senator Crimi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). This is a measure that the Senate has not been able to examine, that even refers, as we have heard from the interventions carried out by Senator Volpi and other senators of the 5 Star Movement, to documents that are approved with the conversion of the decree-law and that we cannot know despite the insistent requests. A measure which, in Article 5, provides for a monstrous donation of money to a private group, without any kind of competitive procedure and in a way that is contrary to the rules of the European Union and in any case is against the interest of Italian citizens who, because of that article, will have to continue to pay tolls six times higher than what would be necessary for maintenance alone, in exchange for the promise to carry out new works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you're speaking on a topic of discussion. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Not only the profit, but the total business consists of 10 billion euros according to the statements of the President of the Council, but that are probably many more since according to other estimates it is 30 billion, that the Government intends to give extending by thirty-eight years - twice the duration of the fascist regime - the management of certain highways. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Time, President! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In fact, this does not concern the motorway dealers in general but a dealership, the same dealership, happens, that it obtained from the Province of Milan to be able to buy the shares of the concessionary society of the Milan-Serravalle highway and to be able to sell them with a profit of 114 million euros with established erarial damage. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Names! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's called a Gavio group.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u94	[[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u95	Senator Malan, please, you asked to speak on the order of business! Either we speak on the order of business or it is a general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u96	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if you will allow me, it is more than a matter of relevance that we should not pass on to the examination of the articles the fact that such monstrosity is contained in an article and that there are contracts that the Government... President. You have already spoken in the general debate, Senator Malan! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). President, I have the right to speak. I'm done, if you'll allow me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you asked to speak on the order of business. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). No, no! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, I was not present but I saw that you had your time to speak in general debate. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). These are speeches on the matter... PRESIDENT. Please finish your speech! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I have ten minutes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You had seven minutes for the general discussion. If you want ten minutes now... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). They're counting, ma'am. SANTANGELO (M5S). You're entitled to ten minutes! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). What about those seven minutes? President, I'm sorry, then I'll finish. I see that this is a sensitive subject and in fact it is a question of making a billionaire gift to a private group that has already received millionaire gifts, about which our fellow Senator Albertini risks a condemnation for allowing himself to point out that the investigations have not been particularly effective on the erarial damage of 114 million euros immediately from the Province of Milan; but they are crumbs, because this time we are talking about tens of billions. If a mayor wanted to do such an operation to extend the operation of a service, even for a month, it was also a service of 50,000 euros a year, in the first place he would not be allowed to do so and then, if he did, he would be put in jail together with his city secretary! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u99	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I too would like to support the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles because I believe that it is a necessity that we have had not only very little time to examine the text of the measure but also because it contains a number of very sensitive issues, starting with Article 5 and the extension of the motorway concessions. In the Commission I was able to draw the attention of the Government to some of these requests which, frankly, are absolutely incredible because, among other things, many of these works have already been put in place. That is why I believe that there are all the elements in order not to proceed further and not to move on to the examination of the articles. I believe that it is absolutely necessary, Mr President, that a little clarity should be made on the decree before us, since the competent Commissions have not been given the opportunity to do so. My reports concerning Article 2 (4) are also very serious and add to the extensions contained in Article 5, not to mention many other points and all the elements not only of absolute unconstitutionality but also questionable of the decree. There are also some elements concerning transparency because senators should also be able to know in detail the list of all motorways for which concessions are requested to be extended.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u102	[[Comments from the PD Group]] Colleagues, this is a general debate on the order of business. So please be brief, Senator D'Anna. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We're in the Senate, President! We're in the Senate! D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, the LAG Group also supports the request of my previous colleagues from the 5 Star Movement. If you will allow me, Mr President, to make a very brief comment on the subject, the request is not artificial. The request that I have heard from Senator Malan and others leads to an impossibility on the part of the members of the Senate, who should vote on a matter of confidence - which, as such, goes to cut off any other discussion - and which is not in a position to know some fundamental elements about some concessions; and it is not a matter of concessions to sell ice cream outside the cinemas because they have an economic scope and an economic entity that clings to a large private group for a duration of thirty-eight years. I wish everyone here to be there for the renewal of these concessions in thirty-eight years' time. We, in this House, sometimes want to break the back of the organized underworld and do well, but those who allow these things, without being content with them and without being able to discuss them, how can they be defined if not people who do not care about transparency and intellectual honesty? That is why you, as President of the Senate, should protect the right-duty of senators to acquire all the elements in order to vote for trust or not. In conclusion, it seems to me that we are facing - I say this to Mr Boschi, and I am not saying this because I am voting against - a government of the hourglass. We arrive at the end of the measures and we centel the grain of sand: one more minute, one less minute, one more hour, one less hour. But do we really want, or do you want, to be able to govern a nation, on a document of this magnitude and complexity, being here to see if there is an hour more or an hour less of discussion? The question then arises legitimate: what do you have to hide? [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Martelli]] If you tell us, we may be convinced that there is nothing to hide. But the facts are stubborn opinions. If you're always in a hurry and you don't put us in a position to know, it means there's something not said. If that's the case, and if you want to use the paradigm that is often used in here, I should say that we, in here, are complicit in something that is neither clear nor transparent and behind the opaque things I think you can hide other things that are not said we have to read in a few months or in a few years in the judicial chronicle. Preventing is better than treating. Let us know why this Gavio gets 38 years of renewal of concessions. At least tell us...
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u103	Senator D'Anna, please stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u104	D'ANNA (GAL). At least tell us why, where and when, if you have nothing to hide. Otherwise, do us the courtesy, vote for it, trust. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u105	I arrived at the time that the floor was given, and so there was the passing of a witness between Vice President Gasparri and me. So, exceptionally, also to understand what was being discussed, I allowed the illustration - as I understand now - of the proposal not to go to the articles, ex Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, before the closure of the general discussion, and therefore before the Government's reply. So I, in accordance with the order of the Rules of Procedure, must declare the general debate closed and give the floor for the reply to the representative of the Government. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group and Senator Malan. Ironic applause from Senator Morra. Senator Santangelo shows the Rules of Procedure]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! [[Senators Caliendo and Palma indicate that they want to intervene]] CIOFFI (M5S). Respect the Regulations! [[Vivacious protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, I have been asking for the floor for half an hour! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen... [[Prolonged protests from the Senators of the M5S Group and Senator Malan, who stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u107	I read Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure: When there are no other registered Senators to speak... [[Protests from the M5S Group and Senator Malan]] Since there is a point of order... We are in the context of Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure, on the general discussion: If there are no other Senators to speak, the President shall declare the general debate closed and shall give the floor to the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government. So I have closed the general debate and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. [[Senator Malan's lively protests.]] [[Senators Palma and Caliendo nod no]] The government representative has the floor. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It's against the Constitution! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have read Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Live comments by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u108	Ladies Senators... [[Reiterate protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to provide... [[Reiterate and vibrant protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, since the President has spoken, can I give an answer to the request made by the opposition parties? [[Vivacious protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u109	I gave the government representative the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u110	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the request for clarification of conventions, the Government makes conventions available to the Senate, as requested by oppositions. Oppositions will be able to view the conventions, which will be forwarded to the Commissions, and to consider whether to vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government or not. [[Reiterate, lively protests from the M5S Group and Senators Malan and Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u111	The government representative is speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u112	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen... [[Vivacious protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u113	Please keep talking, we'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u114	Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. ...on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust in the approval of the single article of bill No. 1651, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 133 of 2014, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups. Vivacious protests from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Shame! Shame! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u115	I suspend the sitting and call on the Conference of Leaders to organise the discussion of the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group. The sitting was suspended at 1.07 p.m. and resumed at 1.41 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u116	The Conference of the Leaders has organised the timing on the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law resumed productive activities, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The debate on the question of trust - for which an hour and thirty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups - will begin at 4 p.m. at 4 p.m., after obtaining the opinion of the Budget Committee on financial cover profiles. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 7 p.m. In the session of Tuesday 11 November will continue the examination of the bill on the delegation of the reform of the code of the nautical from diporto.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-346.ana.u117	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.42 a.m.
