ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 16 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u3	I communicate that Parliament is convened at 12 noon on Tuesday 23 September for the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court and two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. He'll call you and start with the MPs.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u4	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure on matters relating to defence expenditure and military operations and international security, to which the Minister of Defence will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on matters relating to defence expenditure. Senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister of Defence, Senator Pinotti, for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u7	VATTUONE (PD). Mr President, Madam Minister, the question, in the context of the expenditure of the defence system, concerns a subject which I know you know perfectly well. The personnel of the Armed Forces and the Police Forces are today subjected to a dual peculiarity. The first peculiarity is that, because of the delicate institutional functions carried out, it is subject to a series of limitations and obligations that place it in an atypical situation and with a very particular status in the public administration. It is a well-known situation for which the legal framework, starting with the Constitutional Charter, draws for the military a very particular legal status compared to the other categories of workers, with the recognition of different powers and treatment compared to the other public employees, also and especially for the provision of limitations and prohibitions, which in some cases also excludes them from the enjoyment of certain constitutional rights, obviously motivated by the higher interest of the State. The second particularity concerns the application of the so-called wage freeze. Although planned for the whole public administration, this measure is particularly distressing for the defence and security personnel, as the structure of the economic treatment of the sector is based, much more than in any other public administration, on a hierarchical-functional system in which career progression and seniority of service are essential and indispensable components not only of organizational arrangements, but also of remuneration. The specific nature of the systems of the security and defence sector has, in fact, widened the scope of the blockade towards the staff of the sector itself, with distorting and highly penalising effects. So this is an opportunity, Madam Minister, to ask you what concrete measures the Government intends to take for the release of salaries of the armed forces and police. And, again with regard to expenditure, with regard to the reduction of expenditure of 3% requested from each Ministry, we ask how this measure will impact on the defence budget, taking into account the high operational efficiency that the system requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u10	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, there is a crucial issue that, in the opinion of Forza Italia, the Government must clarify: how do the needs of spending review reconcile with the request of our allies to increase defence expenditure to 2% of gross domestic product, due to new international emergencies. This is an issue made even more urgent in the light of the Premier's statements at the recent NATO summit in Wales. Renzi, in fact, has assured that Italy will be part of the international coalition against the Islamic caliphate, but has also added a very ambiguous post, asserting that the military expenses, like those for politics, are perceived by the Italians as waste and that the Government must account for this to the public. We believe that, at this historic moment, the waste of defence expenditure is, as well as wrong, also and above all ungenerous towards our soldiers engaged in the front line of international missions. For decades, the defensive umbrella of the United States and NATO has led Italian governments to drastically reduce defence expenditure, which has been reduced by almost 20% over the last ten years. But in the new panorama of world politics and with the outbreaks of the NATO crisis, countries that want to have an adequate international stature are required to have a valid military instrument, with rapid intervention capability in the crisis areas. We expect a clear answer from the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u13	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, Madam Minister, in relation to the expenses incurred by the Defense, he wondered whether a calculation of the costs attributable to the conduct of fire drills at the Italian military polygons was available. It should be noted that, among these costs, there are also those borne by the local communities of the territories that host the polygons: costs and charges of environmental order (pollution, fires, subsidies), health (diseases contracted by soldiers and civilians due to the exercises in focus) and economic (due to the non-alternative use of the areas and limitations to the activities already present). Having said that, we wonder why the Italian State does not take into consideration the hypothesis of identifying alternative areas, even abroad, farther from the inhabited places and less valuable from the environmental point of view than the Italian polygons currently existing, to carry out the indispensable minimum of exercises, cutting those now prevalent of a clearly not defensive but offensive nature. Italian polygons and military airports are also used by foreign armed forces. How much do they pay to use them? For the interforce range of Salto di Quirra and Teulada, in Sardinia, I have heard about revenue in the order of 50,000 euros for every hour of exercise. What percentage of this income is polygons used as compensation to local host populations? In particular, according to the program of upcoming exercises at the military polygons in Sardinia, the participation, as well as NATO allies, of their partners is expected. Will armed forces of currently belligerent states, such as Israel or Ukraine, also participate in these exercises? And, if so, what revenue will Italy have from these foreign Armed Forces and how much costs in the face of these revenues? We would also be interested to know whether submarines, helicopters or other military means are planned in the near future.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u16	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, Madam Minister, we are on the eve of the budgetary session in the Senate and, as far as the government is concerned, the presentation of the Stability Act. From this point of view, in terms of defence expenditure, it is appropriate to return to the Government's commitment to the new model of defence, to the White Paper which provides for and defines the remodulation of expenditure and of that same commission - which I believe you set up at the time of your appointment - under the leadership of the Dicastery. Clearly, the speech on the new defence model tends to reappear in the appointments or missed appointments of European defence. It is a very ancient speech, which in the history of Europe and Italy seems to me to date back to the first half of the fifties, and has repeatedly emerged even in the months of his leadership of the Defense Dicastery. Then, together with the news about the committee, the White Paper and the new defence model, I would like to ask you, precisely in the presence of the new international situation where I acknowledge that I have never refused comparisons, contacts and information to the Senate, if it is not the case to speed up towards a European defence model or perhaps, more likely, to permanently dismiss this somewhat rhetorical image, proposed from time to time in the margins of international opportunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u19	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, Madam Minister, despite the majority that supported the Letta Government last year approved, in both branches of Parliament, motions that committed the Government not to proceed with the further purchase of new F-35 bombers, the Government has disregarded the commitments made in Parliament by continuing the purchase of new fighters. For months now the news has been known about a further increase in costs for the F-35. During 2013, the price for building the Lockheed superhunt rose by another $7.4 billion: the figure is contained in the Washington Ministry of Defense's report on the most exhilarating program in history. The global estimate, updated now, has reached the stratospheric figure of $1,400 billion. And Italy will also have to take charge of the increase, distributed in proportion to the 90 aircraft that our country has announced to buy. In various motions filed in the Chamber of Deputies, and currently under discussion, the Government is asked, even by members of majority parties, to review the entire F-35 programme to clarify its criticalities and costs, with the final objective of halving the originally planned financial budget. In view of this, I would therefore ask you to provide an exact assessment of the costs incurred so far with regard to our country's participation in the F-35 programme, to provide the contracts of the already acquired lots, as well as the time planning of future purchases.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u22	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, these days the much-discussed spending review seems to be finally taking shape, which will serve to provide the Government with a large part of the coverage for the reforms planned and which will develop in line with the Stability Act. Commissioner Cottarelli estimated that spending could be cut by some 20 billion, but, as is well known, cuts are never painless and it will therefore not be easy to achieve the objective. Ministers would have already accepted a general plan on spending cuts of 3% and each Ministry will be called upon to trace the items to which these cuts apply. The debate on the ways in which expenditure could be saved in the defence sector has been repeated several times over the last few years, thus starting a rationalization process: for example, it has often been pointed out that, avoiding overlaps and implementing greater coordination between the bodies that make up our defence system, considerable results could be achieved from the point of view of saving expenditure. I have introduced a bill for the revision of the Body of the Harbour offices with the aim to provide a solution to the overlapping and duplication of participations of the various Corps that operate at sea, in the perspective of a more effective public administration. In the Defence Committee of the Senate there is a cognitive investigation that will lead to the apical summits of the Armed Forces, and also you, Madam Minister. So far I have had the perception that each Audit Body has interpreted my initiative as an act aimed at affecting their institution when instead the goal is precisely to rationalise and improve coordination, with the ultimate aim of saving resources. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what steps you intend to take to avoid overlaps in the defence sector, as part of the spending review, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u25	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Madam Minister, with regard to military expenditure for many years now we are talking about the disposal of the real estate no longer used by the armed forces. A heritage of goods in terms of various structures no longer useful to the Defense and which, appropriately valued, could lead to a significant saving of expenditure to be able to articulate on other slopes in suffering. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, in this respect, for the provisions that are being implemented in these hours with regard to the release of the wage ceiling for the categories of the sector in 2015. We know that buildings that are no longer useful have a cost of maintenance, which is not always realized, with logical repercussions both in terms of structural decay of buildings, and in terms of erarial damage. Over the last twenty years the disposal of this heritage has been a battlehorse of governments that have been leading this country, but that in fact, if we look at the data, have achieved very little, considering that in 2003 the percentage of state property sold at auctions was 60 percent, while in 2012 it has drastically dropped to 17 percent. The savings analyses have been repeated over the last few years. On the other hand, she wanted to propose the theme with force, also pointing out the repercussions in terms of work, living spaces, wealth and growth for the country. Not to mention the paradox, all Italian, of an Administration that has unused buildings, on the one hand, and, on the other, in some cases, also of offices for rent at exosite fees. I would therefore like to ask you, Madam Minister, what the Government is actually doing in relation to the disposal of real estate no longer used by the armed forces. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, has the power to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u26	Mr President, with regard to the salary freeze, I would like to point out that it has existed since 2011, i.e. for four years, and paradoxically the rule on the specificity of the security, defence and public aid sector was adopted in 2010. I say this because there is a sort of contradiction in this. The rule on the salary block, which applies to almost all civil servants, is particularly distressing for the sector, as you mentioned, Senator Vattuone, because it is based on a hierarchical-functional system in which career progression and service seniority are essential factors. A block of this kind penalizes merit and those who have more responsibility and places a difference of treatment between those who have the same rank and perform the same functions. I would like to remind you that previous governments have introduced this disparity, extended it and have not resolved it. We are strongly committed to resolving the situation. In particular, Minister Alfano and I, but with the involvement of the Presidency of the Council, despite the difficult economic situation, which is not easier than the previous ones, we are finding the resources. Even yesterday, as you have read from the press, there was a meeting at the Presidency of the Council to identify and share the resources needed to finally unlock the situation and I am confident that this goal so awaited by the Forces of the sector can be achieved. As far as spending cuts of 3% are concerned, this year the request is addressed to all the ministries that have to contribute in the same way and we are choosing where to save. It is right and proper that no linear cuts should be made but that choices should be made and, even when we provided the 400 million to finance the 80 euro measure, their finding was the result of defence choices. We are making these choices wisely, making reductions that allow us, however, to maintain the degree of efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces without losing the level of security of the country. The proposal is being examined by the technical offices of the Economy, which are being compared with the Defense. With regard to the issue, mentioned by Senator Mazzoni, of the NATO Summit and the demand to increase defence expenditure to 2% of GDP by 2020, in the last ten years, defence spending has been reduced by 27%, as stated by the independent Stockholm Institute, SIPRI. The strongest cuts were made in 2005 and by the government that led the country from 2008 to 2011. You will remember which governments it is and, since I know that Senator Mazzoni was a member of the Defence Commission, he will remember how much these cuts cost at that time. The declaration that has been made to NATO calls for expenditure to increase to 2% in relation to GDP growth: therefore, it is a trend demand, from here to ten years, linked to GDP growth. In addition, it is required that there be at least 20 percent in investment, and in this, so to speak, Italy is there. I would also like to point out that Italy, which is currently around 1% as expenditure on the defence sector, is, however, the force that contributes most to the missions in the UN and we also give the highest levels of capacity in NATO and the European Union. We will avoid waste, but we will certainly not lose the central elements of security. There are many questions about polygons and I try to answer them in a synthetic way. The exercises are indispensable, otherwise the Armed Forces cannot be held in operation: we cannot send Armed Forces into territories even difficult and dangerous without them exercising. The drill funds absorb a significant part of the exercise part of the defence budget. All countries have training areas and Italy has a smaller extension: one third of France, as well as one third of the United Kingdom, Spain or Poland. The exercises are held in Italy, but also, for Italy, are held in other countries of the European Union or the Alliance. Generally there is a rotational criterion, because very often exercises are done in a joint way. We pay contributions to the municipalities and compensation to categories of workers, in particular fishermen and shepherds. Overall, the fall-back is 20 million, of which the most significant part is for Sardinia. In this semester there are no exercises, neither of Israel nor of Ukraine. As far as the question of European defence is concerned, this is a very important issue. We're trying to make progress this semester, and I don't think it needs to be closed down. Even at the last meeting we held as Ministers of Defence of all European countries, chaired by Italy, we raised the problem of the Battle Group, which exists but has never been used. Like all ministers, we have developed an operational proposal to use this structure and then take a step forward in order to bring together common arrangements and move forward the Battle Group project. On the F-35 I categorically deny that the Government has disregarded or proceeded in disregard of what was contemplated or decided by the motions approved by Parliament in June and July 2013 and since it was my care to be very careful that none of the written things were disregarded, since the motion was approved until the cognitive investigation was concluded and the multiannual programmatic document (DPP) 2014-2016, on which there was the agreement of the Joint Commissions, did not go ahead in any way on the F-35. Therefore, if anyone continues to say such a thing, bear the evidence, because I have not defied what Parliament is asking in any way. Having said that, a whole series of other questions are answered in the report that the Government made on June 24 presenting the DPP. In this program you will find everything: what lot we are, what numbers there are, what contracts are signed. Just go and look at the report made to Parliament. This programme has been going on since 1998 and has cost 2.7 billion to date in 15 years. We do not have, as far as we are concerned, an increase in costs and there are a number of companies that are working: 30 large companies and 60 small and medium-sized companies. The penultimate point concerns overlaps and is very important. As far as defence is concerned, the problem of possible overlaps or imbalances will be dealt with in the White Paper. The theme you have raised, Senator Battista, is more all-embracing and interministerial and I think it is an important suggestion from this point of view. It is no coincidence that the President of the Council, Renzi, also stressed that it is necessary to see whether there are overlaps and where greater coordination is needed: I think that we must intervene at three hundred and sixty degrees and also in the work of the spending review I think that we can make some progress. As far as defence is concerned, as you know, we are preparing a reform of the military instrument, which already provides for a decrease in the numbers of structures as well, and certainly for Europe we are pushing on common structures. With regard to the issue of the disposal of defence buildings (to which Senator Di Biagio is particularly attentive), we are aware as a Government of the difficulties encountered in the past in this field, which have produced delays and diseconomies. In my determination to work concretely and promptly to reduce unproductive costs, to make available to communities infrastructure no longer necessary and to acquire additional resources to the defence budget (as we know, reduced in recent years), I have constituted - as I think you remember, Senator Di Biagio - a task force formed by 14 units, of which 10 officers of the Armed Forces experts in the field, and I have appointed a free advisor of sector. In these six months four protocols have been signed respectively with the Municipalities of Florence, Rome, Milan and Turin (to which will shortly be added other Municipalities), which concern 21 buildings or barracks for their transformation or valorization. With the ANCI I have signed a letter of intent for the search for normative tools of simplification and acceleration of the processes of valorization of the real estate. In this way it will be possible to exploit and retrain important portions of urban areas and at the same time reduce expenditure, reduce public debt and reduce liabilities. The so-called decree-law unlocks Italy, just published, introduces, in article 26, measures and certain times in the activities of valorization of unused state property, starting from the identification of the good to be valued until the eventual appointment of a commissioner ad acta. In particular, identified the real estate to be allocated to the purposes of valorization and recovery, within thirty days the Ministry of Defense and the Agency of State can propose to the Municipality a plan for the recovery of the real estate, that will therefore be the subject of a dedicated program agreement. This agreement, to be concluded within 90 days, constitutes a variant of intended use, which needs to be ratified within the next 30 days. If the programme agreement is not implemented within 90 days of its conclusion, the Minister may propose the appointment, subject to prior notice, of a Commissioner ad acta who shall ensure the procedures necessary for the variant. Finally, it is working so that, probably already in the next law of stability, other opportunities are included for the sale and sale of additional properties and valuable housing no longer necessary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u29	VATTUONE (PD). Madam Minister, we thank you and welcome the response, where the concrete objective of eliminating the wage freeze is being set. We are of the opinion and we share with you that the elimination of the wage freeze is not only a signal due to the staff of the sector to which we constantly ask for a high operational efficiency in difficult and weary activities, but also a measure that in fact increases our framework of system.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u32	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am relatively satisfied with Mr Pinotti's reply. In the last fifteen years there has been a competition between governments of all colors to cut defense expenses and, therefore, I would not be giving licenses. Now the problem is that the time to define the future of our military capability is not much longer: within a few weeks we will have to decide on the financing of crucial programs, such as the Joint Strike Fighter, and the choice to proceed or not in the purchase plan of the F-35 could have important effects on the Defense budget and its overall ability to intervene. Well, President Renzi has proposed that additional investment to reach 2% of GDP be excluded from the Stability Pact. The Premier is currently also the pro-tempore President of the European Union and has just received the appointment of his Minister for Foreign Affairs to the High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security of the European Union. The proposal makes sense: let us see, therefore, whether the Italian Government will have the authority to impose it in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u35	Cotti (M5S). Minister Pinotti's answer shows that the costs incurred in the territories of the populations hosting the polygons are not really to be calculated. In fact, compensation has been mentioned, but I understand that these are less than EUR 10 per hectare per month; and I stress that all the compensation that local populations receive in one month, for example, for the use of the range of Salto di Quirra is taken in only two hours of rent of the base to foreign armies, if it is true that it costs EUR 50,000 per hour. So this is an absolutely colonial logic, to be denounced. If at least our exercises were truly defensive, then perhaps they would serve; instead our exercises have a purely offensive nature, because we even practice bombing villages... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u38	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I rise to take note of the fact that the Italian Government and in some way the major European governments have no intention of closing down a common European defence model. Moreover, in my intention there was not the ancient solicitation of the less Atlantic clause of the European countries, which was the traditional role of the Gollist France, half a century ago. Certainly the international scenario, which the Minister is well aware of and has brought to Parliament's attention many times, is very difficult and very unbalanced. We have, at least for a few weeks, France which has taken the place of England in Europe as the most pro-American country. All the more so, I welcome this opportunity for internal reflection on defence issues, which, otherwise, have seen the international aspect as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u41	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). I am partially satisfied with the reply. I must say that if you, Minister, categorically deny new purchases by the Italian Government, I am satisfied. But I would also be interested to understand the cost, for our Government, of these companies that are working further on this project, I believe for the construction of parts of the F-35. So - I repeat - I am partially satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u44	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I note that there is a desire on the part of the Government to move towards greater rationalization. Precisely for this reason, since you mentioned the word 'interministerial', Madam Minister, I hope that, just as there must be greater coordination within the Armed Forces, there will also be greater coordination between the various Ministries, also because you know very well and you know better than I do that, with the revision of the 2012 military instrument, we must go down to 50% (against 66) of staff expenditure. I therefore hope that the last legislative decree, which provides for the prior consent of the personnel for the transfer between the various ministries, may be corrected or can be followed up on the original initiative of reform of the military instrument.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u47	DI BIAGIO (PI). Thank you, Madam Minister, for the evidence. I am very pleased and am pleased to see that the intentions announced on the various occasions of confrontation with Parliament are finding a tangible realization. I believe that what you have highlighted can be considered as a not negligible premise of the path of disposal of the defence heritage, within the broader framework of that of the State, and I find it particularly interesting the definition of a directing booth on the subject, which can represent the point of mediation of joint interests of the Ministries, bodies and institutions interested in real estate, because the ability to recomplement the functionality of these real estate structures, in my opinion, also has a fundamental relapse in terms of livability and growth, in many respects, for our country. I am pleased to see that on this issue the Government and you, Madam Minister, show attention and the willingness to act in practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u48	Let us now turn to questions concerning military operations and international security, which will be answered by the Minister of Defence, Mr Pinotti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u51	Mr Pegorer (PD). Madam Minister, the NATO summit held in Wales in recent days is considered by several parties to be historic, perhaps the most important meeting of the Alliance since the fall of the Berlin Wall. In fact, never before had the international community been faced with such serious and widespread threats to stability at the same time, and the security conditions of the international scenario have never been so difficult. In this complex and complex context, Italy was able to obtain at the summit a special attention on the themes present in the Mediterranean area, but, as is well known, the two main points of discussion concerned the crisis in Eastern Europe and the very serious threat posed by the advance of jihadist extremism, with the constitution of the caliphate of ISIS between Syria and Iraq. The results of the summit, with respect to which the contribution made by our country has been decisive, give us the achievement of a common position, both with regard to the European dossier, and with regard to the initiatives agreed between the allies to face the advance of the so-called Islamic State. I therefore believe that the decision taken by our country to participate actively in the international effort against the terrorist extremism represented by ISIS, as a pervasive and global threat, can also catalyse and coagulate the different extremists of jihadist matrix. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you to know, in addition to what has already been decided by the Government and Parliament in August, what will be the effective Italian contribution to the international alliance to combat the caliphate of ISIS.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u54	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, Italy will complete its mission to Afghanistan by 31 December, which began 12 years ago. However, like some of our allies, our country would retain a large number of military advisors - we are talking about 800 - while Britain, which also exercised a much greater historical-political influence in that area, would be limited to 200 units. In the light of the reduced spending capacity, aggravated by the announced spending review, and of the new international emergencies at our doorstep, given the commitments made by the Renzi Government starting from the entry into the coalition against the Islamic caliphate of ISIS, I ask whether it is not appropriate, in conjunction with the allies, to favour scenarios that have become more strategic for our national interest, rather than to maintain significant contingents of men and means in areas where operational needs have significantly decreased compared to the beginning of missions, such as Kosovo, or in areas that are certainly still at risk, such as Lebanon, but where the bulk of the multinational force is supplied mainly by Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who fortunately listen to us from outside, I come from a statement of 3 September, in which Mrs Ministro, during the session of the Joint Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, argued that there is a possibility that some of the current crises, and I am thinking first of all of the crisis in Libya, may further degenerate, potentially having serious effects on the security of Italy, and continued by saying that we must maintain our capacity to cope with unforeseen events. In the light of this declaration and of what is foreseen within the so-called Decree-Law Missions, which provides for the refinancing of the three missions with the employment of Italian Armed Forces and Police, the 5 Star Movement asks you, Madam Minister, if the quotas used will be numerically equal to the previous semester and therefore asks you to know how they can carry out what are defined as non-executive functions, considering that Libya is a theatre of real civil war, where not only the diplomatic representations of all the various countries have abandoned their seats, but even the Libyan Government itself is exile and is forced to meet in places of fortune. Madam Minister, in light of the direct involvement, during the early stages of the Libyan crisis, of the military airports and also civilians of Trapani Birgi and Pantelleria, the 5 Star Movement wants to know if these bases, or other bases in the Italian territory, will again be involved in actions to support military operations in Libya.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u60	Comrade (NCD). Madam Minister, a few moments ago, Mr Pegorer, recalling the historic significance of the NATO Summit in Wales, noted how, from the point of view of the decision, this summit had important reflections especially in Ukraine. I would therefore ask you whether this does not seem to you to be a bit of a contradiction between the Alliance and the Alliance, in the sense that NATO is the least suitable international body to be present and even to have a voice on the issue of Ukraine. From this point of view, from Piazza Maidan onwards, they fed, perhaps dictated by instrumental reasons, a certain victimism and a certain aggressiveness on the part of Russia. Do you not think it is appropriate, from the point of view of the Minister of Defence, to find a balance and composure of presence on the ground of international relations for Europe and the Atlantic Alliance? The Ukrainian question must remain entirely within the OSCE and avoid adventures, even lexical ones, that commit the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u63	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam Minister, I ask you to know whether, because of the new crisis situations in the Middle East, North Africa and Eastern Europe, an intensification of Italy's international commitment is planned, whether this intensification will have an effect on the activities of our armed forces or of allied forces in national polygons or training areas and, in particular, in Sardinia, whether a direct or indirect engagement of men, weapons in such crisis situations, and how this can be related - you are certainly aware of this - to a question that is now widespread and bipartisan coming from the island to discuss, rationalize, reduce, perhaps even overcome, the enormous burden of servitude that Sardinia has always endured. Madam Minister, on this subject it is a matter of opening, also respecting the international commitments of our country, a confrontation between Region and State that seems urgent to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u66	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Dear Minister, we must express to you a strong dismay and a strong concern for what is happening: two official armies seem overwhelmed by groups of rebels technically certainly less endowed and at this moment are controlling important slices of territories. I am referring to Syria, Iraq and ISIS. What they want to express is probably a model for the whole Islamic world: the supremacy of Sunni extremist fanaticism. What are their aims and their aims a bit 'we understand it: expand their influence and recruit even in our Countries of the fighters and perform - it is what worries us most - striking gestures. We also know from the shores of the Mediterranean that thousands of illegals come to our country every month. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. How are our military services monitoring the situation? Are there any parental ties between terrorists and people on our territory? In recent periods are Italian citizens from those countries (Syria and Iraq) who have certainly not gone to seek employment in those places? What degree of tranquility can our intelligence and defence system offer us? If you, Madam Minister, can offer us more information on this matter, I will be grateful.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u69	DI BIAGIO (PI). Madam Minister, military operations and international security are closely related issues and are constantly the subject of political controversy and exploitation, which unfortunately often lead to a deterioration of the very nature of our presence in the theatres of international cooperation because of a obstructive attitude, which in fact hinders a serene deepening of the substance of all the issues connected with the complex dynamics that accompany the actual carrying out of the missions themselves. I recall here that in these missions our involvement, aimed at peace keeping and international cooperation objectives, has helped to renew the credibility of Italy on the international scene, precisely because of the seriousness, professionalism and - let me say this - of humanity with which our military - which in this case goes all the closeness of the citizens - have always declined cooperation in difficult scenarios, among which is undoubtedly that of Afghanistan. Today we are just a few months from the imminent conclusion of the ISAF mission in Afghanistan and the commitment and seriousness with which our country has ensured a collaborative and active presence in that complex scenario puts us to deepen on these twelve years of Italian presence, also for an evaluation that can provide strategic elements and indications on the areas of international mission in which we are engaged. I would therefore ask you what the government's political assessment of the ISAF mission, in terms of its achievements, is about to be completed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Mr Pinotti, may answer jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u70	Mr President, first of all, I would like to make a general point which in some way forms the basis for a number of questions that have been asked about the NATO summit. In the two ministerial summits that preceded it and in which the important summit held in Newport was prepared, Italy had emphasized with great care that one could not focus exclusively or almost exclusively on the problem of the East, therefore the crisis between Ukraine and Russia, but that these facts were taking place in the South that could only increase, and by much, the international attention. A work has been done by Italy to this end: just before the NATO summit, for example, I brought together the French, Spanish and Portuguese ministers in Venice precisely because we were concerned that there was a whole attention to the East, where we saw in the South, not only in Libya, but also for everything that was becoming ISIS, or for what has already happened in Syria for some time, or for the situation in Gaza, a situation of extreme danger. These situations have then become pronounced and at this point everyone is recognizing them, but I must say that there has been a role of Italy and an analysis on the part of our country that has brought them to the attention. In reply to Senator Pegorer's first question, there was therefore political action from this point of view, we immediately decided to make our contribution and here I take advantage of your question to clarify. Sometimes it seems that our country has given things that are not needed, weapons in disuse etc., but there has been a job: the Armed Forces have worked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the Services, there have been interlocutors on site to whom we have told what we could have had available and who have told us what could be needed; there are yes machine guns but also antitank weapons. A sort of controversy arose over the fact that Italy would give little ammunition; in reality our country gives the ammunition it has available (also because if you have to make new acquisitions, you need time), but it also coordinated with other European countries (so Albania provides many more). So, there was actually a coordinated job. I would not like, as usual, to recognize serious work and the capabilities of our armed forces - which exist - to think that Italy does not know how to play its role. This is not the case: Italy in the defense field makes excellent international figures and in this case too we have responded to what is required. Of course, there may be new needs. At present, for example, we have sent some officers to Tampa's central command, because multinational operations are planned and there may be other demands. For the time being, we have made available, if necessary, for a refueling plane or for trainers, but if other requirements arise, we will assess them and, of course, submit them to Parliament. With regard to what Senator Divine said about the extent of this fundamentalist threat, with this idea of holy war and the global destruction of elementary human rights, which in terms of risk concerns us, but above all the Arab countries, I believe that this is a situation that we absolutely cannot underestimate. So, what else to do we will evaluate from time to time, obviously together with the allies, but with a willingness of our country. Senator Alicata's question is closely related to all of this. It is true, since we have been engaged in Afghanistan, even since we started talking about the mission that will replace the ISAF mission, namely the Resolution support, is changing the world and I think it is serious that we are doing this reflection together. We are doing this at government level and we will of course submit it to Parliament. There are commitments previously made by Italy, which played an important role in Afghanistan, where it had the command of a specific region, so we must also reason on this in order not to let an operation that also concerns the allies be discovered. However, I believe that it is important, even in the light of the fact that we are in the Mediterranean Sea and in the light of what is happening before us, to make an overall assessment. It is an assessment that the Government is making, but that we will obviously have to and we would like to share with Parliament because I think it is a fundamental point. As for Libya and the question about the mission decree, we move from 4,725 to 4,178 soldiers engaged in operations. Libya, as you know, is experiencing a situation of extreme difficulty, unfortunately. There is a new elected Parliament but there is also the previous one that continues to exist; there are, in fact, two prime ministers. In Libya there is an absolutely out-of-control situation with a very strong conflict. You also know that Italy, precisely because of the historical role and the kind of ties that exist with that country, has maintained the embassy, unlike almost all other European countries; this is a sign of commitment. At present, however, no action has been planned because at the moment there is no internal interlocutor, nor is there a general decision taken by a body such as the European Union or others. There is therefore no programming for Italy. Of course, we feel strongly committed. We had a schedule that provided for the formation of the Libyan Armed Forces that we carried out until they could be selected on site. We are now waiting, but we are well aware that this is a subject to which Italy will have to play a role. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I think I have responded by talking about Italy's role. On the request made by Senator Uras regarding these crises, I respond by saying that the pre-empted intervention to date is contained in the Mission Decree, which concluded its iter to the Chamber of Deputies and is about to arrive in the Senate. To date, therefore, this is the programming, but I imagine that the next mission decree will contain some new features. We'll have time to discuss this together. The planning of the exercises, in fact, takes place in the usual way. It is usually done not months, but years in advance, depending on the type of exercise. At this moment we are not expecting an increase in overall planning, but I thank you, Senator Uras, for the sensitivity shown by linking the exercises with the current crises and therefore the need that we might have to use our Armed Forces, because without those exercises we could not think of using them in difficult theaters. At the same time, however, you have posed a problem that we have present and that has always been particularly felt (in this period perhaps even more): the theme of Sardinia and the weight of military servitudes. We have signed with Puglia and Friuli Venezia-Giulia a protocol of understanding. We did not do this with Sardinia because there were no conditions, but, as I said on that occasion (and I repeat that), we are interested in finding an agreement with that Region, providing, where possible, to make these servitudes weigh less on Sardinia. From this point of view, a job with the Region is starting. I really hope that we can keep together the reasons of the territory, of Sardinia, with the reasons and needs of the armed forces that exist. The Divine Senators, apart from the reasoning about fundamentalism and extremist fanaticism, asked very specific questions about illegal immigrants, also asking some questions (such as those on parental relations between terrorists and specific people) to which I cannot answer. Although it is not an argument that directly concerns the defence sector, even if it concerns the sphere of security, if you are interested - as far as possible - I will provide you with the relevant data. However, I can assure you that Italy has a much smaller number than other nations of these subjects: up to now there have been about 50 so-called foreign fighters, while, for example, there are thousands in France and England and also in Germany. This does not mean underestimating the phenomenon, because the attention is still maximum. As I have said on other occasions, we raise the level of attention, but not because Italy has a particular situation compared to the other European nations: the moment, however, creates new tensions and, therefore, we raise the level of attention. However, there is no specific Italian problem. With regard to the issue of illegal immigrants, at least as regards, for example, the Mare nostrum mission, there is not only a reception of illegal immigrants when they are rescued by the ships of our Navy: not only is a health screening carried out, but, inside the ships of Mare nostrum, there are officials of the Ministry of the Interior who try to identify the hullers - it has been done several times - and the presence of dangers of other kind. Therefore, careful and careful work is carried out in the context of operation Mare nostrum.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u73	Mr Pegorer (PD). Madam Minister, thank you for your precise and detailed reply. In any case, I would like to point out - and I believe you can share what I am about to say - the need for international law enforcement, in order to be effective, to be able to combine military pressure, intelligence, economic leverage and instruments of diplomacy and intercultural dialogue in order to isolate and contain culturally, and not only militarily, the extremism of ISIS. On the other hand, the most recent history gives us the fact that an exclusively military response does not, unfortunately, reduce the terrorist challenge and no longer achieve stability.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u76	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). I would just like to say that I am quite satisfied with Mr Pinotti's reply, which I thank.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u79	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am completely disappointed by the Minister's statements, which say that there is no programming before a situation, such as the Libyan one, which is absolutely dramatic. I am shocked because I wonder how it is possible for 4,178 Italian military to carry out non-executive functions in a scenario that you yourself, Minister, declared to be absolutely impossible to manage. I ask you, even as a Sicilian, how is it possible that there is no programming and that we do not know what are the bases that could possibly be used. I remember that at the beginning the airport of Trapani Birgi - it happened also in Sardinia - has been closed from today to tomorrow. So, it leaves me very, very unsatisfying, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u82	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the complex, very broad and problematic framework he has dealt with: the impending Libyan tribal dissolution, the fierce constitution of the new Islamic State - they want to be called it - and the implications of the international bodies between the Baltic and the Middle East. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that today's debate in the Senate has documented the Assembly's role - which has been appropriate for a week - to pronounce the last word - hopefully - on the decree-law extending international missions, not without noting - if the President permits me - an excess of monocameral selfishness that always leads the Senate to intervention in the area of Cesarini.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u85	URAS (Misto-SEL). I note the punctual and also very explicit picture of the situation that the Minister has outlined to us today. As a Sardinian, I am pleased that there is a commitment from the Government to address the issue of the weight of servitude, because the situation is now becoming more social and also of the quality of the deployment that deals with this matter. I remain concerned - this is true - about the situation that we are experiencing at international level, which does not reassure anyone, let alone the regions that must ensure a commitment, such as that required of Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u88	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, you must also understand the concern of us Italians, who feel one of the most exposed. In fact, when illegals arrive you can easily mix with each other and enter people of all kinds, including those who threaten to send, or recruiters to lay bases or fifth columns in our country. We know that second and third generation Italian foreigners are the most easily accessible victims. Let us remember the old history of ancient Rome, of imperial Rome. Rome fell when, by now dominating the Mediterranean and no longer managing to control the borders, it was forced to recruit legions on the spot. But we know that if they recruit soldiers there, they never shoot their brothers. We wouldn't want history to repeat itself in our day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u91	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, thank you even though you have not had time to give me your opinion in view of the tight times of the Presidency, also because the results achieved confirm my belief that our participation in international missions is not an option to be followed or hindered according to political moods. Any attempt to label these missions, as peace or war, completely degrades its real meaning and mortifies the concrete action of men and women, our military, who have always been ambassadors of that respect for human life, which must be at the heart of any intervention in even difficult scenarios such as those we are considering. All this deserves awareness and support, which testifies to the importance of the Italian presence, whose concreteness and activity deserves all the support of the institutions, first of all of Parliament, without ideological or biased preclusions.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u94	Mr Pinotti, Minister for Defence. Mr President, I only take the floor to apologise, because unfortunately, because of the tight deadlines, I did not realize that I had missed the response of Senator Di Biagio, who I had actually prepared, but since the mission decree will soon be under discussion, I will have the opportunity to list all the work done and the results of the mission in Afghanistan. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u95	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-314.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
