ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u4	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 2-b. The rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u9	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I would like to outline the variation report on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document adopted on 14 October. The Report updates the public finance policy objectives of the Note and is set out in the 2015 budget policy document sent to the European institutions. In particular, it changes the 2015 net debt target, which improves from 2.9 percent of GDP to 2.6%. By letter dated 22 October 2014, the Vice President of the European Commission launched a consultation phase with the Italian Government on the 2015 plan. In the letter, the Government was asked for guarantees on compliance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. As a result of the letter, although the Government is not obliged by the content of the script, which contains no quantitative constraints, it today submits to us the additional measures to improve the programmatic net debt. The measures are three for a total of 4.5 billion improvements, of which 3.3 billion derive from the cancellation of the increase in the tax burden reduction fund. I remember that the fund had been established by Law No 147 of 2013. From 2015 onwards, 730 million was recovered from the strengthening of measures to combat tax evasion by extending the reverse charge mechanism for VAT to the large retail sector. So there is an enlargement of the audience, so to speak. Since the effectiveness of the measure is subject to the granting of a derogation by the Council of the European Union, there is a special safeguard clause providing for the increase of excise duties to guarantee the highest anticipated revenue. It is also expected to recover 500 million from the partial reduction of the resources made available for the co-financing of the European Structural Funds exempted from the regions' spending targets for the purposes of the Internal Stability Pact. In summary, the net debt expected in the 2014 DEF for 2015 was 2.2 percent of GDP. During the review of the Update Note, among the maneuvers aimed at supporting growth, we had approved a debt of 2.9 percent. With this variation report, compared with a reduction of 4.5 billion, net debt falls to 2.6%. This is the result of a mediation, in my opinion fair, carried out by the Government with respect to a broad objective of growth. The structure of the stability bill for 2015 and the growth support objectives are maintained as a whole, despite the proposed reductions. The expected macroeconomic effects of these additional measures do not substantially alter the policy forecasts presented in the DEF Update Note. In line with the revision of the net debt of the public administration, in 2015 the target of the cash balance indicated in the DEF 2014 Update Note, and consequently the public debt, are revised. In a nutshell, therefore, the net programmatic balance of the state budget to be financed, net of the accounting regulations, debtors and VAT refunds, is redetermined in -54 billion in 2015. The additional measures envisaged by the Government and the subsequent revision of the objective of the net balance to be financed from the State budget will be detailed with a subsequent amendment that the Government will submit to the draft Stability Act for 2015-2017. The European Commission announced last night that it does not intend to reject the Member States' budgets in full. This decision came about as a result of the promise of measures to reduce the public deficit in advance to the European institutions by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on 27 October. The measures identified represent a great effort for our country in view of the exceptional situation, of three consecutive years of recession of economic activity and in the presence of increasing risks of deflation for the Italian economy. So the government has done well to use all the flexibility possibilities already contained in the rules. By the end of November, Brussels will have to publish a completed analysis of the texts. Our situation remains delicate because the threat of an excessive macroeconomic balance process weighs on the country. Moreover, I believe that a very constructive report has been set out, which also indicates, in the act that we are going to examine today, all the good will of our Government in maintaining its commitments, while using all the possibilities to give space to growth and development. In conclusion, the proposed measures, although not irrelevant, because the weight is considerable (4.5 billion), do not affect the objectives of growth and development of the overall manoeuvres necessary to revive the growth contained in the Update Note to the DEF. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u10	I say that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u11	Madam President, we are once again debating the 2014 Economy and Finance Document Update Note, just fifteen days after its approval, in which we have taken a decidedly opposite position. A position we confirm, noted the worsening of the general picture. The debate whether, in the discussion and negotiation between the European Commission and the Government, it has won one or the other is, in our view, a matter of little account, which little enthusiasts us. We have the certainty that, in the end, they have lost further citizens, the country, because the result is that there are still more taxes, less services and less investment. This is the reality of the data. The fact, therefore, that President Renzi returns to Italy claiming that he has asphalted the European Commission, but in reality comes back - in our opinion - with his eyes beaten, is yet another manifestation of his attitude: great and roboating proclamations and results few, poor, disappointing, if not worsening of the situation we are experiencing. Let us make such a negative analysis of the government's decisions because, in any case, compared to the indications of the European Commission, it has made some choices, the first of which was to eliminate the fund for reducing the tax burden. This wasn't a forced road. Compared to the whole maneuver, it was decided not to respect one of the first promises made by the President of the Council in his proclamations, namely that this maneuver would reduce the tax burden, more than any other in the history of the Republic. Well, the President-in-Office of the Council returns home and confirms that this was a "bufala" and that the 3.3 billion for reducing the tax burden has been cancelled. The second negative element is the elimination of resources, amounting to 500 million for participation in the financing of the European Structural Funds. This has a devastating effect because it represents a loss of 500 million for investments in public works in the territory in favour of local authorities, regions and municipalities, and above all in fact it will prevent the local authorities themselves from investing their part; all this, therefore, will have very negative effects on the phantom recovery that is promised by the government, from this as from the previous ones, but that is not seen on the horizon. There are, therefore, more taxes and fewer investments and, finally, the fanciful contrast to tax evasion that is expected to produce billions or hundreds of millions. There is an increase in the forecast, which was already optimistic, by establishing that a further €730 million will be made from the fight against tax evasion. This promise is also not based on concrete data, but on expectations, which I would not call optimistic, as they are based on false and unrealistic data. At the end of all these choices, there is the emphasis offered by the Government to the European Commission that, if the results were insufficient and the fight against tax evasion were not effective as promised, there would still be the possibility of applying the safeguard clause that provides for an increase in VAT and excise duties. This is the only firm point that the Italian Government is able to promise the European Commission to justify its manoeuvres. This is a firm point which will have absolutely negative effects on our economy: other than recovery, other than new investments. In fact, the most certain element of this Update Note is the need to apply a further tightening of the tax burden in the coming years. These are the results of the Report of variation to the Update Note that concern us and that determine within us the conviction - even more so than fifteen days ago - that we should not support the action of the Government, but that these propaganda manoeuvres should be rejected. With regard to maneuvers, it is clear that the attitude of the President-in-Office of the Council is irresponsible. At a time when he intends to carry out maneuvers with cuts to local authorities of billions of euros, our concern is not related to the fact that President Zaia, President Maroni, the Presidents of all regions have less resources available. Our concern is with the services that are provided to citizens: we wonder how the regions will ensure the minimum essential services in the field of health or public transport. Three hundred or four hundred million less for the Veneto Region, almost one billion less for Lombardy does not mean to clear waste: they mean drastically reducing essential services. That is the reality. And the President-in-Office cannot always blame local authorities for making cuts. The only truth is that the regions which have a tax credit to the State of twenty or forty billion will see this gap further increased to the detriment of the citizens they represent. This is unacceptable to us and the insurance of the application of the standard costs is only a promise that will not find application. We are sure of that, because we do not trust a President-in-Office of the Council who has only promised and never kept his promises to date. For all these reasons we can only oppose these choices. We are concerned, because in these days, beyond the fanciful reductions in taxes, we are faced with the citizens who have to pay the famous TASI. Beyond the fact that Renzi says it's not his fault, we would simply like to remind the president and secretary of the Democratic Party that the party that presides has supported the Monti and Letta governments, that is, the governments that have applied the tax tightening. He is therefore not credible when he says he wants to do something different. For all these reasons, Mr President, we can only give a negative assessment of variation and hope that sooner or later citizens will understand that the government is simply based on promises, illusions that will bring no concrete improvement to the lives of our citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u12	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u13	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly because I reserve the right to do so in greater detail in the explanation of vote. In the meantime, I would like to stress that we fear that this will be the first change in the Update Note, because dialogue, or rather even a tough confrontation with the European Union, does not stop at this stage, but is developing, so surprises can be confirmed and even aggravated. The second question that I would like to highlight concerns the way in which we are voting in relation to the variation report under consideration. It is well known that we are obliged by the Constitutional Charter to pursue a balanced budget, and it is also known to all that we have accepted the inclusion - never we would have wanted to do so, having always been opposed to this objective - in the Constitutional Charter of this limit, of this constraint. However, it has been accepted, and then for once you can also think of making a derogation; a second time it becomes a little suspicious and, in case there is a third time, and we are in the third, it is clear and clear that the inclusion of a balance of the budget in the Constitutional Charter was a rash maneuver, a needless service to which we submit. In essence, it means that we are not able to achieve the objective that has been included in the Constitutional Charter. If we were at least a little aware, I say this during the period of reform, we would understand that the first reform to be carried out would be to cancel this reform and bring the Constitutional Charter back to its original drafting, without this limit, without this constraint. In fact, it would also be appropriate to say this to Europe - I come from a fairly interesting debate in the European Union's Policy Commission - of which we do not understand who the sovereign is (surely not the people), that our transfer of sovereignty ends when that direct democratic expression of the people - exclusive direct expression - does not become sovereign, because the sovereignty that we refer to the people in our Constitution cannot be given to a sovereign who is not the same people. And that is true - and I shall conclude - also because of the way in which we vote on this occasion. We have simplified it, perhaps somewhat boldly, and it would have been useful, again this time, to maintain the same constraints that led us to vote on the motions for resolutions of 14 October, in order to show that the issue we are considering must be dealt with in the place and in the ways in which it is right to deal with it because it concerns our economy, the serenity of our companies and our workers, our future. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u14	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u15	Madam President, honourable Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. This afternoon the government will explain to us what happened yesterday, but the important and dramatic aspect of what happened yesterday is that a large multinational, ThyssenKrupp, is preparing to abandon an important plant that has in our country. Italy is the most beautiful country in the world; it hosts about 50% of the world's cultural heritage. Italians are hospitable people; foreign managers living in Italy live well; if they go away it means that they are not in the condition to work well in our country: this is the dramatic situation that we have to face. Meridiana has dismissed 1,650 out of 2,350 workers. The largest shareholder, if not the only one, of Meridiana is Karim Aga Khan: it is not a speculator but the person who invented tourism in the North East of Sardinia, making it one of the most famous in the world. He has put in Meridiana 500 million euros in the last fifteen years and the company is preparing for a dramatic reduction. Do you know what was the response of the new leader of the Democratic Party elected last weekend in Sardinia, MEP Renato Soru? He said that the Region of Sardinia must think of a Sardinian airline. The Regions, which claim that the lower revenues from the state will be detrimental to the citizens, want to use public money to create a new company that loses other public money instead of private. That's the truth! Gentlemen, these people go away but it is not a Freemason Democrat plot; the reality is that the international economic world still does not believe in Italy. The person who, according to many, had no international prestige, that is Silvio Berlusconi, has left since 2011 and have arrived prestigious characters - Monti, Letta and Renzi - with the consent of all the media. The truth is that nobody from abroad arrives in our country: many Italians and many foreigners who work in Italy leave because they do not find the conditions. Today we are examining a document which is the fact that Europe has partially said no to the Government's proposals and the government must reduce them: this is the crude summary of what we are going to examine. For Christ's sake, in the negotiations and in the game of the parties, it was also foreseeable that Europe would not say yes to us completely. The truth is that, after the attitude of Europe, the margins we have left are very small and - frankly - despite the communication skills of the President of the Council, if you do the accounts you do not understand where you find these 18 billion euros that would go into lower taxes. Probably it will be about doing what has already happened with the 80 euros: you give something to someone, but taking away much more to others. In fact, at the basis of the new Stability Pact, which is now facing the House of Deputies and which will arrive in the Senate, there is a figure of 15 billion euros for spending review and a prospect of fighting evasion as no financial law before, or law of stability now, had anticipated. Allow me to say that if anyone has any doubt, it is probably not because of excessive pessimism. At the same time, we see that taxes on buildings, industrial sheds, land and agricultural sheds continue to increase. That is the certainty we are faced with. Forza Italia collaborates with the majority for institutional reforms and is in opposition, but in a responsible way, on other things: we look with great concern and anguish at the present and the economic future of our country. Frankly, we see that the situation continues to worsen. Responsiblely the Minister of Economy said: we are in recession. Unfortunately we don't see the road and the path that makes us see even a small light at the end of the tunnel. We have the feeling of being in the tunnel in a dramatic way and making things worse, rather than improving them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u16	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, we are speaking for the second time on the Update Note, and I would like to express the discomfort and embarrassment we feel in dealing with the issues of the economy of our country, once again, with a great absenteeism among the fundamental issues: the Mezzogiorno of Italy. We continue to propose numerical alchemies, we continue to propose to move from 0.1 to 0.3; it is proposed to adapt our Notes and our budgetary manoeuvres to those which are the dictates of the European Union. We are concerned that these blessed or cursed accounts must completely square from the point of view of regularity in relations with the Union, but no one gives entry to this Parliamentary House, in the highest decision-making body in our country, to what must be the first concern of a government and a parliamentary assembly: the welfare of the citizens whom they intend to represent. In these hours comes out a study, which is certainly not the result of the study center of a party or an association that defends interests of category; it is the study of the SVIMEZ, which draws a terrible image of our country. A country that is living, in these hours, in these days, in these months (for too many months now), the problem of the questioning of national unity, because the country is divided from an economic and therefore social point of view. An institute of the authority of the SVIMEZ is saying that there is a Mezzogiorno of Italy at risk of desertification and we are still here to vary the Notes of 0.1 or 0.2, when families are below zero from the point of view of their hope for the children, for the maintenance of their income and the ability to survive! We're talking about millions of families, who are below the threshold of survival. We can't tolerate this anymore. I appeal to the southern parliamentarians, I appeal to all those who feel the representation of this part of the country to take strong and conscientious action. Today our conscience cannot call us to purely accounting operations, it cannot lead us to hide the dust under the carpet. Today there is despair; in the Mezzogiorno of Italy GDP falls by 2.6%. Do we realize that, even in a system of macroeconomic reading of the country's data, a Mezzogiorno with these numbers makes the overall Italy system regress? Do we realize that national averages are made up of these situations? Until the government decides to deal seriously with the problem and until Parliament, perhaps guiltyly, manages to put the government in crisis and under stress, to make important decisions, then we will not have made the interest of the country and national unity. Yes, we believe in national unity. But national unity must be based on fairness and the ability to represent all the needs. Madam President, the problem is absolutely urgent and does not allow further delay. We need an extraordinary plan. The resources that we are going to negotiate with the European Union cannot fail to take into account the fundamental chapter of cohesion policies, because Europe has a fundamental chapter in cohesion policies, but these policies must be designed in a modern and revitalised sense. It is not enough for us, on the contrary, we find the attitude of the undersecretary Delrio, who says that we will take action on the telematic networks - I am sorry to say a little loudly. What is Delrio talking about? Do you know this part of the country? Do you know these problems? A department, that for economic development and cohesion, sank by the desire to create an additional agency to centralize the total expenditure. It is not the moment of centralism, it is not the moment of dirigism; it is the moment of flexibility of the Government, which must fall into the problems of citizenship and the population. It is the time when choices must be made. Also in this Note of variation we would have liked the Government not only to adjust the accounts, as requested by the European Commission, but also to review its guilty silence with regard to these dramatic issues of our country. I reserve the right, in an explanation of vote, to make further comments, because I know that I have only a few minutes at this stage, and I thank you, Madam President, for giving me plenty of time. Dear friends, this is not a problem of the South, but it is a problem of the country. Italy does not come out of this if it does not tackle these problems as a whole. I therefore call on everyone to express a position of clarity, because here we also play the principle and love for our national unity. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u18	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to make a few considerations closely related to today's issue, namely the revision of the public finance policy objectives set out in the DEF for 2015. I would not, therefore, venture - as others have done - to discuss the law of stability which, as we know, will be at the heart of our debate, first in the House and then in the Senate, in the coming weeks. Let us first of all make it clear that we are talking about an overall improvement in the deficit for 2015 of EUR 4.5 billion and a reduction in nominal net debt to 2.6%; at the same time, we will have an improvement of just over 0.3% in structural net debt. Obviously, such a story can be read in various ways. Some have lingered in somewhat imaginative readings; above all some forces, which in the past have viciously criticized, almost dilapidated, the European institutions, today are struggling to defend their strategies, stand up to champions of rigour in themselves and, in many cases, even a little obtuse, which sometimes, not always, comes from Brussels or Berlin. But let's leave it alone, because I believe that the reconstruction of the facts is actually much simpler than what many people are struggling to hide. This reconstruction tells us that, in order to meet the demands of the European Commission (which, as we know, had emphasized an insufficient reduction of the Italian structural deficit in 2015), Italy undertakes to take additional measures in order to strengthen the fiscal effort that had already been outlined in the draft budget plan and, therefore, to achieve the objective of a faster structural adjustment. The rapporteur has already made clear the choices made by the government and so I do not want to repeat them here. Of course, the agreement is a compromise, but I think it is a good compromise. On the one hand there is the Commission, which - let us remember - had the power, under the new rules, to reject a text, within two weeks of its receipt, if it had found an open violation of the Treaty; of course it is a compromise for which the Commission, in this way, defends its credibility as guardian of the Treaties; but it is also a good compromise for our country and our Government, which has set - let us remember - the law of stability with a clear discontinuity with respect to the past, in the name of the objective of relaunching growth and, by this, also pursuing the aim of managing the high debt stock, looking at the denominator of that famous relationship between debt stock and GDP. It is, therefore, a law of stability that also wants, at European level, to pose the problem of overcoming a purely austerity line, which has so far produced extremely negative results in Europe. It is, of course, a compromise, because from this point of view there has been a correction from the Commission of an attitude which, in the past, had been much more dogmatic, of defending the criteria for the consolidation of public finances: there has been recognition of the need for a certain flexibility and, therefore, of a certain approach. At the same time it is clear that this further effort requested by Brussels weighs on our country; although it should be pointed out that the measures to reduce the tax burden, provided for by the law of stability, will not be affected by the choice to use 3.3 billion of the fund cuts taxes, as has been objected by some, as well as the overall impact on growth and employment will not be significantly altered in any way. It is an impact that remains modest, because the stakes and constraints that come from Europe remain in some way very strong. The question to be asked is: could it be otherwise? Of course, we could go on, choose a hard and pure line of rupture with the European Commission. But to get what? For a sure condemnation of infringement that would come from Brussels, a probable political isolation in Brussels, with our negotiating power reduced almost to zero to affect what is, instead, an important objective for us: the change of policies to be achieved by the new Commission, which will take place on 1 November in Brussels. Of course, the Italian situation remains open because the threat of a procedure for excessive macroeconomic imbalance weighs on the country. But I personally believe that we are also in a position, on the basis of this final choice, to conduct negotiations at European level, which will be tough, on the change of the policies of the new Commission. Look, the stakes are so high these last few weeks. I would summarize the stakes in these terms: for some countries, and among them the creditor countries of the North, we must first do homework and then we will talk about growth. From this point of view our country, through the Government, is questioning this approach, also on behalf of other countries. For us, in fact, fiscal consolidation can only be achieved if it is supported by measures, to be launched immediately, in favour of growth, including a powerful investment policy at European level. It is in the coming weeks and months that this possible discontinuity between the Juncker Commission and Barroso will occur, and it is in favour of this change that the Government wants to work. I believe that with this choice, when it comes to the revision of the objectives, we have somehow consolidated our possible negotiating action today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u20	The debate is closed. I note that the Presidency has received three motions for resolutions: No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta, No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other Senators, and No 3 tabled by Senator Uras and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u21	Madam President, I will make only a very few comments on this debate, which has also been developed in the Commission and offers some ideas for reflection. A first general comment concerns the new way in which this year was discussed in an unusual transparency operation. The negotiations, in fact, did not take place among a few people, but everyone was willing to know the ways in which they were taking place. It is a negotiation with an extremely constructive attitude. The resistances are not only towards Italy, and the numbers of Italy as such; with the beginning of a different season in the modalities of dealing the Government has legitimately used the spaces of flexibility provided for by the European rules, and it continues to do so because however today's variations do not change neither the law of stability as a whole nor the request to Europe to be attentive, not only to the rigour, but to the economic situations of the States, no one excluded. In Europe, in fact, there are currently no states that are good and others that are bad. Even those who are good, since they cooperate and work abroad with their production, must pay attention to the overall good of Europe. Italy has two problems: high debt and low competitiveness. But we do not need Europe to understand these difficulties: the measures that we have adopted by the government would have taken them on its own. The plan to improve potential growth is good. It is important that it be implemented, and that it be implemented for the good of Italy and for the good of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u22	I call Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to whom I would also like to point out which of the motions for resolutions he has tabled, the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u23	Madam President, in the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document, which was adopted by Parliament on 14 October last, net programmatic debt was raised to 2.9 percent of the product (so, just below the 3% threshold), starting from a trend of 2.2%. I would like to dwell, for a moment, on this trend of 2.2%, because I find it curious that no one, or almost no one, values this fact, which is the result of the work not, essentially, of this Government but of the Governments (and not only the last) that preceded it. I would not like it to be the technicalism of language that obscures the political significance of this fact. What does it mean that trend debt goes to 2.2% in 2015? It means that, through the choices made in the past, despite a development of the economy, that is, of the product, particularly negative (we are basically in recession, without interruptions of continuity, since 2007-2008, although, technically, there have been moments of partial return to a situation of very slight growth for a few trimesters), and through the policies put in place by the previous governments on the side, in particular, of the control of the expenditure, but also on the side of the increase of the revenues, we have a situation in which our budget, if nothing is done, determines a level of indebtedness of 2.2%. It is a result that has few precedents, and also few imitators in the European context, and that tells us that the accumulation of very significant primary surpluses that have occurred over time allows the country to have achieved, on the side of financial stability, important results. They are not obtained by this Government, but I want to value them anyway, because they are results of the country system. Once said this, as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti pointed out earlier, we have made as a Government (in this case, this Government) a choice of continuity break because, instead of continuing, as well as a blind interpretation of the European rules suggested, on the side of the further consolidation operation (of course to the further detriment of the growth prospects) we decided to reverse the route, to respect the rule of 3%, but bringing the level of nominal net debt to 2.9 percent: translated into a language that is understood, to finance in deficit, 0.7% of the product (about 11.5 billion euros), growth support policies. Then we can discuss the ability of those individual choices to use the 11.5 billion to really support growth or not, but this was the choice we made, proposed with the Update Note and authorized by the parliamentary resolution that that Update Note has transposed. For the same reasons, which motivated the proposal to make budgetary policy assume an intonation, which I would define responsibly expansive (respondably, because under 3%, but expansive because it widens the level of tendential debt expected), the document of Document of economy and finance updated, modified - here is the second choice contained in the parliamentary resolution approved of the Note of update - the planned path of convergence towards structural balance, proposing an improvement (not a worsening, therefore not a reversal of trend) of 0.1 percent of the product against the 0.5% fixed by the Pact of stability and growth, as defined at the end of 2013 for 2014 in our country and in the relationship between our country and the rest of the European Union. I want to remember the reasons for that choice: the first, the continuing recession in which the country is, as I said before, without any continuity solutions, from 2007 to 2008. An aggravated recession - on the subject I want to draw attention to because there is a serious underestimation of this risk - from the lack of a deflation that is a mortal enemy of growth and that proposes a dramatic risk. You see, Italy has learned, over the decades behind us, to measure and master - I must say quite effectively - the risk of excessive inflation, but on the contrary, Italy and all the advanced industrial countries of the world have shown enormous difficulties, in the course of the economic history of the last centuries, to deal with the problem of deflation. The problem of deflation has no well-defined and tried solutions, unlike excessive inflation. The second reason for our choice, the one contained in the document of economy and finance, as approved, through the Update Note, by the parliamentary resolution, was the need to implement with adequate and additional budgetary resources, structural reforms, from that for the abolition from the tax base of the IRAP of labour costs (reform that I consider to be of a structural type exactly as was the reform for the introduction of the IRAP as defined at the end of the nineties, containing - for the reasons we know and on which I do not now dwell - the tax base of the IRAP itself, the integral component, the component cost of labour) until the reform for the introduction of new rules of the employment relationship and the system of protections of workers itself in the face of the risk of unemployment. I am referring to the need - this is the second reason - to finance, even with additional budgetary resources, exactly those structural reforms that the European Union has been urging the country to adopt for years, without us being able, for reasons that are partly political, partly economic and partly related to the country's budgetary situation, to adopt. Now, beyond this fact, as we have clearly written in the update note, the Italian Government however, even if these structural reforms were not recommended to us by Europe and, to be honest, they have been for years, however, it would have chosen to implement them with new additional resources because it considers them absolutely indispensable to prevent the country from screwing into a spiral that is made of recession with deflation, fiscal restriction and in-depth recession. This is the spiral in which we are in danger of screwing ourselves dramatically if we do not intervene with structural reforms that, adequately financed by the budget, reverse the negative trend that has been triggered. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important both at the specific level of budgetary policy for the European dimension and at the more general political level that the European Commission - and this is the true fact that we should point out - has also called for a quantitative correction in relation to the deviation proposed by us on the path to the Stability and Growth Pact, but politically it has not challenged the direction and meaning of the Italian proposal, as put forward by the Government and as endorsed, through Parliament's resolution, by Parliament. Strong of this recognition, which is explicit in the Commission's position in the famous letter that was addressed to us then the Government reacted with the proposals that we are discussing, the Government today proposes to Parliament to decide, with this variation of the economic and financial document to be approved by means of a resolution, for the adoption of what the Government considers a good compromise, as was said by Senator Guerrieri Paoletti just now. Therefore, it proposes that the level of net debt should rise from 2.9 to 2.6% (always well above what would have been required by the Stability and Growth Pact, as it is) and that progress towards convergence on structural balance should go from 0.1% to a little above 0.3%. This is in quantitative terms what I call and define the honourable compromise that the Government proposes to Parliament to consolidate with its vote on the motion for a resolution approving the proposal for a change. Of course, we could have proposed that we insist on quantitative targets and, basically, not to ignore them, but to respond to the Commission's comments by saying that we want to settle on 0.1% in terms of improvement towards structural balance and 2.9% in terms of programmatic debt. The motions for resolutions No 2 of the Lega Nord and No 3 of the SEL Group propose to us this approach - with reasons, I want to say it for intellectual honesty, among them also very different - and that is why the Government cannot approve them. Madam President, the Government does not agree with those motions for resolutions for basically this reason. There are also other reasons, but our position is basically negative because we believe that it would have been a mistake, in view of the response we have received from the European Commission, to insist on the quantitative data we have proposed with the previous Update Note. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, we the country system (I hope I can say), we the government and (I think I can say) we the majority who support it do not propose to get a discount in the European Union compared to our obligations defined by the Stability and Growth Pact, as renewed over the years: we propose to achieve a turning point in economic and fiscal policy towards the European dimension. Precisely because we are proposing this result, and therefore not simply to get a discount for us, it would be a mistake to neglect the political importance of the conclusion that the comparison with Europe has brought us with regard to the budget policy proposal that we have made. When the Commission tells us that the deviation we propose is very strong, but it does not propose that we correct it in full quantitative terms, it tells us that it is willing to consider a fiscal economic policy orientation that is partially different from that set out in the Stability and Growth Pact as an acceptable proposal. It would be a suicide, in my opinion and in our opinion, for the country to stiffen on the demand for quantitative dimensions of deviations, as originally defined, ignoring the political result obtained at this stage from the confrontation that has developed at this time, namely the two good reasons that we have put at the basis of our quantitative proposal. Firstly, we have pointed out that we are still in recession (therefore, attention to a restrictive policy that will deepen it); secondly, we have stated the need to make structural reforms (and to do so we need the necessary budgetary resources to implement them). Our two good reasons have been at least partly based on the orientation of the European Commission. If we were to get tense now we would get a paradoxical result, namely that of returning to a conflict in a context in which the risk of seeing ourselves again, exactly as they were, the economic and fiscal policy guidelines of the European Union would be very high. All the more so since this proposal is largely compatible with the maintenance, one by one (in the following I will go and list them quickly), of the fundamental choices that the law of stability proposes to the country and to the Parliament. We will then see how this will develop in the debate that will take place in the coming months. This change, however, essentially aimed at removing from the stability bill the fund from permanent revenue acquired through the fight against tax evasion for more than EUR 3 billion, leaves essentially unchanged in the stability law the abolition from the IRAP tax base of labour costs (of which I have already mentioned). It then leaves unchanged over the years the stable reduction of 80 euros per month of the tax levy on ten million workers, as leaves unchanged the total taxization of the contributions for all (without distinction of sector, characteristics, etc.) the newly hired workers with fixed-term contract to increasing safeguards, as defined by the law delegation. Moreover, it does not prevent the re-determination of the financial borders of the Internal Stability Pact for Municipalities, in order to allow the Municipalities themselves to develop more incisive investment policies than they could develop because of the characteristics of the Internal Stability Pact as well as known. Finally, the choice we are proposing does not call into question the resources to be made available for structural reforms, in particular those of the school and those concerning the system of social shock absorbers and active labour policies (the delegation law). For this reason, not seeing, on the one hand, the objective of taking choices to support growth, especially on the side of reducing the tax burden on labour and on the company particularly penalising for our competitive ability compared to that of a country like Germany, and, on the other hand, not seeing our choice to finance with additional resources the structural reforms necessary to increase the competitiveness of the country, we gladly propose - considering it a good compromise - to adopt a new resolution authorising the Government to modify, through amendments, the law of stability and therefore the budgetary law in the sense that we have agreed with the European Commission. Certainly the effort regarding the financial stabilisation of the country has not ended, but we are in a context in which the results obtained even in the distant past and those further consolidated in the course of a more recent past allow us finally to adopt a budgetary policy that maintains, despite today's correction, an expansive intonation that no one, not even the fiercest of critics from the left side, could deny because it is present in an indisputable way in the numbers represented. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lanzillotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u26	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business and with regard to Rules 96 and 106 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Even on the basis of what the representative of the Government has indicated, I do not think that we should pass to the review of the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document. As this is an unagreed response with the European Commission, because - as the representative of the European Commission Katainen has clearly pointed out these days - there will still be a further examination of the situation of the Italian accounts in November and because we are waiting for the ISTAT data on GDP to be published in the first days of November, it is absolutely easy to imagine that this will have to happen immediately another Update Note; we must also consider that there can be more later. In addition, we are waiting for the Government to define its intentions by means of amendments announced to this same Note. All the more reason, therefore, I believe that clarity with regard to Parliament must be made in a single final resolution, apart from the fact that an absolute majority of the Members of this House may not be considered necessary to vote on it. This is certainly a matter of form, but also of substance, because I believe that this House, as well as the 5th standing Commission, are not merely assemblies in the account of accountants for the figures, but should enter into the substance and that, therefore, any variation should be submitted to the absolute majority of this House for its inclusion in the report. I repeat: nothing means that today's proposal leads to a debt balance lower than the one already approved. The theory that has already been adopted contains the least that is proposed today cannot be at all adapted to the planning tasks, and therefore of substance, of the maneuver that Parliament must adopt through the resolution. But, having said that (the merit of this proposal will then be discussed in the explanations of vote), I think it is absolutely appropriate not to vote on this, which we consider to be a partial change in the final policy as it will come out after the update of GDP data, and especially after the further intervention already announced by the European Commission. The representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando, also told us that this is not the agreed solution, but it is a solution proposed by the Italian Government which partially takes up the observations made by the European Commission, so we must expect a further reply. At this point I have to ask what communication mechanisms exist between the Minister for Economic Affairs, the President of the Council and Commissioner Katainen of the European Commission. I am also saying this because, until a few days ago, we had heard here from the President-in-Office of the Council say that not to exceed 3% was an autonomous choice of Italy, while other countries had chosen otherwise. So if Italy wanted to, it could have gone over 3 percent. I don't think so. Once again we have listened to things that do not correspond to the truth. I therefore repeat, in accordance with Rules 96 and 106 of the Rules of Procedure, the request that this motion for a resolution should not be discussed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u27	Senator D'Alì, I'll give your remarks to the President. In the meantime, since this is not a draft law and we are not yet in the process of voting, we are continuing our work. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 1, the 20-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now running. We shall now proceed to the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u29	We're not voting yet, Senator Malan. I said we instruct Senator D'Alì's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u30	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I know, but the Rules of Procedure are very clear and say that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling must be dealt with and resolved first. You must say that you reject this request or we will vote for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I don't. It's not a bill, that's what you know. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You cannot say that the matter resolves it later, as has happened in the past. The Rules of Procedure say that these questions must be examined immediately. Therefore, if you say it is rejected, I do not understand how this is reconciled with Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. In any case, the Presidency decides, but it cannot postpone it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u31	Senator Malan, meanwhile, you know that this is not a bill. If you don't mind, let's consider your proposal before we move on to the vote. I'll say it and confirm it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u34	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, I immediately announce that the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and, therefore, of the proposal to amend and update the DEF contained in the Report submitted by the Government. I would also like to thank Deputy Minister Morando for the breadth of the reflections he has offered us, because I believe that this is a moment of great complexity and delicacy for economic policy, for relations with the European Union and for the prospects of our country, which therefore deserve a deepening and awareness of Parliament, without which we would not have the unity of intent that this stage requires. I would also like, if I may, to comment on what Mr D'Ali said. In this case, I believe that this is, as we have been told, an assessment by the Government which, with regard to the objections put forward by the European Commission, has established a strategy, on the one hand, of budgetary policy and, on the other hand, of economic and political policy in general with regard to the Commission. (at 10:53 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Lanzillotta). We know, however, that we have two equally important constraints but with different potential axes: on the one hand we have the constraint of the European Treaties and therefore the obligation to stay within the parameters envisaged (we will see then why we have behaved in a certain way and other countries, such as France, otherwise), but on the other hand - I would be grateful to Senator D'Alì if he listened to me, even if he is busy and distracted by President Fedeli - there are the financial markets that are far more arrogant and less willing to negotiate than the European Commission is. Our country has now reached 135% of the debt on GDP; we have a recession aggravated by deflation and therefore we need to maintain solid credibility vis-à-vis the financial markets that must finance our debt with issues that each year amount to a few hundred billion euros. That is why we must maintain a line which calls into question the vision of economic policy which has followed the German-led European Commission so far and which has led us to the difficult situation in which we are, even if not alone, because, as Deputy Minister Morando said, this situation has also been determined by our immobility in pursuing the reforms for competitiveness and to give dynamism to our economy; but we must also look very carefully at the financial markets. That is why an increase in debt and debt outside the European parameters and a confrontation between Italy and the Commission, at this stage of the development of our internal economy, I think would not have helped the stability of our public finances and would have exposed us to the risk of falling back into a very critical and dramatic phase, such as that of 2011. We need to be aware of all this even when there is just criticism in principle: for example, in my opinion, sufficient resources have not been invested in the field of basic research, which is the prerequisite for an effective innovation of the industry; yes, start-ups and small enterprises are financed, but they do applied research and therefore do not produce that humus on which in other contexts, such as the United States or Germany, actual innovation is then produced and therefore the ability to produce further innovation. We must, however, realize that we must do the best we can by following a very narrow path. We must be aware of this because we all want to make more investment in infrastructure and research, we all want less taxes and higher wages: it would be the country of bengodes but we cannot afford it. Beyond the responsibilities of the past and how we have come to this situation, today this is the reality, so the action of the Government moves on two tracks that try not to converge, not to clash and not to hijack the train Italy: on the one hand there is the fiscal policy that leads to the maximum limit of its expansionary capacity and support for the recovery of the economy and on the other there is the line of reforms that must accompany the fiscal policy. One without the other doesn't take us anywhere. That is why I believe that when we discuss the reforms we must ask ourselves and be aware of the impact of these reforms in terms of dialogue with markets that look at the ability of our system to achieve that growth that we promise for the next three years and that is important for the level of economic and social life of our country but it is equally important to signal the sustainability of our debt. I would just like to make one comment on this. Last Sunday we had the results of the stress tests on the banking system. There have been many criticisms of the criteria and assumptions on which a country banking system has been assessed compared to another system, for example that of Germany, which has within it great suffering and critical issues throughout the system of the Landesbank. On this I would like to recall some of the Premier's positions which, I believe, beyond the folklore with which they are proposed, are, however, many right. We have been among the biggest supporters of the banking union, because it is a great step forward for European economic integration, but we must also demand that we take our views into account all the figures, the highly technical personalities that we support and bring to the European institutions, the large institutions that determine that brake and the network of rules that, then, fall very concretely on our choices of economic policy, on our constraints and on the relationship with the markets. In this case, for example, very, very controversial assumptions have been assumed. I am referring to the level of risk of our public bonds linked to the prospects of our economy which, moreover, would be aggravated by the recessionary policies imposed by the Commission. Then, dear Vice Minister, dear President of the Council, since all the other countries designate personalities who have high competence and professionalism, but then do the interests of their country, we must demand this attitude from the Italian representatives in the institutions, which, of course, must, like the directors of companies, do the interest of the institution in which they are incorporated, but must first have the ability to represent our point of view. And our point of view must be upheld, not only at the final stage of political negotiations with the Commission and other European governments, but also in the technical fora which are of enormous importance at European level. Sometimes, as the Prime Minister recently said (I very much agree with this), the technocrats whom we refer to are more concerned with the judgment of the technocracy in which they are included than with that of their country. This, while fully respecting the autonomy of institutions and persons who play a role, is a cultural fact that needs to be changed. In my opinion, all the stress tests are proof of this. [[Call the president back.]] Have I finished my time yet? I was passionate about this reasoning. I conclude by stressing that the line that the Government is taking is revolutionary in relation to the compliance that we have so far followed towards Europe. It is followed by France which, not by chance, has a more aggressive line because it can afford it because it does not have such a high and seemingly unsustainable debt as ours. I believe that this is a step and that we must accompany it with budgetary policy and reforms, and I also believe that this is the right direction. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u37	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, as I will speak for the Group in the explanation of vote, I would point out that the President has put it before the 20-minute deadline for tabling amendments to the text of the report. It is clear that my speech can only be approximate, even foreshadowing, with regard to the possible, even profound, amendments which the amendments which may have been adopted by this House will be able to make to the text. I find it absolutely unreasonable - and I say this before speaking - to have to make the explanation of vote in this way, unless we consider it to be a rite that must be consumed and not a matter of substance, on which Parliament intervenes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] I would ask you, since you have taken office on the President's behalf, to be able to offer your assessment of this address to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u38	All right. In the meantime, let us continue with the explanations of vote. [[Illarity from the LN-Aut Group. Comments]] Excuse me, the deadline that was given expires at 11:11 a.m. in six minutes. I can, in the course of the work, allow me to evaluate the amendments that will be tabled by 11.11 a.m. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, I also accept that you are not unreasonable about the proposal that I have offered to your attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, absolutely, your proposal is reasonable.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u39	It is in his power to be able to inscribe any intervention. However, I would ask you, in your reasons, to be reasonable, if you can. In fact, my intelligence escapes the causal link between what you're proposing and what I asked for. I only asked to be able to intervene fully and seriously.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u40	And I will allow you to speak after 11:11 a.m., by way of derogation from your order, so you will have the opportunity to speak after you have known the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u41	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Those amendments will be voted on, Mr President. Maybe it will not be the case for an amendment of mine, which will certainly not succeed in this House, but should it happen that a member of the majority, re melius per pensa, wants to propose a change, can the Presidency inhibit this aspect? What we are discussing can be changed from here to when you propose the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u42	Will there be a chance of a debate on the amendments or not? I think so. In any case, I will put your speech in the meantime after the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, so at least you will know the amendments and you will be able to intervene. Then, as you know, there may be a debate and an explanation of vote on the amendments. I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u45	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating and then voting on is, as we know, an update of the DEF approved in this House on 14 October. The rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, and, during the debate, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, well remembered what happened. Compared to the DEF, the European Commission argued that there was a significant deviation from the path of fiscal adjustment and the transitional rules on debt. On 14 October, the Italian Parliament approved the target of 2.9 per cent of GDP for the planned net debt of the public administration and an improvement of 0.1 per cent between 2014 and 2015 of the balanced structural balance. Today the Government invites us to review, improve, the structural net debt of 2015 around 0.3 percentage points of GDP and proposes a nominal net debt of 2.6%. Minister Padoan has already pointed out that this is a considerable effort, following three years of recession. We must now give a judgment and a vote on this correction, on this not overwhelming deviation from the forecasts, because we have already talked about the DEF in its entirety sixteen days ago and about the law of stability we will be talking about for a long time in the coming weeks. The thrust of the work of these two weeks that separate us from 14 October is that the European Commission would have liked more austere budgetary objectives than those envisaged by the Italian Government. The Italian Government itself held a constructive dialogue, respected European rules and reduced demands. Without prejudice to the fact that the game is not yet closed, that at the end of November the new Commission will carry out more in-depth analysis and that therefore our situation remains delicate, but there is something deeper that we must derive from this procedure, from this affair and from this confrontation between the European institutions and the Italian Government. I have always thought and continue to think that the first moral rule is to respect the rules, if anything, to fight them democratically to change them, but to respect the rules. In this respect, it was right for the Renzi Government to remain in the rules, to confront itself by keeping the point, to build alliances and a reformist credibility that are important in order to obtain more bearable and not overwhelming measures in the next law of stability. In Europe we have given ourselves - and I come to the point - first a single market, then a single currency; we have set ourselves up institutions that cross the jealous sovereignty of the national states. In Europe we have put in the same political and technocracy pot, treaties and regulations, which are different things. The plethora of bodies, too many European overlaps, a series of unsolved nodes and important choices that have not been made, the step of snails in integration make this European Union incomprehensible and distant from the peoples of the states belonging to the European Union itself. A soulless Europe is being built, led by the strongest, indeed by the strongest, in the absence of politics, which uses a bureaucratic and technocratic apparatus that is very expensive and very sensitive to the dominant powers, bold towards diversity and with a culture that is homologating both to society and to the market, which is seen at a single level. This technocracy operates in the absence of a real political government. Then I believe that our President of the Republic is right when, precisely following this incident, he told us that it would be serious to see 0.1%, the rules, the treaties or the fiscal compact, because the European Union - says Napolitano - is much more. Many of the European Union's high motivations have remained in the shadows. This affair has spread among the "zero" comma, between confidential letters and between the stitches of an outgoing president. A Community executive who is fierce and who, in the face of a persistent serious economic crisis, behaves with the same logic as one moves in trade union negotiations cannot represent the Europe we have dreamed of and for which we have spent. The Europe in which we believed was yesterday the Europe that united to avoid the tragedies of the two World Wars and it was also Europe that defended the values of freedom and democracy against totalitarianism, against the construction of walls; Today it can only be Europe that unites to stand and win global competition, to be a driving force in innovation as well as in the emancipation of mankind. Well, the gap between this ambition and the current reality of the European Union is too great and becomes unbearable. Yesterday, Professor Guarino, on the "Corriere della Sera" reminded us that the balance of the budget is imposed on us by a regulation and not by a treaty; indeed also by the Constitution. I think, however, that we need to go further than the legal aspects. The European Union either is politically driven or becomes a non-exit maze. I think, for example, that, as the candidates for presidents of the United States hunt for votes even in the smallest of American states, just as anyone who should have the ambition, one day, to lead the United States of Europe should reap the needs, problems and difficulties of the peoples of this continent, Greece, Portugal and Italy. Today in Barroso, Juncker, Katainen and Merkel itself, how much do the votes of Italians who are not voters of the European Union's volitional bodies matter? And how much does this affect those 'zero comma', those rules and regulations that have been imposed in the European Union? So, President Renzi was right to fight in the rules, but we have to change these rules. We must try to change not so much the rules from the bottom up, but we must change the status of this Europe from the bottom up. With the result obtained, the structure of the law of stability remains unchanged: this was well remembered by Deputy Minister Morando listing also the objectives of the future law of stability. These objectives respond to the need to support as much as possible the aggregate demand and competitiveness of our business system. That is what we need today. It is for this reason that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European For Italy, we shall vote on motion for a resolution No 1 of the majority, which we hope will be put to the vote. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u48	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Amendments have been tabled. Before the explanations of vote can we examine them, explain them and then vote on them? If the text of the motion for a resolution changes, it is right that we should know it in order to evaluate the final vote. Isn't that right? [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u49	Senator Airola, this has always been the practice so far. If the text changes, the Presidency will assess. I do not yet know the amendments. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] In the meantime, let us continue with the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u50	I understand that this House now has rites that seem empty of meaning. Let's get on with it tiredly according to a slightly empty protocol. In my view, however, in order to do genuine democratic work, we should first open this stage and then proceed to explanations of vote and the final vote. Correct me if I'm wrong. Maybe I'm a neophyte and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u51	I understand these demands, but this examination can be supplemented later by the debate on the amendments. I just told Senator Mauro that he posed the same problem. I'll raise the proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have also added that, when explanations of vote are exhausted, we will have time to examine the amendments, to explain the amendments, to make explanations of vote also on the amendments and then to move on to the final vote. As the timing of the amendments has necessarily been subsequent to the knowledge of the motions for resolutions, we shall proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u52	Mr President, we do not know what to vote for. Could we not wait for you to be informed about the amendments, that we receive this information and then proceed to the analysis, in a logical, simple and linear process? There are also scientists in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u53	In fact, it is also possible to innovate practices.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u54	AIROLA (M5S). We could set a useful precedent for the future. Since we are constantly quoting precedents, this could become an important precedent.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u55	Then, as the deadline for tabling amendments has expired and the Bureau of the Presidency tells me that the amendments are being distributed, I suspend the sitting for ten minutes, and then we will resume our work. (The sitting was suspended at 11.19 a.m. and resumed at 11.48 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the amendments, as requested, I will reply to Senator D'Alì. The request made by Senator D'Alì is not considered admissible within the time limits laid down, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. as a non-transitional agenda for the examination of articles. Moreover, even if it is intended to qualify the request as an incidental issue, although late, the proposal concerns the possibility that the Government may submit further reports or documents to Parliament, as provided for in the current legislation. If this happens, it will be the Presidency's responsibility to proceed with the assignment and submit to the Conference of Leaders the timetable for the examination of the possible new Document. On the other hand, Senator D'Alì himself has just tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution adopted by Deputy Minister Morando, which is intended precisely to invite the Government to present to Parliament in good time the further Notes of variation and updating that will be necessary. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u56	Mr President, as you have already pointed out, Amendment 1.1, which I have tabled, is absolutely clear in the system. The reason for this amendment is that, as I said before, the proposal not to move to the discussion of the motion for a resolution, the evidence of what has happened and the even more obvious possibility of what can still happen: it has happened, that is, that the President of the Council has come to tell us that it was an autonomous choice of this Government to keep below the 3% limit on debt, and also justifying the attitude of France, which has gone much further, told us that it was his choice and that therefore it was certainly in the possible faculties of Italy also to exceed this 3%. In fact, the President was denied by Commissioner Katainen, who sent a note saying that Italy had to revise its level of indebtedness. The revision of this level, among other things, has not been agreed with the European Commission but, once again, is a decision taken independently by the Italian Government. This is certainly right, but it would also be absolutely right for the Italian Government, once it has taken its decisions, to maintain them and, above all, to agree with them first with the European Commission in order to avoid this postal ballet between the Government and the European Union, which then leads the President of the Council to be resoundingly denied. Since the European Commissioner has made it clear to us that it is his own words that no request for further amendments and corrections can be excluded until the end of November, we are still under consideration. The next examination will also cover the structural structure of the overall budget of the Italian economy and in particular of the public debt, of which nothing is said either in the law of stability or in the DEF. Nothing is said, moreover, about the interventions that this Government intends to make in order to reduce the public debt or in any case to limit its impact on the country's economy. It is easy then to expect a very precise and precise note from the European Commission that will ask us to change the law of stability with reference also to this non-secondary data relating to the economic structure of our country. In early November, the new ISTAT data for the 2014 and 2015 GDP forecasts will be released. On the basis of these new data, as we work as a percentage of GDP, there will clearly have to be further updating notes. This ballet of the Update Notes - I had allowed myself to suggest not to proceed with the approval of this one, waiting for a definitive and no longer editable Note - how long will it last? And if it continues then it is clear that the government will have to come to Parliament on time for changes and for notes of variation. At this point we are not able to know how many will be and what will be the Notes of variation. I therefore believe that Parliament must demand immediate knowledge of it and must also demand, on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council, a somewhat more 'robust' attitude when it takes a decision and, above all, that this decision is taken without going to the newspapers every day with a constant swing of denials, criticism and subsequent changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u57	The remainder of the amendment is set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u58	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u59	The opinion on amendment 1.1 is opposed. We believe that it is important to proceed quickly to the vote in order to give more strength to the Government as well. On Amendment 1.2, the opinion is opposed, as this will be the subject of the draft stability law.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u60	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 1.1 and I would like to explain the reasons for it quickly, Senator D'Alì. The procedure we are following is exactly the one provided by the so-called preventive arm of the twopack. So it is not true that we are faced with the ballet of the resolutions and the Notes of variation: simply, we are following exactly the procedures provided by the preventive arm in Europe. As for the second - and more relevant to this purpose - argument, the Government does not intend to present any additional Note of variation. Therefore, it does not intend to accept the commitment to present something which it does not intend to present and which it will not present in a timely manner. With regard to amendment 1.2, the opinion is against it. I would like to invite Senator Calderoli to withdraw it, for the following reasons. The issue that Senator Calderoli very appropriately addresses with his amendment is dealt with with with a solution that is also technically very well defined, as Senator Calderoli knows, in the bill of stability. All the newspapers have talked about it: who to approve and who to disapprove, as always happens. Secondly, precisely because the issue is specifically addressed in the Stability Act, it is impossible not to note that the amendment to the majority motion for a resolution indicates, on the one hand, a different instrument (i.e. the establishment of a fund than that provided for in the Stability Act by the Government) and, on the other hand, a different definition of the audience of the beneficiaries of the measure. If the government said yes to this amendment, it would commit itself to doing something different from what it proposed in the stability bill. Then, it may be that, in the course of the discussion of the stability bill, amendments going in this direction could be accepted, but at the moment the government's orientation is aimed at confirming what it has defined in detail in this respect in the proposal for a stability law. That is why, as I said, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u63	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u64	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u67	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this amendment, partly because it can be interpreted in relation to the words: "More Notes of variation and updating that will become necessary." If these Notes do not become necessary, it is obvious that the Government will not have to present them. We take very seriously note of what Deputy Minister Morando has told us, namely that Notes of variation will not be presented, and of course we reserve the right to make remarks where the opposite happens. In the meantime, we will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u68	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to respond to the Government's call to withdraw Amendment 1.2. The reason for the rapporteur's opposition to the fact that it has to be dealt with in terms of the stability law is curious because, by reversing the order of factors, we are today making an update note with respect to the DEF, which is the prodromic side of the stability law: first we usually make the Note to the DEF and then we make the law of stability. Consequently, if there is anything that is not in line, it is this change and not, on the contrary, my amendment. However, in view of the Government's invitation to withdraw, I would ask the Government what opinion it would express if the same amendment were transformed into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u72	Mr President, if it were an agenda that simply invited the Government to address the issue of birth support during the Stability Act, I would, of course, welcome it, because that is exactly what the Stability Act contains. On the other hand, if the agenda were to propose the specific solution in identifying the audience indicated here, the opinion would also be against the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u73	Senator Calderoli, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u74	Mr President, I maintain the amendment and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u75	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us take back the final explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u78	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as is well known in the report to the DEF, it contains an indication of the policy objectives of public finance, so it intervenes to define the scope within which State spending must be developed, as it should be oriented, what actions are needed to improve the parameters of public finance debt and what is the scope within which the State's financial manoeuvre will move. This work is therefore not indifferent to the contents of the maneuver, which have been largely anticipated with the deposit of the proposal for a stability law and which are also known for the subsequent statements and - so to speak - quite punctual and articulate that the Government itself, through its representatives, has done to make these known to the public. One thing is related to the other, so the negative assessment that we make of the Update Note lies in the further recessive nature of the intervention. It does not seem to us that there are signs of courage, that the Government, that is, is doing who knows what a great revolution compared to the past. On the contrary, it seems to us that it is moving in a dangerous continuity with respect to the effects that we will end up recording at the end of the next exercise. In the meantime, a matter needs to be clarified. All the forecasts of these years, Mr President, have been false, wrong and, in our opinion, knowingly false, especially in terms of growth, especially in terms of debt reduction, especially in terms of the respect (not painful, not suffered) of the deficit-GDP ratio, which is the only thing that, indeed, in this proposal, is confirmed that it wants to defend and safeguard. The 3% deficit-GDP ratio is the only thing that seems to count for those who perform the role of responsibility in the government with respect to the country's economy. We must not respect the needs of our community, the right to work of our citizens, the fight against the systematic dismantling of the entire state production system and the cancellation of our industrial culture. This isn't safe. You save the deficit-GDP ratio. From the perspective, even in connection with what is contained in the law of stability, the measures that are put in place, rather than guaranteeing growth, risk giving more resources to the financing of capital, that is to say to the systematic rounding up of resources according to the speculation and enrichment of the few. Even the 18 billion euro cancellation of the promised IRAP (promises that will most likely not be maintained, even in the light of what is contained in this document) will very hardly end up in the investment in the productive activity: they will almost certainly constitute the portfolio that the speculators will always end up putting in circulation in the financial system. An aggressive financial system against the economy, against rights and against justice. We have an enemy, which the government pretends isn't there. We have a well-known enemy: our enemy is the economic and social crisis of our country, which extends to the entire European continent. We have an enemy, which is the progressive, seemingly unstoppable decline of this country and the Mediterranean countries. We have an enemy, which is the worsening of the differences, Mr President, between North and South, that this Government does not want to face. On the contrary, all measures, from 80 euros to IRAP intervention, will support the strongest economic and social parts of the country, will increase the differences and deepen the gap. While other countries have built their development on the recovery of the economic and social gap between weak areas and strong areas, we make discriminatory policies on time. This is another reality. We have an enemy, which is the bureaucracy of the technicians of the economy, which, if it exists in Europe, in Italy exists equally and is equally dangerous, because it is attached to the parameters, to the closed reasonings within a system of numbers, practically incomprehensible to the most, and does not solve a single problem of a social and economic nature. We have an enemy, which is the violence that is exercised against our workers, those who are attached to the productive activity of this country, who have contributed to its growth, who have defended democracy from the attack of terrorism, which are in the CGIL and free trade unions of this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Petrocelli]] We have an enemy, which is the violence exercised against this social representation through words and acts, even the acts of this Government. We have an enemy that creates division, because on division increases the defense of privilege, increases the guarantee of privilege. We all have an enemy, which is what our country now sees as one of the most affected in Europe in the most unacceptable and monstrous rankings, such as child poverty, unemployment, systematic financial recession. The same Update Note says: three years of recession. And it's three years of governments' mistakes of understanding. How do you still rule with Sacconi? [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] How do you do that? The solution will not be there, because they are the cause of this decline. [[Comments of the senators Mancuso and Bianconi]] Know that that is a road that does not lead to the exit from the crisis. Know that that is a road that you must change and that we are willing to change. We are willing to change it with all of you, because we know that our path is to work, to rights, to a more just and balanced society. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u79	Collegi, I inform you that at 14.45 the Minister of the Interior will make an information about the events that happened yesterday at the event of workers of the company AST in Terni. Each Group may intervene for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u80	We address our greeting to the young people of the Young Plan of Primiero, in the province of Trento, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u83	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the end we have shown, dear Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, that we were not out of the question when we were trying to deal with the overall problems of maneuvering. The change to the DEF Update Note is thus formulated - as our Deputy Minister has told us - because the findings received by the European Commission have prompted us to adapt it in the forms that have been proposed to us. What has the Commission taken into account in proposing changes? We still have the Vice Minister, who said that the Commission has taken into account everything that our country is doing, everything that it is highlighting from the point of view of structural reforms. And if you give us these indications, and not others, that depends on the fact that this analysis or evaluation has led us to this track. But what we wanted to emphasize, already in the debate, is that in the assessments that this Government offers to the European Commission there is absolutely, absurd, anti-historical and logical lack of therapy for the Mezzogiorno of Italy. There is no indication of growth, change, development. There is a complete lack of an overall vision and a framework to ensure that Italy as a whole can emerge from the pockets of the crisis. In all this we are confirmed by the fact that you also lack the minimum material references. You miss the perception of what is living more than 50% of the country's population and more than 50% of our country's territory. When you offer structural reforms that, perhaps to remove them more from people's perception, call jobs act in English, you talk about a job reform by addressing only one part of the country. Talk to a part of the country, but not to the whole of Italy. Do you know how much this measure of structural modification is worth in most of the Italian territory, from Rome down, in our Mezzogiorno of Italy? It's worth zero! In fact, you have not yet perceived that the -2.2% of GDP recorded in the Mezzogiorno of Italy means not only economic weakness, not only structural weakness of our production system, but also a vertical fall in confidence in the recovery. A government that is such, that is a national government, cannot fail to take into account the fact that the country system is based and must move on an overall idea. One cannot ignore what others observe of us. It has been authoritatively supported in this House, by a colleague who preceded me, that we cannot fail to look, on the one hand at the European Commission, but on the other, at the same time, at the markets. What would be these silly markets that do not look beyond the numbers, what is the real situation in our country? What are these silly markets or these silly financiers and international financial or investment operators that should not realize the state of alarm, even social, that there is in over 50% of the territory of our country? What markets are we talking about? Of these inattentive markets that would be happy with an Italy that, through a change from 0.3% to 0.1%, can today make the European Union square its accounts? It's not like that. Markets are the ones that look at the overall system, the country system. I would also like to remind you, Mr President, that in other parts of Europe and the world people are being talked about in favour of citizens and the right to happiness. Look how beautiful: other peoples of our world speak of the right to happiness. And here I come from that South, I say that people would at least like to have the right to serenity. He would like to have the right to survival in the land where she was born and where she wants to live. There is no right to happiness for much of our country; there is not even a right to serenity, but there is certainly, and this Government cannot but guarantee, the right to be governed in a fair and just manner. We have never seen any of this in the history of this Mezzogiorno. Ours is a unity of Italy that has been made with armies and conquests. After that, however, we tried to build a unity of Italy on the basis of economies, solidarity and belonging to a single national territory. Today, this government and these political lines are undermining this: what we have built in terms of national unity. Today we are determining the detachment of our nation on the basis of these economic data. Today this indifference and this inability to make everyone feel the protagonist of the revival is creating all this. It's yesterday - I say this to Deputy Minister Morando, who talks about great numbers and great prospects, sometimes wasting his time on the country's overall policies - the news that Delrio went to listen to the assembly of the Svimez the annual report and finally said: "Sud remain serene, in continuity of line with President Renzi. But how can you stay calm? If the European Union's ordinary funds have been virtually zeroed for the South, not to mention the additional funds, because, you see, these are not sterile documents: when you have to go and find the additional billions (which are 2, 3 or 18) to do this or that, they are taken somewhere, and they have taken half a billion euros from the co-financing funds for development projects in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Is this the South that needs to be calm? Is this the practical turning point in economic recovery policies? Is that what you do when you chat and proclaim something else? You see, Mr President, a little anger in me is also determined by the fact that I am trying to historicize what is happening, this lack of overall political weight of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. I'm trying to deal with it and figure out the reasons for it. Yet I realize that this is not a lack of political representation, of political visibility. The two major positions of the State come from that geographical area of the Country (the second is certainly you, Mr President); illustrious representations of this Government come from that geographical area, so today it is no longer a problem of presence in the institutions, in the places where it is decided, of personalities who have lived, who live and who know those problems and are committed to them. No. Today, I strongly believe and fear that there is a cultural collapse of what is the southern issue. There is a cultural collapse of overall sensitivity to what is a Country problem. Today, transversally, there is a lack of absolute awareness that can no longer be tolerated. Today we are appealing to the parliamentary representatives: it is not possible, it is a matter of dignity and belonging, it is necessary to play its role with intellectual honesty and with love. Today our people need this, because that train to which Senator Lanzillotta mentioned just now, that train that must arrive and that must have the double track of commission and market, that train, passing through the regions of the South, arrives at the station, but empty, full of corpses of that economy; full of corpses of hopes of the new generations. Emigration has begun again, Mr Grasso, of Palermo origin. Mr President, this is the land where you were born, whose desertification must be felt by each of us as a fact of truly pain, to which we must answer absolutely. We'll vote against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). We shall be voting against this motion for a resolution, which is accountant, minimalist, which is an insult itself to the cultural approach it has, and to the absolute lack of ideas and of a minimum development project for our Mezzogiorno. This text absolutely deserves our vote against. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u86	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the stability law for 2015 has yet to begin its parliamentary process and the government is already denying itself. I'd say we're starting out the worst way. Just as the President-in-Office of the Council at Leopolda last Sunday teat his mighty men about how he would well strip Europe, the Commission, Merkel and anyone who had disrespected Italy, his Minister for Economic Affairs was sitting at his desk writing his own letter of surrender to the Euroburocracy of austerity. The President-in-Office of the Council, being fully aware of what was happening in Via XX Settembre, shouting with nonchalance from the stage his and our rebellion at a European policy that is annihilating us economically and socially, has made yet another exercise of hypocrisy and falsehood. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It was a shameless mockery of its citizens and its faithful party, who were there in the audience. We are not so surprised that today we are also making fun of this Parliament. A month ago we approved the DEF Update Note, on the basis of which you prepared a written financial statement already with an admission of guilt in front of Brussels. By laying aside an unlikely 3.4 billion fund for non-specified fiscal pressure reduction interventions, the Government presented itself to the Commission with a margin of manoeuvre to be spent in the Roma-Brussels theatre. The script was broadly the following: slide tweeted by the Premier, announcing an expansive maneuver and a significant reduction in taxes, to which a European Commission, already delegitimized, answers, but eager to prove that it still has a role, asking for filings. The story ends with the happy until the Premier who, confidently, declares to a unified network: If the Commission wants another 2 billion, we'll give it to it in the morning. What's the matter? As often happens, the game has slipped out of hand. The Commission - which, I repeat, today is nothing more than a simulacrum because from 1 November it will be replaced by the new nominees, who, in turn, will make their own remarks, as Commissioner Katainen has already said - at the climax of a delirium of omnipotence asked not 3 billion, but even 4.5, a huge figure that could have been committed to expansionary measures, which our economy urgently needs: it is at the limits of survival. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This retreat without dignity is incomprehensible. We are in the institutional situation of now or never: Italy is the President-in-Office, that is, the director of the European Council. The President-in-Office of the Council can be very strong and, on the other hand, he also has a very weak European Commission, because it has already expired, is destined to be totally replaced, and, moreover, does not shine with any value or credibility, having not been able in all these years to propose and implement a single measure that has contributed to getting out of the economic crisis in which we are pouring. Our unblemished and fearless Premier, so arrogant and pompous in his homeland, did nothing towards European partners to reverse Europe's course towards the suicide of the euro and austerity. The semester will soon end with no results, except to provide a personal stage for the hedonism of the President-in-Office of the Council. The Italian Presidency will be remembered as the one that approved sanctions to Russia (which devastated the Italian economy), those that instead of closing the mission of attracting illegal immigrants to the Mediterranean and modifying European asylum policies managed to add a further European mission that, in turn, we will pay only, since the other countries consider it harmful and counterproductive, see England. Indeed, in the light of a review of the accounting criteria for calculating GDP, we will have to make a further annual contribution to the Community budget of 340 million from 1 December. Italy will have to give Europe 340 million more annually, while France will have a billion refunds and Germany almost 800 million euros. What's the matter? So much, in Italy we pay. Of this last payment, certainly not change, the government has not said anything, once again bowing its head in Brussels. Other countries, such as Great Britain, refuse to pay for this new bloodshed, preferring, given the economic situation, to use money for interventions in favour of citizens, rather than to keep the elephant machine and always hungry for Community bureaucracy. From what chapter of the Stability Act will this additional EUR 340 million be drawn, which we certainly do not have? I wonder if they will be removed from our citizens once again, perhaps further inflaming the non-self-sufficient fund (see ALS). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] What we are unfortunately afraid of is that they will not be taken away from the additional appropriations (almost 190 million per year) for immigrants arriving on Mare nostrum ships, since the law of stability makes these appropriations permanent. On the horizon there is no possibility that the operation Mare nostrum will end, not even in the face of the drift of the country and the social alarm that has now convinced also the local administrators of the Democratic Party to take and demand striking measures. Mr President, we cannot accept with today's vote this umpteenth submission to will outside the country that do not do the interest of our citizens and that, indeed, seem to want to drag our people to the bottom of the line. Announcement that we will then vote against the change in the DEF Update Note or, better, this DPF: probable financial document. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u89	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE agrees with the guidelines for the change to the DEF Update Note made necessary following the comments made by the European Commission. We believe that the government has found and managed to find the right balance between the correction of public finances and the stimulus to growth and that, while leading a country to the third year of recession, the Renzi Government has been able to assert its reasons before the European Union. Indeed - and we must not forget this - the initial adjustment required by Europe to Italy was 0.7% of GDP; But we have reached 0.3%. This is one of the first applications of the flexibility principle. We therefore believe that the President of the Council Renzi, but also Minister Padoan, have done an excellent job in Europe, achieving a result that was not obvious at the beginning of the negotiations. The Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE therefore welcomes the fact that the structure of the stability bill remains substantially unchanged. The content of the financial agreement reached on 15 October between the Government and the Autonomous Provinces will certainly have to be incorporated. We particularly appreciate the fact that the Renzi Government has managed to maintain in the stability bill also the approach aimed at reducing taxes, for example, for new recruitments and the substantial reduction of IRAP, meeting in this way the strong and justified demand of the world of work and businesses. I therefore support the motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Zanoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u92	Mr Azzollini (NCD). Mr President, on these occasions, of course, we tend to talk about everything, but perhaps it is more useful to look at the document that the Senate Assembly is called to vote on, partly because in this case it is a document of particular importance, not only at national level, but also at European level. We can certainly make all the political considerations we want, but - I insist - given the importance of this document I think it is useful to focus on it. For this reason, I shall confine myself to discussing and explaining the reasons why the New Centre Group will vote in favour of this document. The examination of the previous Update Note should be reviewed quickly. As I pointed out in the various interventions carried out, in that document the Government made a choice, questionable as much as you want, but clear and expressed: with the increase of the deficit from 2.2% to 2.9%, in the Update Note it chose to make an expansive maneuver. At the same time, in the Update Note, it pointed out that it intended to use the flexibility spaces allowed by the Treaties by proposing two objectives: the first, that of observing the Maastricht parameter, i.e. 3% of the deficit; the second, that of implementing structural reforms which, together with the current recession, constitute two of the reasons why a state can demand flexibility within the existing pacts. The government, therefore, makes a very precise and express choice: within those margins, however, it intends to make an expansive maneuver, because the unemployment rate is high and the growth rate has a negative sign. The European Union, at this point, focuses, not on these aspects, which it recognises, but on the aspect of the so-called medium-term objective: it considers that the postponement of the structural balance of the budget, and therefore of the medium-term objective (the European name of the structural balance of the budget), should be reconsidered; since our Update Note provided for only 0.1% improvement for 2015, instead of the 0.5% required of us, it considered that the deviation between what is required and what is expected by the Government in the Update Note was excessive. There is an important note that I believe is necessary. With regard to the structural budget, the question raised by the Italian Government on the revision of the parameters is correct. I apologize for the slight tone in which I usually perform these interventions. I am a farmer, and too complex parameters always lead me to pay some attention: it would be useful if those parameters were reconsidered so that they are more in line with the reality of the Italian economy, which is the third economy in the European Union. I do not insist on this point of which the economic pages are full, but I believe that this choice is right. In this context and at this stage, the government makes a choice: it maintains the 3% parameter, but it meets the European Union by bringing that 0.1%, which was our target for 2015, to 0.3% (plus some other fraction), i.e. it is closer to the 0.5% required by Europe. It is a choice I share, because Italy had the whole panel of possible choices: it could do nothing; it could totally adapt, giving a character no longer expansive to the maneuver; it could choose to even exceed the legal parameter of 3% of Maastricht. No: The government has chosen a reasonable parameter and has declared to maintain the legal constraint of 3%, and we hope that will happen. This is the will of the government, then we will see the results. The choice made with this variation is reasonable: the Government maintains the nominal deficit - GDP, which is a Maastricht constraint which results in automatic procedures, so we remain within that. Within it we want to make use of flexibility, as we have asked. We implement structural reforms, but, because of the recession, which is one of the parameters that allow us to draw up flexibility, we maintain an expansive maneuver, a little less expansive than what we did with the Update Note. And so we reduce by 4.5 billion, which is 0.3% nominal, which affects 0.2 and something about the structural balance. Choose, then, this road. It seems to me that, under the current conditions of the economy, this is a more than reasonable choice, because the others could have led to a situation of tension also on the European front, which I believe at this moment pernicious for the Italian economy. Maybe it's not the best choice. As I said that I am a farmer, I confirm it: many times the best is the enemy of good and, since the responsibility of the Government is to lead a maneuver into port, I believe that this was a choice - I repeat - more than reasonable. Of course - and I shall end, Mr President - the serious debate will be that on the substance of the stability law, and we will do so, so that what is said today only on the basis of macroeconomic or macro-financial parameters will become legislation, as far as possible, capable of achieving those parameters that we are setting ourselves. That's the effort. Personally, I am convinced - I have been observing this for a long time and I am telling the government, but I believe I can have a broad agreement on this - that, in the law of stability, we must also focus a great deal on measures that directly affect the real economy. I believe that competitiveness and productivity in Italy is the underlying problem we have and it will be better to discuss it carefully under the law of stability. But the upstream choice that is made - it is the task of this document - is more than reasonable, and not only reasonable, and you know that I am well aware of all the readings of these documents and the reasons given in the debate and interventions of the Government, which have been carefully examined. So, Mr President, the New Right Centre is voting with conviction on this report. Vote with conviction these parameters and believe that the choice that is proposed to the Chambers is reasonable. It is also useful to me, having brought the Italian economy closer to those required by Europe by this maneuver, that the effort made by this report should be accompanied by the negotiation within Europe on those parameters that are likely to penalise us. Then I think that's the right attitude. We do what the Treaties which we have freely signed require us to do, but the task of politics is also to review not the Treaties but at least some of the parameters that are at the heart of some of the choices of the political decision-maker that can change over time in relation to the changing economy. By doing our government effort well, we have more reliability and authority in dealing with the parameters within the European Union. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Zanoni and Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u95	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree very much with the President of the Commission of which I am a member, Mr Azzollini, because our assessment of the vote on this second update note is based on what is the DEF and then it is the law of stability. We cannot see this umpteenth variation as a separate document, free from all the other responsibilities that the Government, and President Azzollini himself, in fact, takes. In fact, in the Budget and Programming Committee, it would be appropriate to indicate immediately where those 30 billions will come from which, from here to the next three years, must come out in order to avoid that safeguard clause which will lead to an increase in VAT of up to 25.5%, but, even more dramatic, it will raise the rate of 10 to 13%, and that is what we are putting all our assessments on. We could also appear, if we look at you so schematically or "accountably," as President Azzollini looks at the documents, a little schizophrenic, because we vote no on the Note of variation in which we ask for the deviation from the parameters envisaged, but we vote no, as we will, also on the European diktat, because this is not a request from the Government but from Europe. Let us try to explain why: we voted no on the authorization of the deviation last 14 October, because this law of stability is one of the most restrictive of the last twenty years, especially for the South where I come from, even if, believe me, I do not make it a bell towering issue. We have seen the slides of Premier Renzi in which the decontribution for new recruits is dared. First of all, just as in the so-called jobs act it makes the work even more precarious, and also they make the aid even more precarious, because the decontribution will be valid only for the recruits by 2015. But the most serious thing, that was not in the slides, is that the law n. 407 of 1990 that allowed recruitment without the current ceiling of 8,000 euros, with a complete relief from all the contributory charges, to 100% for the South, including the INAIL contributions that instead, in the Government's pejorative law, remain at the expense of the employer. In our amending proposal, since the reduction for less-favoured areas was 100% while for the others it was 50%, we will ask for the full decontribution provided for by the above-mentioned law to be extended, which was structural (so, as it happens, Europe is asking us to really encourage work), also to the areas of the North, because the European rules, the inability and the irresponsibility of the last governments have meant that the whole of Italy has turned into a highly disadvantaged area. Then there is the abolition of the work component of the IRAP which, for 70%, is the prerogative of large enterprises, such as ThyssenKrupp, which make weapons and baggage after pressing the territory and when they leave give orders to manganell the workers, because this they have asked and obtained. In front of them will benefit our small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, those that, in reality, are not subject to sector studies, always have a profit and always pay or are being taxed. Even now we want to recover 3.8 billion from them, despite the smiles of Deputy Minister Morando to whom I would ask for certain answers. I would like to know whether it is true or not that, in fact, this IRAP relief will be more in favour of large companies than small ones, which - on the other hand - will be removed from the 10% reduction promise. A short while ago, in May, we promised to take away 10% and took back the word. You have also taken back the word of the zero comma and crumbs you had given to small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I would like to know how investors should come here and have legal certainty and fiscal certainty. There is no such thing. I think, then, in the end, the accounts won't even come back and we'll see if this part of the work is really lightened by the IRAP base. We then made the new minimum regime, the 15%, but we repealed the five. It is interesting because the government has specified: yes, but the contributions will no longer be paid on the fixed basis, but on the really income part. That is true, but the withdrawal will be much more expensive in general. Then - I say - it would have been better and more appropriate to leave that of 5%, so that - at least - the small entrepreneur guarantees his pension and pays contributions under the same pressure: instead, no, most of the money if the state takes them and we leave them without a pension tomorrow. Let's go further, thinking about the so-called baby bonus. The bonus is only for those born in 2015. They're all commercials, propaganda. How much do we want to recover then? If there is a budget bill for the option of pay-wrapping and there will be 2.2 billion more, will it mean or not that you will tax more the liquidation, the treatment of the workers' report end? Yes or no? Are we telling the truth, yes or no? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we want to put all the bill of stability in the slides, yes or no? That's the point. This is a truly recessive manoeuvre, and that is why we will still say no, because we would have wanted an accomplice government with Parliament and with the citizens, against the bureaucrats of Europe, who had finally seized the opportunity of the letter that came from Europe. To do what? To say, our accounts are just; they are your wrong ones. It can be seen, however, that, since the Government is not serious, the accounts have not even been made by the Executive: some other bureaucrats will have made them and the members of the Government are unaware of everything. Otherwise, in fact, we would have clear, concrete, serious and authoritative answers. However, since they do not know, they adapt, stand up and respond to that Europe they promised to change. By the way, we are now going to end our European semester and the data tell us that, however, the credit crunch is still there. When Draghi goes to visit Renzi (who is so close to the bankers), why then do not ask for sanctions to those banks that do not give credit, despite the high flow of money that comes to them and that have as their only penalty the duty to return, after two years, how much they received practically for free? Why does our little entrepreneur, our father of the family, who does not pay a stamp, have to be persecuted, while the banks that do not do their job do not? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because we're slaves! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then Renzi, come on, go against the strong powers! Spora! It also spreads more than 4.5 billion. Don't come back! Get ready! Take the opportunity and ask for a truly expansive maneuver for your country that helps families and businesses and that includes income of citizenship, eurobond, credit to small and micro enterprises immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This means going against the great powers and it means raising a country! Now the government is obeying, as it will, when the other new reports arrive. Because that's the way to go for Renzi. Then, in Italy, on the Italian media, he talks about something else. I call on the Government to look across Parliament and to think that it could really have support if it finally took our proposals into consideration; so it would go to Europe, strong for a Parliament and citizens who, instead of battling, would be in the arms of this Government, finally to rise up! For these reasons, I preannounce the vote against motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u98	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that if the next talks that the Italian economic debate patrol will have with the European Union give the same results as those that are at the basis of this Note of variation shortly, we will be able to use, for this patrol, the same expressions that Armando Diaz used in the bulletin of victory over the Austro-Hungarian army (of course with due observance of the historical stature differences of facts and characters compared to a hundred years ago). As my teacher, President Azzollini, said that in this debate we must intervene in the substance and detail of this document, leaving the maximum systems behind, I will immediately enter into the subject (always homage to my great master, President Azzollini). The detail is really uncomfortable, I must say, especially from the perspective of how we see the possibility of growth of our economy. What is being done to comply with the European Union's dictation of 4.5 billion? First of all, one of the things that may have been the novelty (perhaps, if there are any other positive ones) of this stability law is completely empty of content: the Tax Reduction Fund: 3.3 billion euros was its budget and 3.3 billion euros are being taken away from that fund. What's next? 500 million are being cut off from the co-financing of the European Structural Funds. Attention, many more are taken away, because the same word "co-financing" suggests that, by removing 500 million, some billions of European Union funds will have to be sacrificed, because we know that the co-financing rate is between 20% and 50%. So it is no less than a billion and certainly even more, by penalising those areas that most benefit from the co-financing, that is the areas of Southern Italy, which, according to all those who intervene constantly in this Chamber, must be the protagonist of the recovery and growth of this country. So I wonder what the Undersecretary Delrio is going to do continuously on a mission in the Southern regions of Italy; perhaps he is going to deal with political groups, as happened in Palermo last week, rather than giving actual indications of expenditure on European funds, since the Government itself takes the sap away from that possibility. Then we have an increase in reverse-charge mechanisms - I apologize, the English term is very hard on me, because I have always been a supporter of the pure use of the Italian language in these debates on our laws - in the fight against VAT evasion. This mechanism should provide an additional EUR 730 million. But already in the government's prediction, it is said that this forecast is still linked to the European Union's green light. There is therefore a further examination to be carried out. It is true that, as Eduardo said, the examinations never end; but, in this case, the examinations that never end produce Notes of variation to the DEF and above all - alas - produce, if ever the examination is not passed, an increase of the burdens deriving from the safeguard clauses. So I absolutely do not want to doubt the firm intention that Minister Morando has expressed on the Government's will not to present further Notes of variation; but, as already in this Note it is written that some measures are nevertheless conditioned to the approval of the European Union, I wonder how it will not do so, unless it goes directly to further amendments to the law of stability that evade the transition from Notes of variation. But let's go to this point, which is very delicate. If the European Union does not accept this mechanism on large-scale retailing, which it should make, in the so-called fight against evasion (but at this point I would rather say avoidance of the tax system) 730 million new taxes in those areas, a safeguard clause is triggered. I believe that the time has come - I am addressing the Government and President Azzollini and we will also do so with an official request - for the Budget Committee and the Government to examine all the safeguard clauses that apply to the Italian economy for the next three years. I believe that this complex will lead to a huge increase in the tax burden, in terms of VAT, excise duties and indirect taxes, which will penalise any anxiety and hope of growth in the Italian economy. It is right that Parliament should be made aware not only of the possible activation - already carried out - of the safeguard clauses, but above all of the load potential that they have now accumulated in the perspective of the Italian economy and taxation. If we add to these safeguard clauses other tax increases already decided, from those on savings (from 20 to 26 per cent), to those on pension funds, to the rate on the TFR, to the taxes on life policies, to the abolition of the concessions on stamp taxes, we can understand how, in reality, any item of expenditure that this new law of stability may possibly provide for will be fueled by an unequivocal and undisputed increase in the tax burden. Then I will have one last thought. Why, although the Italian Government has maintained itself under the 3% limit in the deficit-GDP ratio, does the European Union ask us to go far below this limit, reducing the voices of intervention through the law of stability of another 4.5 billion euros, taken, as I told you, in an absolutely irrational way and in any case not aimed at growth? Because there is a fundamental distrust of the capacities of our country and this Government to implement virtuous reform paths. We have experienced this directly in this Parliament: the major reforms we have launched do not meet the objective of reducing public expenditure. Europe then forces us into narrower areas than the Government had boldly imagined because there is no confidence that this government, with these mechanisms, can reduce public spending. We have not intervened on the structure of expenditure, on the governance of the territory of this country. We call for the imposition of standard costs, but we do not give local authorities and regions the opportunity to reorganise themselves according to basic economic criteria, such as, for example, the scale economy. We continue to demand that the same spending parameters apply on a base of 10 million users, such as Lombardy, and a base of 300,000, such as Molise. We have no idea what it takes to reorganize this country to reduce spending. Europe is aware of this and that is why it continues to press to reduce expenditure, in this case not public expenditure, but growth: the reduction of the tax burden is sacrificed and the use of EU funds is sacrificed. I wonder whether, on the other hand, it was not more appropriate to reduce, further reduce public expenditure, but by rational measures to restructure the components of expenditure. That is why the Forza Italia Group will certainly not vote for this Additional Note to the Economic and Financial Document. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u101	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will approve the variation report on the DEF Update Note for three reasons. First of all, because the corrections indicated by the Government - I must say very clearly and in a very precise way - while representing a considerable effort in an economic context characterized by recession and increasing risks of deflation, do not change the basic system of the law of stability, which remains characterized by a strong commitment to employment and support for income and investment (the aggregate demand), in order to give impetus to growth. I believe that the objective indicated by Minister Padoan must be strongly supported, which, even in our hearing, says that the fourth year of consecutive recession must be avoided: it is right. The second reason. The comparison with the European Commission has not been a surrender - as someone has said superficially here - but it has been extremely positive, because it has allowed us to arrive at a corrective solution that does not deny, indeed legitimate, even in Europe, the choice of our country, while respecting European rules, to support at the same time the need to change the approach of the economic policy of the Union, alongside the respect of political investment constraints, starting, in Europe, from the 300 billion that will have to be directly decided by the Union in the coming months, and from further interventions in the banking field, infrastructure and other similar investments in the near future. The third reason. This Note of variation, which I believe is also an act of seriousness towards Parliament in order to avoid approximate approaches, will now allow us to fully implement the parliamentary path of discussion and approval of the law of stability with a precise framework of reference to decide important interventions for new recruitments, to cut taxation on income from work and business, for school, to mitigate the negative impact of the Internal Stability Pact on municipalities, for a revision of expenditure, thus giving continuity to a season of social and economic reforms that, integrating with the institutional ones, will allow a positive change of our country, necessary and decisive for it to return to be considered at international level a credible country, where you can invest, solid in its perspectives. In this respect, it is important to recall the serious situation in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which many spoke of in the debate. I believe that in this context of credible reforms, better use of European funds and the ability to carry out an investment expenditure control, there is the response for the whole country and in particular for the Mezzogiorno. This is an important objective, important for all, which will serve families, citizens and businesses. But, as Minister Padoan said, it is a path that begins with recognition that 2015 will be the year in which you will finally have to get out of the recession, from a blocked stagnation, that takes away confidence and courage, in order instead to take a path of growth for the whole country. For these three reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u102	We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1, which was accepted by the Government. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller, Romano and Susta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, NCD and SCpI groups]] It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11,
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u105	LAI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak because I would like it to remain in the acts which are not acceptable to the statements made by Senator Carraro in his speech on behalf of Forza Italia during the debate on the revision of the programme objectives contained in the DEF. He made them in an improper context, in which he intended to demonstrate that the Regions use their resources inappropriately and in a disorderly manner. But he did it using the wrong examples to prove a completely misplaced theory. The Meridian affair is too serious to be dealt with as quickly as I have seen and treated by taking boldly the view of the property (although I know the links between it and my colleague). The reality is that there are 1,600 people (75% of the entire staff) for whom two days ago the mobility procedure was started, which will follow, in 75 days, the dismissal. There is a serious job that Region and Government are doing, to reduce redundancies, also recognizing the real difficulties of the company. Mr Carraro, however, tells us that the property, represented by the Aga Khan, which also refuses meetings with regional and national institutions, has put in 15 years EUR 500 million. It may be, but I would point out that public institutions, with infrastructure and contributions to work, have allocated similar amounts in recent years to support a private company that was considered strategic for transport to and from the island (not only the summer ones, which are on the market alone, or those for VIPs, which instead do themselves). When a company loses all this money and has benefited from seven years of an integration fund, when the industrial goals are not achieved, is it the responsibility of the workers or, at least in part - slightly, I could say - also of the property and management that was chosen to lead the company? We have asked that the Alitalia affair, a flagship company that became private in 2008 with the purchase by Air France and some Italian entrepreneurs and considered strategic for the country, and the Meridiana affair, the second private Italian company, strategic for the island's connections to the peninsula, be treated in the same way. Nothing more, but nothing less. The second theme is included in a broader and more complex context. I would point out that there are similar cases in the Mediterranean: just look at the regional company of the Balearic Islands. These are cases that indicate that, when the market is not sufficient to guarantee a right, it is the public that must guarantee it. As for health and school the market cannot guarantee the right to all, so for mobility the condition of island can harm a right that, if it applies to those who live in Rome and Milan, must also apply to one and a half million Sardinians, even when the market is not able to do so (unless someone thinks that Sardinia should be connected only in summer, when tourists want to visit it: as is done with a museum or with a zoo). As you can see, Mr President, the matter is much more serious and must be treated with respect. I realize, however, that, for those who arrive with a super yacht or land with a private plane in Olbia to go to Costa Smeralda only in August, these arguments are little known or understandable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-343.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 14.45 p.m., with the agenda already announced. The sitting was closed at 13.12 a.m.
