ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-01052 will be dealt with first, on the criteria adopted by AIFA in the authorisation of medicinal products. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u4	Mr President, Senators, the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) is working on criteria and parameters for the evaluation of medicinal products which originate, as is clear and well known, in the current legislation, from Law No 537 of 1993, which classified drugs, for the purposes of the supply system, in the A-belt, of greater therapeutic importance, B-belt, subsequently deleted by Article 85 of Law No 388 of 2000, and in the C-belt, of less therapeutic interest and not considered essential for the health of the citizen, i.e. whose effectiveness is not adequate compared to the cost. Legislative Decree No 219 of 2006 provided that, when granting a marketing authorisation (AIC) or subsequently, after re-evaluation by AIFA, including at the request of the applicant, medicinal products are classified into one or more categories, including medicinal products not subject to medical prescription, including over-the-counter or self-medication medicinal products (OTCs); and other medicinal products not subject to medical prescription (SOPs). In particular: (a) they may present a danger, directly or indirectly, even under normal conditions of use, if they are used without medical supervision; (b) they are often used, and to a very large extent, incorrectly and, consequently, at the risk of a direct or indirect danger to health; (c) contain substances or preparations of substances whose activity or adverse reactions require further investigation; (d) are intended to be administered parenterally, subject to the exceptions laid down by the Ministry of Health, on a proposal or after consulting the AIFA. Medicinal products which are not subject to prescription are those which do not, in a residual way, meet the criteria laid down in the legislation for the purpose of prescription. Article 32 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, converted into Law No 214 of 2011, has led to an extension of the scope for the sale of so-called C-belt drugs by parapharmacies, with the exception of well-defined categories of drugs. In this regard, on April 8, 2012, the AIFA released a documentation indicating, in detail, the "Criteri" for the identification of the list of medicinal products of belt C for which there remains the obligation of medical prescription and of which the sale is not allowed in the commercial establishments referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 32 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, converted with amendments, in Law No 214 of 2011... Numerous fascia medicines A can be purchased on the other hand only after medical prescription and placed at the charge of the National Health Service. As regards C-wrap medicinal products, to be sold on a repeatable recipe (RR), for which there is no obligation to dispense by means of pharmacies, AIFA identified the criteria that would allow the modification of their SOP-OTC supply regime to be possible, allowing its sale in commercial channels. The Ministry of Health issued the Decree of 18 April 2012 according to which medicinal products which are not allowed to be sold in commercial establishments are listed in Annex A to the measure. On the other hand, medicinal products included in Part Three of Annex A, for which there is still a medical prescription requirement, are provisionally placed, pending the evaluations of the Technical and Scientific Advisory Commission of AIFA (which was still being reconstituted at the time), while those sold without a medical prescription are also listed in Annex B. The Ministry of Health, subsequently, requested the AlFA to extend the criteria previously identified also to medicinal products not marketed, and the Agency complied with a procedure concluded on 15 May 2013; hence, the issuing of ministerial decree 21 February 2014 and the further decree of 8 May 2014 partially correcting its previous ministerial decree. As stated in the above measures, the medicinal products included in the list of medicinal products which can also be sold in the parapharmacies (Annex B to the Decree), are added to the medicinal products already classified by AIFA under the acronym SOP (without prescription) or as self-medication medicinal products which can be sold in commercial establishments. In particular, for the medicinal products referred to in the question, containing antibiotics, in any pharmaceutical form, the delivery regime under Recipe Repeatable (RR) shall be indicated. The justification is to avoid inappropriate use of antibiotics, even for local application, with all the negative consequences that could occur without medical intervention. Antibiotic preparations, in fact, even when used topically, require, however, to be sold on presentation of repeatable recipe, in order to ensure an optimal use to protect the patient. Therefore, in the last correction I mentioned, that of 8 May 2014, the medicinal product "Sterozinyl crema" containing the active substances gentamicin sulphate and betamethasone valentate, as well as the medicinal product "Ciclovinyl crema" based on gentamicin sulphate, the only medicines containing antibiotics, initially present in Annex B-SOP, (medicines without prescription), were instead re-inserted in Annex A-RR (drugs with repeatable recipe). It is considered that the two original medicinal products containing the active substances concerned (--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- As regards the medicinal product "Fresenius', a physiological solution (or, more specifically, "Sodio chloride Fresenius'), it is represented that this, precisely with the correction measure of 8 May 2014, has instead been appropriately re-inserted in Annex B-SOP (that of medicines without prescription), together with other similar preparations. I would like to point out that the issue raised in the question was dealt with by the Constitutional Court, which, in judgment No 216 of 9 July 2014, ruled that the pharmacies scheme falls fully into the area of "health protection"... while remaining only marginal, in this respect, both the professional nature and the undoubted commercial nature of the activity of the pharmacist. The Supreme judge has reiterated the consistency of the activity carried out by the Ministry of Health and the AIFA, pursuant to the legislation in force, for which the Ministry, after consulting the Agency, indicates with a periodically updateable list the drugs belonging to the C belt, for which the obligation of medical recipe remains and therefore is not allowed the sale in the parapharmacies. The Supreme Assembly has expressed itself in the sense that no censorship of unreasonableness can be raised to the prediction that it imposes the medical prescription for certain medicinal products and the consequent prohibition of sale in the parapharmacies, precisely on the basis of the differences that remain between the two exercises and that the Technical Agency of the Ministry, which is the AIFA, must periodically verify and also update: The pharmacies, in fact, precisely because they are subject to a series of obligations deriving from the health protection requirements of the citizens, necessarily offer a set of greater guarantees that make the permanence of the reserve assigned to them not illegitimate, as the Court always says.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u7	FUCKSIA (M5S). (Senator Fucksia remains seated.) Dear Undersecretary, thank you for your reply, which I am partially satisfied with, although I cannot fail to point out inaccuracies in the first place, I believe that this is due to a lack of ministry. I am referring, for example, to the phrase: "Many drugs in the range" A, however, can only be purchased after medical prescription, since we know that all the medicinal products of the range A have a prescription obligation (and are dispensed by the National Health Service). But above all, I would like to stress the criticalities of the system. A ministerial decree such as what you refer to, which needs a review in less than three months (from 21 February 2014 to 8 May 2014)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, but the Rules of Procedure require you to step up. FUCKSIA (M5S). [[He's standing up.]] I apologize. As I said, this tells you a lot about how things are done. Much wider should be the argument, instead, that leads us to reflect on the boundary between the acceptable clinical risk, which leads a drug to be also sold in a parapharmacy and the higher risk that implies, instead, for a drug, the obligation of repeatable recipe. We could discuss, for example, the side effects of paracetamol or acetylsalicylic acid, which are often sold in some formulations even without repeatable recipes, against some ointment antibiotics that may cause minor harm if administered. I would add that, when we switched from the liberalisation of Bersani to the further liberalisation of Monti contained in Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011 (so-called save Italy), converted by Law No 214 of 2011, we went from rain to hail because there has been more confusion among citizens since drugs are often unknown and there is a risk of abuse. We, as compared to other countries, such as the United States or Great Britain, have a much lower incidence of hepatitis from paracetamol, as we record less side effects from NSAIDs than the Nordic countries that have marketed and liberalised various drugs allowing them to be sold in various stores before us. I therefore call for controls to be carried out from this point of view. Then there is the question of prices. If, on the one hand, a drug is to be sold at a free price, otherwise there would be an imposition which European constraints would see as an obstacle to free movement, on the other hand there are variations in prices that are so high that there is a difference that is not congruent. I am thinking, for example, of the difference in the price of a drug based on paracetamol or aspirin, between our country and Spain: it costs about twenty times more from us, that is, about 6 euros compared to less than 50 cents in Spain. On the other hand, some of our drugs, even included in A-belt, are much cheaper than in other countries. This, however, sometimes leads to a shortage of these drugs (such as some antiparkinsonian or anticephalic drugs) because sales are more directed abroad where wholesale the revenue margin of pharmaceutical companies is higher. The regulation and effects of price moderation by the Ministry of Health and CIPE (as indicated in Law No. 449 of 1997, Article 36) are therefore of major importance, as well as an education in the correct use of medicines that avoid abuse and thus result in a lesser impact on the National Health Service of the negative consequences of drug use.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u8	Questions 3-00411, 3-01032 and 3-01086 on the cultivation of genetically modified maize follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u9	Madam President, these questions raise similar questions about MON810 transgenic maize seed in Friuli-Venezia Giulia and related issues. I therefore considered it appropriate to provide a joint answer to the various questions. I would like to point out, first of all, that the TAR del Lazio, with its decision of 12 April confirmed by the Council of State on 12 June, has sanctioned the legitimacy of the interministerial decree of 12 July 2013 prohibiting the cultivation in the national territory of varieties of MON810 maize from genetically modified seeds, until the adoption of measures referred to in Article 54 (3) of Regulation 178 of 2002. This decree is therefore in force and suspends the effectiveness of the authorisation issued at European level until 10 February 2015. After the entry into force of the interministerial decree 12 July 2013, which prohibited the cultivation of genetically modified organisms throughout the national territory, also the Regions, competent to regulate coexistence measures, have activated to avoid the risks of contamination between traditional crops and transgenic crops on their territories, through the adoption of rules of primary rank complete with relevant sanctions. The Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in particular, in the mores of the pronunciation of the European Commission on the bill approved by the Region in the matter of coexistence, adopted the regional law 28 March 2014, n. 5, which introduced a moratorium of one year, that is the prohibition of cultivation of ogm in the regional territory. This rule, in addition to providing an administrative penalty (up to a maximum of 50,000 euros) for the offenders, with relative reporting to the competent Authorities, authorizes the competent service in this matter (the Regional Forestry Corps) to order the removal of the conditions that determine the non-compliance. In this regard, I would like to point out that last July 2nd, on the website of the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, it was announced that, having received no observations from the European Union or the Member States on the draft regional law in due time, by virtue of the silence-agreement the regional law has become operational. This regional rule is the first example in Italy of a technical standard demonstrating the inapplicability of co-existence measures on the territory from which the refusal of cultivation arises and can represent a precedent for other regions concerned with the problem. In application of the aforementioned rules I would like to point out that, during the last sowing campaign, in July and August, the Regional Forestry Corps of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in collaboration with the Forest Corps of the State, by delegation of the competent judicial authority, has carried out the removal of all transgenic maize cultivated in the Region in violation of the prohibition imposed by the interministerial decree 12 July 2013 and by the regional law of Friuli-Venezia Giulia n. 5 of 2014. The plants in question were taken before the antese, in order to prevent any possible environmental contamination related to their flowering, and subsequently destroyed, as provided for in the regional law, in an incinerator located nearby. With regard to the sanctioning system, I would like to point out that Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, converted, with amendments, by Law No 116 of 11 August 2014, providing for the payment of a fine from 25,000 to 50,000 euros for anyone violating the prohibitions of cultivation introduced, even as a precautionary measure, pursuant to Articles 53 and 54 of the European Commission Regulation No 178 of 2002, has substantially completed the current regulatory framework. Among other things, the infringer is also obliged to remove, in his own care and expenditure, in accordance with the requirements of the competent supervisory body in the performance of the duties of judicial police, the cultivation of prohibited seeds and the implementation of the primary and compensatory repair measures in the terms and in the manner defined by the region competent by territory. This, at European level, in order to have legal rules that respond to the issue of the cultivation of GMOs in an effective, definitive and in line with the national policy pursued so far for the agri-food sector, the Government, during the Italian Presidency, is promoting the continuation of work on the proposal for a directive which, by amending Directive 18 of 2001 of the European Commission, will allow Member States to decide independently on the cultivation of GMOs in their national territory. This proposal, following the political agreement reached at the Environment Council on 12 June, is about to be submitted to the European Parliament at second reading. The Government, in any case, is working at European level to enable it to enter into force at the beginning of next year. Pending the final version of the text, I would point out that one of the most important aspects on which Member States have reached a common agreement is the possibility of intervening both during the preparatory phase for the granting of authorisation, in the case of unauthorized ogms, and on authorisations already issued, for ogms already placed on the market. The proposal also provides for restrictions on the geographical scope of cultivation to be established mainly on the basis of socio-economic reasons and agricultural and environmental policy, which will be added to the environmental and health safety aspects assessed during the current risk assessment procedure, as provided for in Directive No 18 of 2001 of the European Commission and Regulation No 1829 of 2003, also by the European Commission. Finally, as regards the health aspects, I would remind you that in our country, by the Ministry of Health, the official control plans on the presence of ogm in food, to guarantee the protection of human health, have been prepared for years, and for the entire national territory. From 2006 to today, the results of official controls carried out in Italy have confirmed that the presence of GMOs, authorized and not, in food in our country is decidedly limited (at trace level) and that, in the Italian market, basically, food products comply with the labelling requirements provided for by the current legislation, ensuring correct information also to the consumer. The available data confirm both the effectiveness of official controls carried out and the awareness of food business operators and their attention throughout the production chain.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, but I cannot but complain that my question was submitted on 8 October 2013: so it has been more than a year now and many of the issues addressed, especially those that originated from sowing in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, have fortunately found a positive solution. However, I would like to point out here that the purpose of the question, at least as far as we are concerned, was to push the Government to carry out a series of acts, which I must say have also arrived with some delay and difficulty. Fortunately, in Decree-Law No. 91 of 2014 the sanctions were finally included, which constituted the part that was totally missing in the interministerial decree and this was just one of the questions that our question asked forcefully, in order to give an accomplished meaning and in any case effectiveness to the interministerial decree banning the cultivation of ogm in our country. We know all the events that have characterized the attempts and sowings in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which then fortunately led to the moratorium, regional law and finally to the intervention of the Forestry Corps for the destruction of the crops, but it took a very long time to finally get to action. The Undersecretary recalled the decision of the TAR and, later, the decision of the Council of State: I constituted myself as a party to the TAR of Lazio, along with other colleagues. In this long year, therefore, we have had to put together and carry out a series of acts, including with regard to the court, in order to do what could have been done quickly, including after the unanimous adoption, in this very Senate Chamber, of the majority motions on this issue. Then more effective action could have been taken to complete the interministerial decree. Having said that, the Undersecretary has remembered perfectly that 23 July 2014 was adopted by the Council of the European Union, the proposal of the new directive to leave freedom of choice to individual countries. Until next December, Italy is responsible for presiding over the European semester: the Italian Presidency, from this point of view, will have to work further to ensure that it is not just a slogan that Italy is an ogm free country. Therefore, the subsequent acts must be carried out consistently. It has taken a step forward with regard to the new directive and we hope that the European Parliament will confirm that. Let's be frank that we are concerned: Expo 2015 is an important showcase. Also recently a strange debate has resumed in our country, which seems to invoke almost a revision of the position on genetically modified organisms, passed also for the subtle attacks on Vandana Shiva. Instead, we would like clarity, from the Government, also regarding the Expo 2015 and therefore the definitive consecration, also formal, of the fact that Italy will finally arrive at the choice of being a country free from ogms. I consider it an important result to have included among the reasons why a country can choose not to cultivate the socio-economic clauses ogm, which are one of the issues on which Italy has generally founded its position against genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u15	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, although I consider myself only very partially satisfied and will now explain the reasons. First of all the interministerial decree is due, so all the sanctions, initially criminal and that with our great displeasure we have seen become administrative, will come to decay when the decree expires. Therefore, it would be appropriate, as we senators recall from the initial motion submitted to the Senate, for the Government to commit itself to invoke the famous safeguard clause, the only instrument truly effective and sanctioned by European legislation capable of putting a point to cultivation, even if - we remember - of a single type of ogm. As far as European legislation is concerned, I would like the Government to commit itself to this issue in this six-month term because this legislation, in fact, presents a series of dark points that, combined with the Transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP), make us believe that the Member State's opportunity to choose whether or not to cultivate ogm can be endangered in various ways. In particular, Article 26-b of the new Directive gives the proposer, therefore the industry proposing the ogm, the opportunity to challenge the decision of the Member State to prohibit the cultivation in its territory of that ogm product. So, in some way, it elevates the proposer, that is, the lobby, to the political interlocutor of a state. This is already very serious, and so I would like Italy, in its European semester, to commit itself to amending this part of the directive. This, combined with the incombustant TTIP and therefore with the ISDS clause, which, as we know, would give even more opportunity to the proposer, then to the large multinational ogm, to sue the Member State for the economic damage suffered by such political decisions, worries us and leads us to believe that this directive is a bit of a fig leaf: in the sense that the European Union no longer interferes with the decision of the Member States leaving open the doors to any type of genetically modified organism, after which comes the investor who, with the economic and political strength conferred on it by this new directive and the free trade treaty, contests the decision. The danger is that in reality no state and no political force will be able to stem the invasion of ogm. I would therefore like the Government to commit itself to this particularity which is not to be underestimated. Therefore, a safeguard clause, the only valid instrument, beyond the escapisms represented by the coexistence plans. The latter, in fact, from time to time should be put in place by the Region demonstrating that that particular species cannot coexist with others; which involves every time a work of mapping the territory but also the adoption of a cleverness for which they create plans of coexistence not compatible with that Region. On the other hand, we would like to see a strong government action based on these two particularities: not elevating the proposer to a political interlocutor and a safeguard clause. The third problem concerns the Expo, which is also mentioned in the question. We would like the government's will to be explained in an Expo that is ogm free. It is curious that Vandana Shiva was invited to the Expo, that Diana while Diana Bracco, strong supporter of the ogm, will also be in that review. Among other things, Vandama Shiva has recently been the subject of very intense and totally unjustified attacks by newspapers and some political forces. This also lets us suspect that, behind good intentions, there is actually a maneuver to say only apparently no. The points of attack (a sort of leakiness) of this type of legislation are many and we would like the government to commit itself to seal up any kind of crack that can cause the ogms to enter our territory. So this small commitment is positive, but we need a much greater commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u18	DE PIN (Mixed). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, the moratorium runs out, but my feeling is quite strong compared to what has been said, on the Transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which provides for the abolition of customs duties and the removal of a whole range of tariff barriers. This agreement, which is being negotiated between the United States and the European Union, envisages the creation of the largest free trade area on the planet. To achieve this, the rules on standards, food safety and product labelling must be amended. We know that US laws on the marketing of food are much more permissive than European laws. In fact, the precautionary principle is not recognised in the USA, and it is therefore permissible to raise animals with hormones and antibiotics, to treat meat with chemicals, to market genetically modified organisms. American producers also have no obligation to specify labels. I wonder whether food labelling, once this treaty has been adopted, will continue to be the current one, or whether there will be rules that will allow American food products (genetically modified vegetables, hormone meat, chlorine-washed chickens) to make their appearance on the shelves of our supermarkets. In essence, will the food rules applied so far in the European Union continue to be applied? We know that Italian agri-food weighs 16% of GDP. It is family farming and is also the most widespread and sustainable model for European food production and in the world. Will this, which is a strategic sector, continue to be protected and encouraged or will it have to suffer the ruthless competition of American producers who are not subject to our obligations? Will we find our tables invaded by ogm products and all that has been done so far will be frustrated?
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u19	The following are questions 3-01331 and 3-01332 on the protection of Made in Italy in the agri-food and pigmeat sectors. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions which you are asking for to be taken into account raise similar questions about the country of origin or origin of agri-food products. I therefore considered it appropriate to provide a joint answer to this question. Knowledge of the country of origin or of the place of origin of an agri-food product is an indispensable requirement for the orientation to the purchase of consumers, to guarantee the right to information and the possibility of making choices that are absolutely aware. In particular, especially for our country, it stands as a strategic factor for the protection of our productive excellence, in the light of a widespread counterfeit and imitative practice, which represents a known and significant damage to the economic, cultural and social potential of the agri-food sector. Bearing these considerations in mind, the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy has always supported in Europe the mandatory indication of the country of origin or the place of origin of the products, concerting the negotiating position with the Department of Health, in order to defend the identity and competitiveness of Italian production on international and foreign markets and the right of consumers to transparency of information on traceability of products. In fact, thanks to the commitment and support of our country, the Commission Implementing Regulation No 1337 was issued on 13 December 2013 which, in addition to establishing the labelling criteria for food business operators of fresh, chilled or frozen pig meat, sheep, goat and poultry intended for marketing, introduces the requirement for the indication of the country of origin or the place of origin where the animals were reared and slaughtered. Subsequently, the European Parliament, in its resolution of 6 February 2014, invited the Commission to withdraw the said Implementing Regulation and to draw up a revised version of it which provides for the compulsory indication on the label of the place of birth and of the places of breeding and slaughter of the animal for unprocessed meat of animals of the porcine, ovine, caprine and poultry species, in accordance with existing legislation on the labelling of origin of beef (in reference to Commission Regulation No 1760 of 2000 - Title II). In any case, the change to the European regulatory framework is an excellent result for consumers, which ensures greater product awareness through label information, but also an important step in favour of Made in Italy. Indeed, the variations made to the original text proposed by the Commission have made it possible to clarify the procedures to be followed for the labelling and to provide the consumer with valid information on the production reality. The said implementing Regulation, in addition to allowing to supplement, on a voluntary basis and in compliance with Articles 36 and 37 of Regulation No 1169 of 2011, the information on the origin with further information on the origin of the meat, allows to use the term "origin" only in the case of animals born, reared and slaughtered in the same country and provides that the indication of the place of origin of the meat takes place in the following manner: the indication "origin Italia" may be used only if the animal was born, reared and slaughtered in Italy; for sheep and goats, the indication "bred in Italy" may be used only if the animal has spent at least the last six months in Italy or is slaughtered under the age of six months and has spent the entire breeding period in Italy; for poultry, the indication "farmed in Italy" may be used only if the animal has spent at least the last month in Italy but has been slaughtered under one month of age and has spent the whole fattening period in Italy; for pigs, the indication "higher weight" in Italy at less than 30 kg has been used only if the last month in Italy, but has been slaughtered in Italy but has not been used in Italy, but has four months if it has entered in Italy. However, it should be recalled that, at national level, more than 70% of all Italian pig production already produces meat in compliance with the provisions of the specifications of protected designations of origin (PDO) and protected geographical indications (PGI). In particular, the specifications of Italian PDO and PGI products, approved at European level, require that pigs belong to certain specially selected breeds, are reared under well-being conditions and according to a food programme designed for the different stages of breeding. In addition, the breeders and slaughterhouses belonging to the PDO and PGI production circuits are controlled by institutions, public or private, designated by the Ministry, which monitor the certification of pigs intended for processing into PDO and PGI products, the movement of animals to other farms, as well as the stages of slaughter, processing and possible packaging. Moreover, the circuit of these quality products includes a set of operators enrolled in an organized and controlled production system. In practice, the origin of the raw material used is traced following the following path: breeding where the pig was born; breeding which started it at the slaughterhouse; slaughterhouse; cutting and processing laboratory. In detail, the breeding of the animal (within the 30th day of life) bears an indelible stamp (tattoo) bearing its own code and the month of birth of the animal. Subsequently, the breeding from which pigs leave for the slaughterhouse certifies, by means of the unified certification of conformity, the animals of the consignment started at slaughter, indicating the tattoos related to the breeding of pigs at birth, as well as the prevailing genetic type. Such certification shall be accompanied by any certificates relating to the movement of pigs on holdings other than at birth. The slaughterhouse, by indelible stamp on the rind, then affixes its identification code on each thigh, after verifying the requirements of the product specification. Finally, the seasoner identifies and records the beginning of the seasoning process. In the case of the DOP ham of Parma and San Daniele, a pre-numbered metal seal is affixed to the thighs. In addition, official controls of the veterinary services of ASL are ensured at the slaughter and processing establishments of pigmeat which, when verifying the application of the European Regulations on the hygiene package (Regulations Nos 178 and 178 of 2002). 852, 853, 854 and 882 of 2004) also examine the traceability aspects of products, as provided for in Article 18 of Regulation No 178 of 2002. In any case, it is certain that food safety and quality can be better guaranteed through a high level of cooperation and coordination between administrations. This principle is well established and the existing European legislation on the subject is based on it. In particular, Regulation 882 of 2004 provides for each Member State to draw up a national control plan to ensure a multidisciplinary approach to the planning, conduct and reporting of official controls. To this end, the Ministry of Health is the national point of connection for the National Integrated Plan (PNI), which comes from the intense and profitable collaboration with the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, the Ministry of the Environment, the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, the nuclei of the Command of the Carabinieri (NAS, NAC and NOE), the Harbour offices, the Forest Body of the State and the Guardia di Finanza. Both the 2011-2014 PNI and the annual reports are published on the website of the Ministry of Health. I would also point out that Article 8 (4) of the Decree-Law of 18 June 1986, No 282, converted, with amendments, by Law No 462 of 1986, stipulates that the Ministry of Health shall establish a public list of commercial firms and producers who have reported convictions with a judgment passed in court for crimes of fraud and food sophistication. The Minister of Health is responsible for its publication annually, with reference to the convictions of the previous year, in the Official Journal and in at least two national newspapers. In this regard, I would like to stress the intense control activity carried out by the State Forestry Corps on national territory, aimed at combating the phenomenon of fake made in Italy and the so-called italian soiling, i.e. the misleading use, on the packaging of agri-food products, of labels or symbols that exalt the Italianity of the places of origin of the raw material, the recipe and the brand. The aim is to make food supply chains and traceability accessible to the consumer, based on the fact that food, territorial, environmental, cultural and agro-biodiversity values represent a collective good of Italy, as well as of the European Union, to be identified, advertised, exploited and defended in a different and specific way compared to other manufacturing sectors, because the food concerns the values of protection for man. In 2013, in particular, the State Forestry Corps put in place a sanctioning activity against the fake made in Italy, to protect both consumers and honest producers, penalized by unfair competition in the free trade of their goods within the Union. The controls carried out, besides constituting an effective monitoring of the Made in Italy agri-food, have allowed the seizure of about 600 tons of products and the communication of more than 170 news of crime to the prosecutors of the Italian Republic, ensuring the repression of all those conducts criminally important that have clearly contrasted with the fair conduct of the commercial exchanges and with the correct transparency information regarding the consumer. I would also like to point out that the Decree-Law of 24 June 2014, No 91, converted, with amendments, by the Law of 11 August 2014, No 116, to Article 3, provides that the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies conducts a public consultation among consumers to assess the extent to which, in the information relating to foodstuffs, the indication of the place of origin or origin of foodstuffs and of the agricultural raw material used in the preparation or production of the same and when the omission of the same indications is considered misleading. The results of the consultations will also be made public and forwarded to the European Commission. Finally, with regard to the initiatives to protect and safeguard agri-food companies affected by unfair competition, it being understood that the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies pursues, as an institutional task, the protection and protection of agri-food products and, therefore, of the relevant undertakings, evidence that many and differentiated activities and routes are active or are about to be activated for the purpose specified above and exposed. I recall, in particular, that in the so-called Italian unblocking decree have been identified the rules of extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy and measures for the attraction of investments, developed with the Ministry of Economic Development for the part concerning agri-food. In the measure, there are four guidelines for intervention to which are allocated appropriations provided for by the plan specifically for the support of Italian agro-food in the world: the valorization of the productions of excellence; support for the penetration of Italian products in the different markets, also through special agreements with distribution networks; the realization of a unique distinctive sign for agricultural and agri-food productions in order to promote them abroad and during Expo 2015; the realization of strategic promotion campaigns in the most important markets and to contrast to the phenomenon of Italian soiling. With the shares included in the decree unlocks Italy we will help companies to make a qualitative leap and to increase the turnover of exports with new tools of promotion and protection of the Made in Italy agri-food. It is an objective, as stated by Minister Martina, on which we want to work concretely, enhancing Italian productions and making them more easily recognizable. Hence the need to prepare a unique distinctive sign for agro-food and fight the fake made in Italy even more intensely. To improve competitiveness we will also intervene by promoting the creation of multi-channel logistic-distributive platforms and agreements with distribution networks abroad. The plan also has important financial cover and is also designed to leverage on a central appointment for Italian agri-food like Expo Milano 2015. Finally, with regard to the economic recovery of the agri-food sector, I recall that the aforementioned Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 includes specific initiatives in this regard. I therefore also thank the Senators Valentini and Bitonci, the first signatories of these questions, who have given the opportunity to intervene in a matter on which the Government objectively, in recent months, has worked so intensively and above all producing some very significant results.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u23	Mr Valentini (PD). Madam President, I have to say that the original question was tabled on 27 November 2013, so almost a year ago. This year the Government has made so much progress, so much so that the Undersecretary has spoken of a series of measures concerning counterfeiting and regulations at both national and European level. I put this question on the protection of Made in Italy in the agro-food and pigmeat sector because in our country there is a large quantity of pig farms, but also because there was a big problem: the import from Germany of cheap pigs, polluted, with a strong content of antibiotics but with a brand made in Italy, which made a strong competition to Italian productions. I do not know whether we have managed, through the new regulations referred to by the Undersecretary, to adequately combat this phenomenon of imports of German pigmeat (52 per cent of total imports) at low cost, which undermines the well-being, health and safety of citizens, and also causes great damage to our agricultural enterprises. Then, however, if they come from Germany and do not hurt, we certainly do not pose the problem of their origin, but the issue is mainly about the use of the brand made in Italy: there is a usurpation of the brand, with a damage to businesses and citizens. That is the point on which I put the question. The Undersecretary has responded well, in the sense that it has lined up everything that has been done this year to combat both counterfeiting and the usurpation of trademarks. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I can only say that I am satisfied with the way in which we have worked, not only on this, but also on agri-food: in fact, we know very well that over 17% of gross domestic product is made in Italy, while more than 53 billion euros come from the agricultural sector. We therefore have an important resource, which is made in Italy and important is what we are doing, from logistic platforms to commercial distribution. Agri-food is not limited to rural areas alone, as it is a real economic and development sector, which must become an element of growth in our country. This is a bit of the line that has been chosen. Mr Undersecretary, as you are well aware, a work is being done on the State Forestry Corps: in the Commission we are working on the bill for which the State Forestry Corps is about to be integrated into the Police. The controls must be done and done well: the decrees and the rules are there. Can we ensure that these rules and regulations are implemented seriously? Can we make sure that our brands are not usurped and that our regulations do not remain on paper and are not just theoretical? That, in my opinion, is the problem, because for the rest we have been thinking and thinking about this year in the Committee on Agriculture, together with the Government and in particular the Subsecretaries: this is also the result of the work of a year. But then we have to follow and put into practice what is our line and strategy in this area: that, I must say, concerns me very much.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u26	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, if I may say so, I would like to say to Mr Valentini that we should never be satisfied, in the sense that we should never put the government in a position to lower our guard, because expressing satisfaction also leads to a state of complacency or relaxation on the other side. We are talking about a sector, that of agri-food made in Italy, which represents almost a fifth of gross domestic product: we are talking about made in Italy, that classified part of quality destined for export, even with very serious difficulties that depend on other factors. We have a euro staggered with respect to our economy; we have a euro, a strong currency, which prevents us from exporting and, despite everything, this type of product - the agri-food one, but as well as other Italian products, from manufacturing to style, fashion and so on - is extremely attractive. Let's try not to lower this pleasure on our products as well. A figure, which says little and says so much: more than 800,000 companies work in this sector, which is then 15% of the Italian ones; so we are not talking about a secondary sector. What can this sector boast of compared to the rest of Europe (about half of the European States) that competes with a certain type of our productions? We have a record in terms of quality, which is recognized to us, and in terms of safety levels and food control systems: it is precisely this system of food controls that allows us to classify one of our products as a bit better than others. Mrs Valentini has already touched on the issue of Germany: we do not know how those animals are bred, however, from the analyses on meat, we see how many antibiotics are used in the pig sector. With reference to this last sector, from the very punctual exhibition of the representative of the Government - to which I address myself - emerges almost a targeted interest to arrive at the great international event of Expo 2015 with a brand Italy and a system Italy to be circulated and monetized. So far it's okay, too bad the world doesn't end in 2015, but it'll go on. We are all on parallel tracks to have to contain the flaws of each system, and even the Italian one has them. I used the adjective "Paralleli" because everyone does what they can and what they can, a bit like in the English wars: on all flags - all of which were different, because they belong to different counties - there was the same writing: "My country, right or wrong" (Right or wrong, it's my country and therefore, whether I'm in the majority or the opposition, I have to work for my country). Just on the pig sector we are still working with an Italian-Taiwan forum, because Asian countries, as soon as they notice a dysfunction in an area of our country, draw up a black list. In the pig sector, for example, there is a problem limited to Sardinia, which is called blue tongue or PSA (African swine fever), a historical phenomenon entirely confined to Sardinia. However, let us explain to an Asian that Italian products - such as San Daniele ham, which we have mentioned, or Parma - are completely immune, because pigs are not importing from Sardinia, as there is an import ban. Until we bounce and know these things and change these lists, however, our products will still - alas - undergo a blockade and a kind of moratorium. This question, therefore, has not yet been overcome, while that of oranges, which did not touch our country: in Asia, however, when there is a dysfunction in the Mediterranean area, it generalizes. Morocco's oranges, from a hygienic point of view, had qualities that were not acceptable, so the blockade was put on all the oranges in the Mediterranean; you want to explain that Sicily is another thing and that Morocco is on the other side. So far, I think, we have managed to make these passages, so here we all move according to the interests of our country. Our question is almost a year old, so it is relatively old and outdated. We are concerned, however, with what is happening these days: Europe is signing the famous TTIP, the Transatlantic trade investment partnership, in which the levels for this trade liberalisation are lowered. We almost renounce our very high quality features, even in the controls, to reach standards that are good for Americans. Instead, we should make it clear that we do not use pesticides or meat with hormones and that we have banned GMOs: let us know these things, because we should know that Italian products are of a different quality. Ours, in conclusion, is a reminder to the Government of the need to protect our agricultural products and brands as much as possible, because they are still the only ones that can make this weak sector of ours survive on the international markets.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u27	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u28	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2014-10-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-339.ana.u29	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.05 p.m.
