ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws /house print 206/ - second reading The present proposal will be presented by the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka for the plaintiff. Please take the floor. And I'm going to ask everyone in the room to move any discussion into the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, I would like to make a proposal for a law amending the law on inland navigation at second reading. The main objective of the proposal is to transpose three directives of the European Union into national law. The draft law also takes into account two relevant directly applicable European Union rules. In particular, the draft law responds to a new Union regulation laying down the conditions and procedures for certifying the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of vessels on the national waterways of the European Union and for the recognition of such qualifications in the Member States of the European Union. Unlike the previous Union regulation, which has only affected boatmasters, the new regulation also applies to other professional crew members and certain other persons. The draft law introduces new harmonised and national requirements for minimum age and professional and health competence of persons who will be a condition for the granting of authorisation for the management or operation of vessels and for the pursuit of other professional activities in inland navigation. It also sets out the documents, the procedure of the shipping office and other requirements, while at the same time anchoring a register of crew members of vessels and experts on vessels the administrator of which will be the State Fair Administration. The scope of the data kept in this register shall be determined by Union law. The Economic Committee recommended the consideration and approval of the draft law, as amended by the proposed amendment, which aims to exclude, under precisely defined conditions, the responsibility of the leaders of selected small vessels for their leadership under the influence of alcohol. It precisely determines the extent to which it will be tolerated in the future, which is consistent with normal practice and a very low level of social and health risk. This is a clear definition of the activity carried out on selected vessels without their own machinery drive. At the same time, it determines the territorial criterion of the proposed measure. And as I mentioned, it proposes a tolerable alcohol content for skippers, which must be less than half a permile. For all the reasons I mentioned, the Ministry of Transport agrees with this amendment. So much for a brief opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 206/1 and 206/2. I therefore ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jiří Hájek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, where appropriate, of the amendments. Do we have Mr Hájek here? [[Call off the microphone.]] So Mr Hájek is not here, so I would like to ask for a proposal from someone else from the Economic Committee. Mr. Munzar? Yes, Mr. Ambassador? Okay. So we have to vote on it. Well, I'm gonna have to get some more of us in here. [[12.30 hours]] Well, if the rapporteur's change doesn't have to be voted, but if it does, someone better confirm it to me so we don't make a mistake. [[Informal briefing.]] We don't have to, just first reading, okay. So we will not vote on the amendment of the rapporteur at this time and I therefore take into account that the rapporteur will be Mr Munzar, and I am asking him to inform us briefly about the discussion of the proposal in committee. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. The Economic Committee discussed before the second reading at its meeting the amendment to the Inland Navigation Act, as the Minister has informed us, and only one of the amendments tabled was discussed, or only one amendment was tabled, which is mine for a group of Members, and that is the very tolerance of alcohol for watermen. The Economic Committee gave a positive opinion on this amendment, which is why it is part of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u5	Thank you. And I am opening this general debate to which Members have joined - the first Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u6	Thank you. I do not want to stir up the debate today, ladies and gentlemen, about the amendment that is tabled, about this line, everyone has their own life attitude and personal opinion about it, and they will certainly express themselves at the third reading in the vote. However, I feel obliged to inform that it is precisely for a group of Members across the political spectrum with the support of the Minister that I have put forward a proposal for the tolerance of half a mile of alcohol for watermen. I owe an explanation of why and especially in what wording it was given. In the proposed amendment, we have returned exactly to the text on which the greatest consensus existed after very long discussions in past periods. We didn't change the text, the design, the comma. This amendment ended in fact in the last period in the Senate's return, which extended this tolerance to cyclists, and no longer found in the House both the majority for the Senate's proposal and 101 for the Senate's vote and the return to the House's original proposal. Thus, it is a tolerance of half a mile, but it will not apply to transport significant water flows, i.e. to the public the lower flows of the Elbe, the Vltava and Moravia, where there would be a likelihood of collision with large vessels. This was the result of a major discussion just in the past period. I would like to point out that this is a tolerance which will not be considered an offence and therefore will not be subject to a fine for the watermen, but will not deprive the watermen of their own responsibility for any damage and for their actions. Other laws, such as Law No, remain in force. 65/2007 Coll., on Health Protection against the Harmful Effects of Narcotic Drugs, Criminal Code, Civil Code. In other words, everyone has to assume legal consequences if they do something under the influence of alcohol and cause some damage. We believe that the limit of half a mile is reasonable, it is the protection of the decent people who will have one beer on the water, but it is not a general excuse for drunks, I would like to stress that here. Let me make one point at the end. The zero tolerance doesn't match the reality of those waters. Laws alone cannot replace the responsibility of individual people, and if we have laws that people do not respect, this leads to a reduction of respect for the rule of law as a whole. So let me sum up this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u7	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mr Martin Kolovratník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u8	Good afternoon, I promise I won't keep the Minister or you long before lunch. I'm just gonna say two things really quick. First, what I announced, or what I mentioned at first reading at the beginning of June. I would like to remind you of the end of the validity of about 50,000 authorisations of small boat leaders, these are approvals which are older than 2014 and are not yet possible - as the Ministry of Transport is already heading towards this, and, rightly, for driving licences through the Portal of Citizens, to prepare it digitally, for those leaders it is not possible yet, it is necessary to go to the State Maritime Administration personally. So once again, I want to appeal to this, or remind the government, the ministry, not to forget the information campaign of the world, so that people don't lose it - ad 1. And the second - ad 2 - very briefly, and I think it may be more important, I will follow up on Mr Vojtěch Munzar. I myself, the Minister, hopefully, will be pleased with this, one of the co-submitters, or I signed up for the amendment concerning the alcohol in the waterboats, is indeed a compromise. I will remind you that it was discussed in this form, modified or as if it had been cut to a reasonable degree already in the previous parliamentary term, unfortunately it did not succeed, and there are really a lot and a lot of compromises. This means half a mile, moments, or waterways where there are not - or flows where there are not those monitored waterways, where there is therefore no conflict with any tourist large motorboat and so on. And in the third time, it's really only for vessels without their own propulsion. I just don't always have to raise people, do some hard work and keep an eye on them, let them have some freedom, and here's where the compromise meets these exact parameters. I know, I've been asked a few of my colleagues from the Yes Club, not everyone's got that opinion, that's just it. And, of course, I can't speak for my colleagues or the President, we'll discuss this before the third reading, I suppose we'll keep the free vote on this matter, that we'll just all decide how he feels and we'll see. Alone, because I'm a co-president, I'll be optimistic. If it has the support of the Ministry of Transport and therefore the government coalition, I think it might work. And we'll see what happens on the watercourses. I am optimistic about this. That is all, I am not filing an amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else wants to speak in detail? But there is a factual comment by Mr Munzar and then by Mr Nacher in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u10	I'm just being factual, just specifying the first part of what Mr. Kolovratník here said, through you, these are the changes to the IDs. I have entered into a detailed debate not to read or read the amendment to tolerance of alcohol, this has been done through the Economic Committee, but I will be reading three technical amendments here, or I will take them as technical ones, and one of them will provide an additional deadline for the exchange of licences so that there will be more time for the leaders of small vessels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u11	Thank you. Another factual one - Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, I also wanted to boast that I was signed. [[Fun in the hall, applause.]] Thank you for the applause, which was probably given by signing in even though I don't drink alcohol myself. So I would point out the seriousness of this situation. And I'd like to ask, because I'm looking forward to the argument against it, and I don't think we're going to discuss it at second reading right now, so I guess in the third, so I'm looking forward to the debate, and I hope I don't start drinking alcohol until then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u13	Thank you. Therefore, if no one is already enrolled in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word - the minister? The rapporteur? No. [[Voice: Detailed debate yet.]] Yeah, I'll take that as a general, I'll ask for a general. And I am opening this debate in detail. I recall that the amendments tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Mr Munzar has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u14	Yes, thank you. I volunteered to read three amendments on behalf of my colleague Blaha, who is excused from today's House meeting, as I said. I will no longer read the amendment to the tolerance of alcohol for watermen, because it has been loaded and approved by the Economic Committee. [[12.40 hours]] So I'm signing up for the House document under the designation 1056, that's the additional deadline for issuing the licenses by one year. House document 1057, Amendment 1057 to Mr Blaha, who says that the State Fair Administration will no longer save the accidents of small vessels without self-propelled, that is, canoes, rafts and the like, it is saving administrative work to the State Fair Administration, because this is mostly saving the police if something happens there. And the last amendment under 1058 is to shift the effectiveness of the entire law, because it was assumed that its effectiveness would take place from 1 July 2022. This deadline has passed, which is why there is a proposal to postpone it by one year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-20-ps2021-029-03-005-017.u15	Thank you. No one else is entered into a detailed debate, which concludes it. And before I end reading the whole proposal to do the administration a favor - I apologise to Mr Beitl, for family reasons, for the whole of today's negotiations. I also apologise to Mrs Fialová between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. for the reasons of work and for President Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 12.15 am to 15.00 p.m. Since we have exhausted everything about this point, I am ending reading this proposal and at the same time ending the 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and wish you all a nice day and a nice holiday, if necessary. Thank you.
