ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u1	57. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the Czech Republic's approach Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European satellite satellite organisation EUTELSAT and the Agreement amending the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European satellite organisation (EUTELSAT) as amended by Corrigendum No. 1 of 16 January 2006 and with ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation "EUTELSAT' of 1982, its amendments 1983 and 1999 /German press 91/ - first reading We're at first reading. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the Parliament of the Czech Republic has been re-sent to the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT to give its consent to its ratification, the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of EUTELSAT and the Agreement amending this Protocol as amended by Amending No. 1 of 16 January 2006 to give consent to the Czech Republic's access to them. EUTELSAT was established in 1977 to operate a satellite system providing telecommunications services for transmission of television and radio broadcasting, telephone calls and data within Europe. The Czech Republic acceded to the Convention establishing EUTELSAT on the basis of the Government Resolution of 25 August 1993 number 475, to amendments to the Convention by the Government Resolution of 14 June 2000 number 614 and in accordance with the regulations at that time. It did not accede to the 1987 Protocol on Privileges and Immunities and to the 2002 Agreement on its amendments. The privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT correspond to the tasks of the organisation and the privileges and immunities of other professional international government organisations. EUTELSAT has its seat in France, where the rights and immunities of the organisation are exercised in particular. In this situation, the application of the Protocol in the case of the mission of representatives of the Contracting Parties and of officials to the Czech Republic is taken into account. Documents governing the privileges and immunities of the organisation are part of the organisation's basic documents and it is assumed that the EUTELSAT Contracting Parties will also be bound by the provisions on privileges and immunities. It is therefore proposed that the Czech Republic accede to the Protocol and to the Agreement on its amendments. At the same time, the EUTELSAT Convention will be transferred from government to presidential level to meet current constitutional requirements. Subsequently, the texts of the Convention should be ratified by the President of the Republic and the instruments of access to the Protocol and to the Agreement signed. No member contributions or access to the Protocol and no financial commitments are made to the Czech Republic in EUTELSAT. So it will have no impact on the state budget. The previous Government discussed the material submitted on 9 December 2019 and, by resolution 886, agreed with the Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol and the Agreement. It also expressed its consent to the ratification and amendment of the Convention. The material was subsequently submitted to both Parliament's chambers in 2020. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after discussing the Committees, gave its consent to the Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol and to the Agreement and to the ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT by its resolution number 372 at the 21st meeting on 29 April 2020. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic did not discuss the proposal during the previous term of office. The proposal is therefore re-submitted to both chambers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u4	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, the Minister has already presented this point in detail. I will merely repeat the basic fact that the government has already discussed this point in December 2019, the Senate has also. Since most have already been said and the financial consequences on our state do not have it, so only confirm, I will no longer delay and recommend further to discuss and agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate on this point. Mr Kobza reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I may repeat some of the data here, but it's never from the point of view. The EUTELSAT system was established in 1977 on the basis of an agreement between European States and subsequently at an intergovernmental conference in Paris in 1982 adopted conventions establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation (EUTELSAT), which entered into force on 1 September 1985. The operational agreement on the European satellite satellite organisation EUTELSAT was subsequently adopted in 1987 as well as the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European satellite organisation, which entered into force on 17 August 1988. These organisations provided international and national fixed satellite services, in particular telephone and data transmissions, commercial communications, transmissions of television and radio programmes. [[11.00 hours]] The amendments to the original 1983 Convention were approved by the meeting of the EUTELSAT Parties in May 1999. They have been applied since 2 July 2001 in accordance with the resolution adopted to this end by the EUTELSAT Assembly in May 1999. On the basis of the above amendment to the 1999 Convention, the organisation was privatised in 2001 and its transformation into a commercial company EUTELSAT, a joint-stock company. These amendments entered into force on 28 November 2002. By amending the Convention and repealing the operating agreement, all rights to the use of the space segment were transferred to the privatised company EUTELSAT, a joint-stock company. However, the activities of EUTELSAT continue to be governed by the Convention and the Protocol and, as an intergovernmental organisation, is entrusted with the supervision of the private company EUTELSAT, a.s. The Czech Republic has been a party to the Convention since 15 December 1993 on the basis of Government Resolution No 475 of 25 August 1993. The Government of the Czech Republic approved the Convention, as amended in May 1999, by the Assembly of the EUTELSAT Parties, by a resolution of 14 June 2000 No 614, but did not accede to the abovementioned Protocol and to the Agreement in force from 6 September 2002. Documents governing the privileges and immunities of the organisation belong to the basic documents of the organisation and for these reasons it is now proposed that the Czech Republic accede to them. The Protocol and the Agreement shall govern the legal personality, privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT. The archives of EUTELSAT are untouchable. EUTELSAT as a legal person shall be excluded from the jurisdiction of the Contracting Parties. The representatives of the Contracting Parties shall enjoy privileges and immunities in the exercise of their official functions and shall be immune to arrest, baggage seizure, not subject to the jurisdiction of the courts in the course of travel to the place of exercise of those functions. The organization's officials shall be exempt from national service, including military service, together with family members. The privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT are financial, linked to the activities of EUTELSAT and the performance of the EUTELSAT service. They correspond to the tasks of the organisation and the privileges and immunities of other professional international government organisations. The implementation of the obligations arising from the Protocol and the Agreement is ensured under the applicable laws of the Czech Republic, in particular by the relevant provisions of the tax exemption legislation. From the perspective of the legal order of the Czech Republic, EUTELSAT is a separate international organisation covered by Act 235/2004 Coll., on value added tax, as amended, which also provides for exemption from value added tax for international organisations and refund of paid tax. The similar regulation is contained in Sections 11 and 15 of Act No. 253/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended. The Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol and the Agreement is, according to all experts, in accordance with the constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, as well as obligations entered into under other applicable treaties with generally recognised principles of international law. It should also be noted that no membership contributions and access to the Protocol and no financial commitments are made in the EUTELSAT organisation and to the Agreement of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr. Bžoch. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be a little shorter and briefer. I would like to support this proposal if we would order it to the Foreign Committee to discuss, as is customary in the House. It's up to the committee to deal with it. I just briefly, it was said here, however, why I want this foreign committee, why: because the Protocol and the Agreement belong to the classic presidential treaty within our right, that means that the government has properly presented it to both chambers of Parliament. [[unintelligible]] Unfortunately, what happened here in the past period when we submitted contracts did not get to them for various reasons, whether they were political reasons or any other. Of course, I would like us to treat these conventions differently during this period, because this treaty or this Agreement is in our country for a much longer time than it deserves. The Senate usually treats these treaties more proactively than our House and approves them in its nearest negotiations. Unfortunately, we have been pushing some of the treaties ahead of us for several parliamentary periods. For example, I would like us to reach a treaty concerning Kosovo, and I believe that this House will find political courage to do so this time. Thank you for your attention, and once again, I would like to ask for the commandment to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u9	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? Yes, Mr Havlíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u10	Thank you. Hello again. Very briefly, and I thank the Minister that the law has now come on the agenda of the day. We have prepared it in times past, there is a delay, that is to be acknowledged, and it is therefore important that it is approved today. At first glance, it may seem less substantial, but EUTELSAT is not an irrelevant issue at all, and it is good that we have all our accounts settled against our partners in a way that is okay. So that I recommend to everyone that this be approved, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else sign up for the debate on this point? Chairman of the Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is important to discuss this because the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees with this law, gives consent to the Czech Republic's access to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT and to the Agreement amending Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation and, secondly, on the ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT of 1982 and its amendments of 1983 and 1999. I think it is important to say what is actually the result of this contract, which is the agreement for the Czech Republic and what the Czech Republic will be involved in in the future. The material is called Access of the Czech Republic to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of EUTELSAT, to the Agreement on its amendments and the proposal for ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT of 1982. The EUTELSAT system was established in 1977 on the basis of an agreement between European States. Subsequently, the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation, hereinafter referred to as the Convention, which entered into force on 1 September 1985, including the Appendix, and the Operating Agreement on the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT, was adopted at the Intergovernmental Conference held in Paris in 1982. Furthermore, in 1987 the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation, which entered into force on 17 August 1988, was adopted. The organisation provided international and national fixed satellite services, in particular telephone and data transmissions, commercial communications, transmissions of television and radio programmes. The amendments to the original 1983 Convention were approved by the meeting of the EUTELSAT Parties in May 1999. They were provisionally applied as of 2 July 2001, in accordance with a resolution adopted for this purpose by the EUTELSAT Assembly in May 1999. [[11.10 hours]] Following an amendment to the 1999 Convention, the organisation was privatised in 2001 and transformed into a commercial EUTELSAT, a joint-stock company. Amendments to the 1999 Convention entered into force on 28 November 2002. As of 2 July 2001, the amendment to the Convention on the abolition of the operating agreement passed on a provisional basis and from 28 November 2002 on a definitive basis all rights for the use of the space segment to the privatised company EUTELSAT, a joint-stock company. The activities of EUTELSAT shall continue to be governed by the Convention and the Protocol. As an intergovernmental organisation, he is entrusted with the supervision of the private company EUTELSAT, a joint-stock company. The intergovernmental organisation currently consists of 49 Member States, including the Czech Republic. The needs of the Member States shall be served by a multi-member secretariat led by the Executive Secretary. EUTELSAT's intergovernmental organisation oversees the operation of the EUTELSAT satellite system, a joint-stock company, in accordance with the basic principles which must be respected in the new organisation structure and which, pursuant to Article 3 of the Convention, as amended in May, are: firstly, the provision of publicly beneficial services, secondly, the provision of services without discrimination, thirdly, compliance with equal conditions of competition and fourth, the pan-European scope of the EUTELSAT satellite system. Now let us see why this material is actually presented to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament. The Czech Republic has been a party to the Convention since 15 December 1993 on the basis of the Government Resolution of August 1993. The Charter of Access of the Czech Republic was deposited with the depositary of the Convention in 1993. The Government of the Czech Republic approved the Convention, as amended in May 1999, by the Assembly of the EUTELSAT Parties by a resolution of 14 June 2000, but did not accede to the aforementioned Protocol and to the Agreement of 6 September 2002. This fact was confirmed by the Secretariat of this intergovernmental organisation on the occasion of the meetings of the EUTELSAT parties from 22 to 23 April 2015. The Secretariat also provided texts of documents to which the Czech Republic should accede. The following documents are concerned: (a) Protocol, (b) Agreement amending the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telephonic Satellite Organisation, as amended by Corrigendum No 1 from 2006. Documents governing the privileges and immunities of the organisation are part of the organisation's basic documents. For these reasons, it is proposed that the Czech Republic accede to the above mentioned documents. Access of the Czech Republic to the Protocol on the Agreement: The Protocol and the Agreement belong, in terms of Czech law, to the treaties of the presidential category, as they affect the rights and obligations of persons and relate to matters the regulation of which is reserved for the law, Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, (a) the Constitution of the Czech Republic. For this reason, the Protocol and the Agreement will be submitted to the Parliament of the Czech Republic after their approval by the Government. Following the approval of access to these international agreements by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the instruments of access to the Protocol and the Agreement will be signed by the President of the Republic. This means that the Czech Parliament needs the President's consent to sign the Agreement and Protocol. For the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic's access to the Protocol and the Agreement will become valid on the 30th day following the date of deposit of the instruments of access with the Executive Secretary of EUTELSAT. The Protocol and the Agreement shall govern the legal personality, privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT. The archives of EUTELSAT are untouchable. EUTELSAT as a legal person shall be excluded from the jurisdiction of the Contracting Parties. Property and income are exempt from direct taxes. The representatives of the Contracting Parties shall enjoy privileges and immunities in the exercise of their official functions and during the journey to the place of performance of those functions. Officials of the organisation shall be exempt from national service, including military service, together with family members. They may, on their first entry into office in the territory of a foreign State, bring items of personal use without customs duty and export them at the end of their duties. They are exempt from social security charges and income tax. Well, that's very interesting - I would say that these officials enjoy far greater benefits than diplomats, not only when crossing borders, but, for example, social security and so on. I am therefore not quite sure why this organisation's officials should not pay social security and contribute to their pension. The privileges and immunities of EUTELSAT shall be functional and shall be linked to the activities of EUTELSAT and to the performance of the EUTELSAT service. They correspond to the tasks of the organisation and the privileges and immunities of other professional international government organisations. EUTELSAT has its seat in France, where the rights and immunities of the organisation are exercised in particular. In this situation, the application of the Protocol in the case of the mission of representatives of the Contracting Parties and of officials to the Czech Republic is taken into account. The implementation of the obligations arising from the Protocol and the Agreement is ensured under the applicable laws of the Czech Republic, in particular by the relevant provisions of the tax exemption legislation. That's another problem. I think we're all talking about canceling the exceptions we have in different systems, and their more than 300, maybe almost 500, those exceptions, especially with regard to various financial matters. And here's another exception that they're excluded from taxation and all that. I don't understand why a clerk, even from some cosmic organization, should be removed, his money, from taxation. The implementation of the obligations arising from the Protocol and the Agreement is ensured under the applicable laws of the Czech Republic, in particular by the relevant provisions of the Financial Rules on Taxation. From the point of view of the legal order of the Czech Republic, EUTELSAT is an independent international organisation covered by Law No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, which also provides for VAT exemptions for international organisations and refunds on taxes paid. A similar adjustment is contained in Sections 11 and 15 of the Law 353 on excise duties, as amended. The accession of the Czech Republic to the Protocol and to the Agreement is in accordance with constitutional rules and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, as well as obligations entered into under other applicable treaties and with the generally recognised principles of international law. There are no membership contributions or access to the protocol in EUTELSAT and no financial commitments will arise to the agreement of the Czech Republic. It will therefore be without impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic. Ratification of the Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT, as amended in 1982 and its amendments in 1983 and 1999: the 1982 Convention and its amendments in 1983 have already been approved by the Government's resolution in 1993. The amendment to the 1999 Convention was approved by the Government Resolution of 2000. The Convention was negotiated by the Czech Republic prior to the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic in 1993, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 395/2001 Sb. and were negotiated as government contracts. The amendment amended the requirements for the negotiation of international agreements more clearly from the point of view of the criteria for determining for which international agreements they are subject to ratification of the consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. According to those criteria, the Convention therefore falls within the category of presidential treaties. [[11.20 hours]] In order to formally reconcile the process of access of the Czech Republic to EUTELSAT basic documents and their changes to current constitutional requirements, it is submitted to express its consent to the ratification of the text of the 1982 Convention and its amendments from 1983 and 1999. They shall also be submitted for the consent of the Protocol and the Agreement. The Government discussed the material submitted on 9 December 2019 and, by its resolution, agreed with the Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol and the Agreement and the ratification of the Convention and its amendments. The Government of the Czech Republic submitted a proposal to express its consent to the material to both chambers of Parliament in 2020. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after discussing the Committees, agreed on the Czech Republic's approach to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT, to the Agreement amending the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation EUTELSAT and on the ratification of the 1982 Convention establishing the European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation and its amendments to 1983 and 1999. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, despite the fact that this item has been included several times on the agenda, did not discuss the proposal during the previous term of office. The proposal is therefore re-submitted to both chambers. So we're looking at what it looks like and why we have this law. The SPD movement with this draft law on this organisation, access to the Agreement and Protocol has no problem. We will, of course, vote in favour of accession to this Agreement and for this ratification and the SPD movement gives and will give its approval by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Adamec is reporting with a factual remark. I would just like to say that there are no inaccuracies: it is not a law, Mr President, it is an international treaty. So just to be clear. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members, I would like to thank the SPD gentlemen, especially President Fial, for the education of the material, because it will make it much easier for us to work on the Economic Committee. I almost remember her by heart, and I think she's probably gonna haunt me in my sleep tonight. But "repeated mother of wisdom" is said. I thank you for that, because it really makes my job easier. I just wanted to respond to the conditions that govern this company's employees. So it was set up at the firm, and we're not the ones who could change it. Of course, we can criticise some things, but we must also recognize the position of that organisation in Europe or the world. So thank you very much and I look forward to hearing on the Economic Committee, which I believe will be very short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u15	Thank you very much. I said, anybody else checking in? The rapporteur. Anyway, I'll give it my word, maybe in the final word. Does anyone else report to the general debate on this press? Madam Vice-President reporting. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u16	honourable Members, just a response to Mr Adamec. If I'm not mistaken, even if it's the law, it's under contract, and I assume that this proposal will only go to the Foreign Committee. But maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u17	Thank you very much. We will get to that at the moment, and, of course, after the general debate, we will vote on the commandments of the various committees. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is in the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'd like some final words, please. I'll ask the plaintiff, the minister, if he's interested in the final word? He's not interested, the rapporteur said so. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for repeating all the essential facts. We've heard some facts three or four times, but I believe you know the contract in detail. Unfortunately, we didn't get to the additions, but I believe you don't want us to read the entire treaty and the additions. Anyway, I would just like to say on the employee note -- the company, that means the headquarters, is situated in France, so we are based on the conditions that are set out there, and we are only here to ratify the overall agreement. Thank you for all the performances, thank you for the consent of all the clubs. So I am asking for a commandment to the committees, and I am following up on my colleague Bžoch today, and I believe that this treaty will be ratified by this Parliament so that the President can approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. I did not notice any proposals tabled in the general debate that could be put to the vote. I will ask the rapporteur who followed the debate if that is the case? No proposals have been formulated in the general debate. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal other than to appoint a foreign committee as a guarantee committee? Yes, I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. At the same time, I'm gonna make sure that there's a chance for colleagues from the lobby as well. Please register with your cards. The number of Members has stabilized. I'm just gonna repeat what we're gonna vote on. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 127 Members voted in favour of 127, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have confirmed the foreign committee as a guarantee committee. I ask my colleagues if there is a proposal for another committee to discuss the press in question? Chairman of the Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u20	Thank you. I have called on the President of the Economic Committee to contact me here, who himself announced that we would be dealing with this on the Economic Committee. So I would suggest an economic committee to deal with it, because that's where it's always been, and I think the treaty belongs there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-002-057.u21	Yes, thank you. I will vote on the Economic Committee and I am also correcting myself: we do not have a guarantee committee on international agreements, so we voted on the foreign committee as one of the committees that will deal with the treaty. Well, there's a proposal for another committee, an economic committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this press being dealt with by the Economic Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 134 Members voted in favour of 132, two abstentions. The proposal was adopted, press 91 will also be dealt with by the Economic Committee. Is there any other proposal for an alternative committee to deal with the press in question? I don't. And that's what we've dealt with in the first reading of this press with everything. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant, and I conclude the debate on paragraph 57. [[11.30 hours]] The next item is the item
