ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-010-024.u1	24. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on medical devices and diagnostic medical devices in vitro /house print 168/ - first reading I am going back to the closed general debate of this House press. I wonder if you want the final words here, the Minister or the rapporteur? It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. Let's take a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 115; 167 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 153, against no one. This proposal has been approved. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if you have a proposal to order this press to the next committee or committees? I don't see this proposal. That is why I am going to vote on the last proposal. In the merged debate, a proposal was made to shorten the 30-day time limit. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this proposal so that the hearing period is reduced by 30 days, i.e. 30 days? Who's against it? Voting with order number 116, 167 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 130, against no one. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We've approved a deadline for 30 days. I'm done discussing this point. [[18.20 hours]] At the same time, I'm going to load an apology. From 18.10 to the end of the day, Mrs Kovářová apologises. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
