ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on this second day of the 19th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask all of you to sign up with your ID cards, or please inform me who you are asking for a replacement card. And I know that these wounds are difficult, and there's a lot you want to say to yourself - I'm gonna ask you to transfer the discussions into the foyer. First of all, I say that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting. Members of Parliament Ivan Adamec from 11.45 to 13:00 - working reasons, Andrej Babiš - medical reasons until 13:30, Jan Berki - working reasons, Jaroslav Bžoch - foreign travel, Eva Decroix - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - foreign travel, Jaroslav Dvořák - medical reasons, Josef Flek - working reasons, Aleš Juchelka - foreign travel, David Kasal - family reasons, Ondřej Kolář - health reasons, Jan Kuchař - foreign travel, Jan Lacina - foreign travel... [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Please, whoever you want to discuss is perfectly legitimate to go into the lobby. Jan Lacina - foreign trip, Vladimíra Lesenská - health reasons, Ondřej Lochman - foreign trip, Nina Nováková - health reasons, Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová - foreign trip, Michal Ratiborský - foreign trip, Michaela Šebelová - working grounds, Iveta Štefanová - health reasons, Róbert Teleky within 14 hours - working reasons, Milan Wenzl - health reasons. Minister Mikuláš Bek apologizes from the members of the government for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý due to foreign travel, Vít Rakušan from 12 o'clock for work reasons and Michal Šalomoun until 12.30 for work reasons. This, ladies and gentlemen, has shown an apology so far. And today's negotiations should begin with firmly placed points. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] Thank you for the silence. These points are in the following order: point 73 - Measures in the field of taxation, point 5 on excise duties, point 2 on road transport, point 3 on roads and point 4 - Construction Act. Following these fixed classifications, we would continue by discussing points from the Law block - first reading according to the order that was proposed for Tuesday, which were points 22, 21, 12, 14, 7, 8 and 9. Then, at 1:30 p.m., we have a fixed election point of 80 to 83. That would be the point to discuss. But I will now ask whether one of the Members wants to use the room for proposals to amend the approved programme? Madam Vice-President reporting. So now there is room for proposals to amend the already approved 19th meeting programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to thank you for yesterday's inclusion of the point that we have jointly approved here, and this is the presentation of a strategic document on how to manage the refugee wave. So yesterday, the Chamber of Deputies approved that this item would be placed on the agenda of this meeting, but the Chamber of Deputies did not approve when that item would be included. I think that this is a very important document that we should have had by the end of March after an extension of the emergency by 58 days has been approved here, so the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan has asked the Chamber of Deputies to present this strategy by 14 April. Yesterday I announced that we got it into our e-mail boxes only the day before the Chamber of Deputies meeting - I must apologize for that, it really came from the Organizing Committee on 14 April, and because the Organizing Committee was aware that perhaps not all Members had registered it, so they sent it again before the Chamber of Deputies meeting. But I would like to say that what the Minister of the Interior has put forward as head of the crisis staff on the resolution of the refugee crisis is not a strategy. It's not the document we were expecting, it's not the document we asked for, so I'd like to ask you again, after the first point that's there in the third reading, to place such an important point. I assume that even in your regions this problem is resonating, that you have something to bring and say about the strategy, the document that is currently being presented and is not a strategy for us to have here as soon as possible a strategy to address the refugee crisis. We don't currently have, and we don't know what's going to be here in two months, what's going to be here in six months, what's going to be here in a year. That's what strategy is all about. At the same time, you certainly perceive the problems of mayors, mayors, captains, who resonate from the regions every day. This means that the system, HUMPO, for example, is the information system where information about accommodation providers and accommodations is to be inserted, so not only does the data work hard, so for example, now all the data is missing, so the data isn't. The fact that this system is supposed to be connected to the foreign police system, and it's not up to now, that's the second thing. There is one important thing to say here that the regions are putting information into the information system regarding the accommodation providers, but then we have the natural persons who are staying, they are receiving a financial amount of about CZK 12,000, and this system is under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the system has not been launched yet, according to the information I have, until now. The fact that the regions are calling for the fact that they don't know how many people they have on their territory to date, and they need to have these data in order to figure out how many places they need in kindergartens, primary schools, how many pediatricians, practices and employment - that's what keeps happening here, but it's still not improving, and they still don't have the data of the region. Yesterday, information came in that the Minister of Interior agreed with the governor on three premises suitable for Ukrainian Rom that one of the objects should be in the Central Bohemia Region, the other in the Highlands and the third in the South Moravian Region. [[9.10 hours]] I really believe that such an important thing and such an essential thing must be discussed and discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and we really read only the sentences in that document that has been presented at the moment: we will examine, process, map and arise. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] You won't find one term in that document, you won't find who's responsible for what. The only thing you can read in the quotation marks is that there will be a national coordinator who is currently approved by the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, who called on the Security Committee not to disown it, but that it would be a good idea for someone else to be the coordinator, and when the Security Committee tried to adopt a resolution for this coordinator, and the logic of the matter certainly gives it to the Home Secretary, because he is the head of the Central Crisis Staff, such a resolution was not adopted by the Security Committee. I would like to ask, first of all, the Coalition Members once again, to support the proposal that the refugee crisis strategy be included in today's Chamber of Deputies' meeting, to discuss this important document and to have a clear framework on what it should look like, because I say again that yesterday we have approved the refugee crisis strategy point here, but that document does not exist until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u3	Please, could you be more specific if today, where?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u4	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President. That point was included yesterday, called the Strategy for the Resolution of the Refugee Crisis, and I would ask that it be included as the second point of today's negotiations after the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u5	Thank you, and now with priority rights, the Minister applies, and then Mr Faltýnek is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u6	Good morning, dear colleagues. I must take a very hard look, through Madam President, at a few of the points that Vice-President Vildumetzová has said. She said the county didn't have information about the number of pupils. I am sorry, you have very inaccurate information, Madam Vice-President, through Madam President. I had the opportunity yesterday to discuss with all the representatives of the Association of Regions and the Ministry of Education was praised for how clear the data, how structured data was up to the last school of the Association of Regions. So I object to your claim that the County Association doesn't have such a thing. You have misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u7	Thank you, that was the Minister of Education, and with priority rights Mr. Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. And then there's another application for the meeting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u8	I will try to be - Madam President, thank you - I will try to be non-conflict and as correct as possible. I think it's pointless to put the situation in any way. If I wanted to be conflicting and if I wanted to be incorrect, I would say that the previous government's strategy to combat covid consisted in a rapid exchange of health ministers and that this is certainly not a good strategy to resolve the refugee crisis. But I don't think he belongs here. For my department, I want to say what we've done about the refugee crisis and what the captains we regularly deal with know, for the last time this week. What we did was that today there's a register of all doctors, pediatricians, practitioners, gynecologists and dentists, there's an indexing of their free capacity. Every mayor - not the captain, every mayor - knows where the nearest physician, pediatrician, dentist, gynecologist with free capacity is. The insurance company has tools to pressure the capacity to be used for Czech patients, not just for refugees. In parallel with the refugee crisis, I deal with the same thing for Czech patients. Every captain knows, there's a map they have at their disposal. We continue to cultivate this map and we have agreed with the most risky regions - Vysočina, where accessibility is very problematic, with South Bohemia insurance companies - and with other regions I will work on several pilot projects, which will not only increase availability for Ukrainian refugees, but especially for Czech patients. This information is received regularly by the authorities. In addition, we have strengthened the regions and the authorities know how to get UA points into these centres, both for general patients, adult patients and paediatric patients. So I believe that the strategy from the point of view of the Ministry of Health is quite clear, understandable, short-term and long-term, and the captains are regularly informed about it every week. And we went so far as to inform individual mayor's data boxes. Of course, I deal with, for example, the chairman of the Association, Mr. Mayor, colleague Lukl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now I'm going to make some more apologies in the meantime. Mr Roman Bělor is still apologizing for today's meeting between 9.30 and 10.30 for working reasons, Mr Tomio Okamura from 9 to 9.15 for work reasons, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala today from 13 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. That would be an apology. And now for applications to change the agenda. I'll read the order I've received so far. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek will now be the first Member, then Mr Hubert Lang, Mr Karel Rais, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková and Mrs Renáta Oulehlová. In order to know the order, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek may now propose an amendment to the approved programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to present a motion to amend the agenda, I would like to wish all the Jaroslav happy birthday in our Chamber of Deputies. [[A little applause.]] Thank you. I come up with a proposal to include a new point, which unfortunately - or rather yesterday, my colleague Margit Balaštíková tried to do in vain. I'm going to modify the name a little bit, and it's a question of solving food price increases. I would merely say that the agricultural committee across the political spectrum has adopted a resolution calling on and asking the Minister of Agriculture to address the situation, but since I have little time, I will not read it, perhaps when this point is included. We all know that sufficient food at an affordable price for Czech citizens should be our common top priority. With more expensive fuels, we can travel less, with more heat we can dress more and less drown, but unfortunately we need food at least once a day. After both parliamentary periods, we have done our utmost to make as much self-sufficiency as possible in the production of basic food in the Czech Republic. You know that this has not been easy at all, because the conditions have been very unequal since our accession to the European Union and self-sufficiency have significantly affected the trade chains that are in foreign hands and preferred imports from their parent countries where they still produce surplus food. Nevertheless, I am glad that we have managed to stop the drop thanks to the targeted support, and even with some commodities, to achieve moderate growth. At present, however, the situation has changed dramatically, the balance of supplier-customer relations has been disrupted by the prolonged pandemic of covid and a significant blow to everything has, of course, put the conflict, the war in Ukraine. [[9.20 hours]] What exactly happened? Firstly, the cost of agricultural and food production is increasing sharply. We all know that it's energy, fertilizers, pesticides, diesel, seeds, and other materials. These increases are far from being reflected in increasing sales prices on the counter. In addition, the current government systematically worsens the conditions for those farmers who produce something, and unfortunately, money shifts to the maintenance of the landscape without a condition to produce anything. What will cause these two factors? Farmers will not risk and lose, will take the advice of the current Minister of Agriculture and will ecologically manage the minimum crop yield and the minimum animal production intensity. Already today, we have noticed that about 15 percent of pig farmers have been affected by breeding, and this is unfortunately only the beginning. This was due to a terrible war to halt or reduce agricultural production in Ukraine and can be expected to be minimal exports from this country, especially in oil and cereals. This country, just for information, exported these basic commodities to around 400 million people in Europe, and above all in Africa. This is enhanced by the ban on the export of a major exporter of cereals from Russia. Furthermore, drought in the southern hemisphere has been added in the last season, and for the northern hemisphere, the beginning of the growing season is also very dry, and especially in the southern regions of Europe, lower yields can be expected. It is clear that, at current fertiliser prices, between 300 and 400 percent more expensive than normal prices will be less fertilized, and thus lower yields will also be. A shortage of cereals will cause a sharp rise in prices even in livestock production, where it will logically be written into milk, meat prices, and it can, of course, also mean that some commodities will not be at all or will be in short supply. What is our government doing for this? Unlike our western neighbors, so far, almost nothing is cheering us up, that everything is okay and that perhaps the agrobarons are just haunted. Unfortunately, it's reality. What can be done about it? At this point, we should discuss several areas. Firstly, to include agriculture and food industry in the critical infrastructure of the sucker should the price of gas and diesel be regulated. It's been talked about for a long time, but unfortunately, nothing concrete has ever happened. We should also know how much our country has at its disposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u11	Your time is up, Congressman. It's five minutes of proposed time to the item show.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u12	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová has now signed up with priority rights and Mr Hubert Lang can prepare himself. Please give priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u14	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I would like to respond to both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health. You can see that they are performing here, too, and I think that's exactly why we should approve the refugee crisis strategy point so that it's the debate and the things that are all waking up here that we have all the information. I would first of all like to say to the Minister of Education that I have in no way criticized the Ministry of Education here. I have said here what is also publicly available, for example from April 25, when Martin Kuba, President of the Association of Regions, made it clear. One map will show us how many refugees there are in individual municipalities at the moment. Unfortunately, we don't know exactly, because maybe they didn't have to report in. If you ask any governor or mayor today, few are able to tell you how many refugees there are in the village. That's what I think is all the authorities and mayors have been calling for for for weeks. I mean, if I looked at it from February 24th, we have April 26th, and we don't have the strategy here. At the same time, I would like to give the information about the information system, about the accommodation providers, when I said that the data had disappeared. The data is there, but it's not available, which is also very important, because it has to be available, because without the data, funds cannot be paid to the hosts. It is necessary to make it available because it is necessary to link it to the information system of the foreign police, which has been promised for several weeks and still is not. So you can see for yourself. The Minister of Health has spoken, the Minister of Education has spoken, and I therefore appeal again, let us put this important point in place today, for which everyone else is waiting, both citizens and mayors and captains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u15	Thank you for your contribution and, therefore, for the proposal to amend the agenda for the meeting, Mr Hubert Lang. Please, Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u16	Hello, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. I would like to add a new item to the agenda for this meeting. I would like to include this point as a second point on Friday, entitled Transformation of the current model of the Foreign Police by setting up a branch of the Foreign Police as a branch with full republical activity, i.e. the Directorate of the Services of the Foreign Police Prague and fourteen trade unions of the Foreign Police in the interior. Why do I propose this point and this name? I would like to support the speaker, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. I am a member of the Security Committee and we have received the so-called Strategy of Migration from the Government, which we have not only called for in various areas, whether it be security, whether it be health, whether it be education, in connection with the huge influx of migrants from Ukraine in connection with the war conflict. I believe that this is not a strategy, but that it is really just a study. In this so-called strategy, we don't actually have any deadlines, we don't have any prospects, we just don't have any predictions for a longer period of time. We don't know if this war conflict will end in a week, two weeks, a month, six months, but we should be - and I believe - ready to have some deadlines so that we can adapt our terms accordingly, whether economic or other. Why do I propose the transformation of the foreign police service as a whole republican force again? Cirka ten or eleven years ago, during the previous government, then the right-wing government, changed the system of the foreign police, when - I said so - we had a department with a nationwide presence, which had a circus of about 6,500 trained, trained police officers spread throughout the territory of the Czech Republic not only to protect the border then, but also to protect airports, and in particular to trade unions of foreign police in the interior, which dealt with situations in terms of visa granting and other things. If we had this model preserved, we would not have to, I believe, even here to adopt the special law of lex Ukraine - that is 65 from 2022 - when we provided our guests here in quotation marks with temporary protection visas from Ukraine. We could have followed the existing legislation that was in force at the time, and I think it would have sufficed. We could've used the foreign law, we could've used the asylum law. Today we have a problem with these guests from Ukraine. After granting a temporary protection visa, they do not stay in one place, they circulate around the Czech Republic, they travel between the Schengen countries, some even return to Ukraine, then they return to the Czech Republic. We don't have an absolute overview of these people. The marginal group of Rom people from Ukraine with double citizenship or without documents, when they arrive somewhere, live in a residential hotel, wait for a dose, and then disappear unknown where in the broad Schengen area, is a beautiful example of how we should not do it. I ask here why we had Europe, why we had Schengen space, why we had a very rigid, difficult approach before anyone could settle down with us, and so on? By Law No 65/2022 we've broken through all of this. In essence, this is partly a redislocation of a directive that Europe has never been able to agree on. [[9.30 hours]] If we were to set up this nationwide unit again, we would have a clear strategy. We should have the protection of the external Schengen border secured, we should have specialised departments spread out in each region and I dare say that if these police officers' numbers are met and separated from the existing police ranks again under a nationwide unit with nationwide competence, we would also be able to issue visas, not lex Ukraine, we would not have to take such extraordinary measures here for one year with the possibility of some extension, but we would have managed it under existing legislation. We could therefore grant any refugees, not only from Ukraine, but also in other migration crises, visas for the purpose of patience. Or we could follow the asylum law, whether that foreign or asylum law is very strict. It's just this person, when she's fleeing, yes, she's given some help, she gets somewhere to go, but then she meets some conditions that the state can lay down. By lex Ukraine in its essence, we have completely opened the door here, people running back and forth here, not complying with our laws. Even on the Security Committee, we've heard from people who are dealing with it that they don't actually have any leverage to force these people to live in some place to hang around... to report. [[Your time.]] [[Your time is up, Congressman.]] So I would like to ask if you would support the drafting of this item in the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u17	I will just point out - thank you for your contribution - that the previous speaker, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, did not actually say, even though he has it written on his application, the whole title of the item and how it supports it, what classification he wants, so it needs to be said here. And now please, with priority rights, President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, Prime Minister, government, esteemed colleagues, to begin with, before I ask for a change in the agenda, I must respond to the things that have been said here from the mouth of Vice-President Vildumetzová. I have just spoken briefly with our colleague, Mr Bureš - Mayor Ostrov, this is a town in the Karlovy Vary Region, you know that as a former governor. Each morning, he has detailed information on the number of refugees on the island cadastral. Exactly categorized: men, women, children, whether or not they are enrolled in school establishments and so on. So what you're saying here, it's just not true. I think that what we're experiencing here again after 31 minutes yesterday is just trying to delay the proper discussion of the points, which, by the way, are the points we're supposed to help solve the current situation. Minister Stanjura is sitting here patiently as he was sitting here yesterday. [[He's turning around.]] Well, I'd really like you to speed this up. In order not to prolong this, I will ask both President Schiller and President Schillerová for these two amendments on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. Well, the one that wasn't scheduled wasn't, but it's tiny. I would like to include item 108 as the first item on Friday of this week, House document 646 - Proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft final government account for 2021. That is at the request of the Chairman of the Budget Committee, President Bernard. A little thing needs to be discussed, which is why Friday is the first point of Friday's meeting. And as a second point on Friday to include originally on today's day item number 4, the House press 137 - Government bill amending Act No. 238/2021 Coll., Construction Act. So the second reading of the building bill please convert to Friday as the second point. The first point is the one I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u19	Thank you, Mr President, it is clear. And now, with another application, now two have been withdrawn, Mrs Renata Oulehlová reporting for the agenda. Is there a Member in the room? Is it? Please, madam, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I have applied with a proposal for the inclusion of the Programme Situation at Labour Offices with regard to personnel and financial security. Before I speak on this point, I would like to respond here to the President of the Excellent. We're the numbers - I'm the mayor of Sokolov, maybe my colleague from Ostrov has other information - but we don't really have the numbers. When a fugitive arrives before the war from Ukraine, he gets a visa that is bound to the address where he is currently located. But how many people do we have in the city, how they migrate across the Czech Republic, nobody knows. So that's what I'm fighting against. As mayor of the city, I really don't know the exact number or where these people are. So I will now return to the point that I want to include in the programme, and it is the situation of officials at the employment offices. Those officials are under a lot of pressure. Their number of clients grew 100% thanks to the war in Ukraine. These people work in the same staffing, often with obsolete devices, I mean computers, printers, translating from their own phones with a translator. Because most of these buildings aren't equipped with wifi, they're using their data. You can argue that they have a translator on their computer, but the second they start using the computer, the translator on their computer, they actually have to take all the clients to their protection zone. Not only that, but it's actually going to get awfully long. Officials must deal with or deal with people in the last instance in the context of the energy crisis. They solve many other tasks they never had to solve. Go ahead, if these are the authorities where they still have socially excluded localities, I wouldn't want you to see what's going on there, what arrogance our officials have been following from people who are long-term in the register of the employment office. They attack not only those officials, they attack Ukrainian mothers with children, and we can't even protect them. When the city is a little enlightened, they try to put in crime prevention assistants, but there's no money for them again, there's no money in active employment policy. So please, please, for these officials, please take care of them, add funding to them, because these people work beyond, they often work for twelve hours, they work weekends, and they're at least rated. I ask for them not only to give them a one-time reward like it was now, but to raise the tariffs so that these people are well rated. And the recommendation that came from Mr. Kalousek - throw away 30 percent and divide the money, that was really a mockery, that was the last dot. I would like to include this point on Friday 29. 4. as the third item in the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u21	Thank you. At the same time, I would really like to ask for the use of this presentation of new proposals and their brief justification, so that we can also get to the approval of the programme. President Alena Schillerová reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have to respond, because when my colleague Mrs Oulehlová, the mayor, spoke, - if that was not the case, I apologize - I noticed that the Prime Minister was shaking his head in disbelief. And I would like to comment on what has been said here. It was a follow-up - she may have scored a point, but it was also a follow-up to the President of the Excellent. I appeal with permission to our Member, but in particular to the Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, profesor Vondrák, who clearly confirms that neither the mayor nor the captains have information at the given time, how many refugees they have. The information they have is only the one where they registered, or where they received the visa of patience. [[9.40 hours]] So if I could ask the Prime Minister very politely and kindly, if he would say so, I would be very grateful to him because all our mayors, the mayors, Mr. Governor Vondrák are nodding here. And I would even like to quote here from the interview of your party colleague, Mr. Governor, whom I greatly appreciate, Mr. Governor of Kuba, the head of the Generals Association, who - I quote: "One map will show us how many refugees there are in individual municipalities at the moment. Unfortunately, we don't know exactly, because maybe they didn't have to report in. If you ask any governor or mayor today, few people are able to tell you how many refugees they have in the village." So if the Prime Minister would be so kind, I very politely ask him to comment on this, to be clear. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I am now not aware of the priority right and I am once again on the agenda of Mr Robert Králíček's meeting. As far as the content is concerned, I would like very much to ask for a recital. We're still on the agenda. Your five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u24	Hello, Madam President, dear government, colleagues. I come here with a request or a request to place a new point. I'm kind of starting to feel like a colleague of Patrik Nacher's that I come here with my two evergreens, because I'd like to put one more point in place, but the first point I'd like to place is the fight against misinformation. I would like to include him as the first item on Friday 29 April and try to convince you by my reasoning why he should be included. As you know, in the last parliamentary term, we have set up, in agreement across the political spectrum, a committee on hybrid threats, where once again we have all agreed - with one exception or one and a half exceptions - on the recommendations that we have sent from this committee both to the previous and current government, where we have defined several points that should be met or implemented to improve our fight against hybrid threats, which are an integral part of disinformation. As you have noticed, a rather sharp debate has begun in public space on the current steps of government in the fight against misinformation. Some are peculiar to my taste, some may return us a few decades ago. And I believe that this rather sensitive point deserves a debate in Parliament. It is a point that I would politely ask of the Prime Minister in particular, because these things fall directly within his or her powers or powers of the government. And I think there was a consensus on the establishment of one, I'd say, a position at the government office, which I hope will be fulfilled. There is a need for some legislative regulation, but I believe that, with our support, this adjustment would soon succeed. But in the meantime, the government has set up a government agent for the fight against misinformation, which I do not think can replace the position that we have proposed as members of the hybrid threat commission. In particular, the last communication on the web, as citizens should inform about disinformation, I think this debate should be heard here, so that we legislators, too, send out clear opinions, political opinions, perhaps personal opinions of individual political clubs towards citizens, as the fight against misinformation sees the strategy. And maybe we can agree on that, too, because, as I have already mentioned and will repeat myself, because the consensus in the last parliamentary term was really big, apart from the two political parties there was a clear consensus. And I firmly believe that, even in this parliamentary term, we should find a broader consensus on this subject, a broader political consensus, so that citizens know how we legislators feel about them. So I would ask you, if we could include this item with information from the Prime Minister, what is the government's strategy to combat misinformation and with some perspective on the next steps, if we could put the first point on Friday so that we can calm the public that our actions will not bring them back. At the same time, I will ask the President or Madam President whether I could continue with that second point or whether I should wait for your call.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u25	You go ahead, I'll put the stopwatch back on. Can you please take the second point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u26	Thank you. I will try to be more brief because this item is already on the agenda for this meeting. And here I have to start with my own criticism, because this is a point that we have not been able to approve in the last parliamentary term. And that is why I would ask politely once again if we could put the second point on Friday, April 29th, for the first one I have quoted, and it is Parliamentary press number 131, which is in the 90s, so that would be approval at first reading. It is a government bill amending Act No. 181/2014, it's the Cyber Security Act. This amendment to the Act is processing the relevant regulation of the European Union and, at the same time, follows the applicable regulation of the European Union and regulates the security of networks, electronic communications and information systems. We should have implemented this amendment by 28 June 2021. As I say, there are also criticisms in our own ranks of the former government, when we did not do so, and therefore, as I said, with my evergreen, I do not want to do anything about it - so that we will continue to approve it at first reading on Friday, April 29th. I think that even in these quivering times, we need to approve this law. This concerns, in particular, the National Cyber and Information Security Authority, which, as an internal cyber security certification body, will supervise the rules included in European systems, cyber security certification, and monitor - in particular - compliance with the obligations of manufacturers and providers of products, services or processes in the field of information and communication technologies established in the territory of our State and carrying out their conformity assessment, as well as monitoring the activities of public bodies that are conformity assessment bodies. I'm sorry, I didn't remember that sentence, I had to read it. However, I would like to ask you to do so. It's quite a key thing. I think we realize that even in the conflict now taking place in Ukraine, cyber security plays a key role. As cyberspace attacks are increasing, I would ask you to include this non-conflict press on Friday, April 29 as a second point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr President, for a very clear proposal, and now the second-to-last report is on the agenda, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Ambassador, your five minutes. And please, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'm sure I won't be needing five whole minutes, I've been talking a lot here yesterday, and I don't want to keep you. I didn't get that point last night. I told myself all about it. I really want to propose a new point called Freedom of Word in the Czech Republic. And I'm talking about two sets of topics. Unlike my colleague here, who deals with the fight against misinformation, I want to address the complete legal vacuum of prohibition of opinion and expression within the Internet. And the second circuit is criminalization, potential criminalization of opinions spread in public space. [[9.50 hours]] I think that Parliament really should do what it is intended to do to talk about socially serious issues. When I talked about it long yesterday, I also had a lot of reactions from the citizens, and I think that this topic deserves some of our time. I suggest we do it first thing on Monday. And to end up being optimistic, one of my seniors just called me this morning and said that Friday, this Friday, I'm sorry, Friday was the first point. [[Objection from the diaper on the proposed day.]] I got a call from an old man, and he told me that at today's prices for him and the bond could be 13,000 at his retirement, and that he'd keep saying what he wanted on the Internet - so I'd end up being optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u29	Ambassador, I have your proposal for a new point recorded. And now a brief application from Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, who had run out of time before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u30	Thank you. I just have one sentence to put the name of the new point on the microphone - addressing the rise in food prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-000-000.u31	Thank you, too. And so far we have come to the fact that I do not have any more applications for the agenda, so I can arrange to deal with it when my colleagues and colleagues come into the hall, with proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. So let me just sum it up. Several proposals have been put forward, we will vote on the proposals from the Member - one more time I will engage - Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, then there have been proposals for new points by Mr Faltýnek and Mr Lang, then there will be a block of proposals for a solid inclusion by Mr Výborný, then there will be a proposal for a new point by Mrs Oulehlová, Mr Králíček, and then a priority. [[There's a tap in the table.]] I'm sensing a motion to unsubscribe. I'm signing everyone off, please log in again with your I.D. cards. And we're not in the debate, or the factual comment that came up, I'm erasing. We will therefore now vote as the proposals have been put forward, namely that there have been proposals for a number of priorities and also for some new points. If by any chance I do not read something exactly, please contact any Member or Members. From the proposals, we will proceed to the first Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, namely the firm inclusion of point 110, which is called the Strategy for the Resolution of the Refugee Crisis, today as the second point after the third reading. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 166 Members and Members have been voted in favour of 77, versus 74. This solid inclusion proposal has not been approved. Furthermore, Mr Faltýnek's proposal for a new point is to address the rise in food prices. Initiating vote. Who's up for this new point? Who's against it? In the 38 vote, 169 Members voted in favour of 77, against 47. This proposal has also not been approved. We'll move on to the next one. Mr Hubert Lang has proposed a new point of Transformation of the current model of the foreign police. Once again, I am opening the vote on a new item. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 39, 171 Members voted in favour of 76, against 60. This new point has not been approved. In addition, the President of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný proposed to place point 108 firmly on Friday as the first item, House document 646, Time schedule of the State Final Account. Isn't that right? I am therefore now opening the vote on this solid inclusion as a second item on Friday. Who's in? Who's against it? [[Noise in plenary, unclear what is being voted on.]] It's a schedule for the State Final Account. In the vote number 40, 172 Members voted, 143 in favour, against 1. This proposal for a firm inclusion has been approved. Another proposal for solid inclusion on Friday as the second item is item number 4, House press 137, Building Act, also presented by President Marek Výborný. Initiating vote. Who is the second point for a fixed classification of the Building Act on Friday? Who's against it? In the vote number 41, 172 Members and Members were enrolled, for 145, against 18. This point has been adopted, it is firmly included. Next, we will vote on a new item by Mrs Renata Oulehlová The situation at the Labour Offices. If it were to be included, we will also vote for a firm classification. I am opening the vote, a new item, Mrs Renata Oulehlová, Situation at the Labour Offices. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 42, 172 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 65. This point has not been approved, so it has not been included at all. Next, Mr Králíček's item, a new point in the fight against misinformation. Once again, if it has been approved, we will vote in a firm position. Initiating vote for this new item. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 43, 172 Members voted in favour of 60, against 68. This point has not been included. And the second item by Mr Králíček - this is House Press 131, Amendment to the Cyber Security Act, item number 11 on our agenda, and he asks for a nomination for Friday 29. 4. as a second point. I am opening the vote on this proposal for a solid inclusion on Friday. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 44, 172 Members voted again, for 60, against 72. This solid inclusion proposal has not been approved. [[10.00 hours]] The last is the proposal for a new item by Mr Radek Vondráček Freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. If it has been approved, we will vote in a firm position. I've started the vote. Who's up for this new point? Who's against it? In voting number 45, 173 Members voted in favour of 80, against 45. This new point has not been approved. Which we have dealt with according to my remarks with all the voting proposals for changing the agenda, for which I thank you. And so we can now proceed according to the current agenda to the first approved item of today's meeting, and that is the point
