ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 216/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Martin Kupka, the Minister of Transport should state the proposal, but I understand that he will be represented by the Minister of Culture, whom I am asking to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the Chamber of Deputies is hereby presented for discussion with the Government's bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions for the operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of the Act on Liability Insurance for Damage and on the amendment of certain related laws, Act on Liability Insurance for the Operation of Vehicles, as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The proposed bill focuses primarily on topics which must be subject to national regulation in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, namely the approval of the technical competence of vehicles. Following the adoption of Regulation 2018/858, the draft law contains a comprehensive amendment to the legislation approving the technical competence of road and special vehicles, their systems, components and separate technical units. In doing so, the implementation of the abovementioned Regulations is linked to the earlier regulations concerning the approval of the technical competence of tractors and their trailers, interchangeable towing equipment, two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, as well as systems, components and separate technical units of such vehicles. It is proposed to designate the Ministry of Transport as the approval authority and market surveillance authorities for those vehicles, their systems, components and separate technical units, and to determine the detailed factual nature of the offences covering acts inconsistent with the individual regulations. The draft law also contains a comprehensive amendment to the legislation approving the technical competence of individually produced vehicles, where the authorisation of the production of the vehicle is completely abandoned. The approval of the technical competence of the individually manufactured vehicle will thus no longer take place in two successive stages, but only in one driving. Furthermore, the draft law enters into the legislation on the approval of imported vehicles. In particular, vehicles imported from other EU Member States are subject to this approval scheme if they do not have approval by a recognised Czech Republic and a partial amendment to the conditions for the approval of the technical competence of imported vehicles is also proposed. [[12.40 hours]] Following the adoption of Regulation 2016/1628, it is proposed, in particular, to designate the Ministry of Transport, the State Fair Administration and the Railway Authority as approval bodies for type-approval of engines and families of engines intended for installation in non-road mobile machinery, to designate the Ministry of Transport as market surveillance authority for these products and to determine the detailed factual elements of offences covering the negotiations inconsistent with this Regulation. The bill also includes changes responding to experience from application practice. This is, for example, a cancellation of the obligation to submit a registration report for applications relating to registration in the road vehicle register. There is also an extension of the period during which the result of the registration check is available in the selected procedures, from 30 days to two years. The proposal takes further steps to electronize the state administration by allowing, for example, the submission of certain applications by electronic means. This bill was discussed by the House in the past period. However, the legislative process has not been completed. Madam, honourable Members, on behalf of Minister Kupka, I would like to ask you to support the proposed bill amending the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road and the Act on Administrative Charges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u3	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to take the floor. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, who has taken on that brave responsibility for this law, my fellow Members, for starters, I would like to say that we have already discussed this press in the last parliamentary term, but it has not been able to finish. I will start now, because the press presented is primarily focused on national regulation in order to meet the obligations arising from the Czech Republic's membership in the European Union. This is the implementation of three directives, which is why it has been discussed before. However, of course this bill proposal is not a clean implementation, there are also knowledge from practice. Now to the content of the law. Main areas of adaptation: a comprehensive amendment to the legislation on the approval of the technical competence of road and special vehicles, their systems, components and separate technical units; a comprehensive amendment to the legislation on the approval of individually manufactured road vehicles; a change to the legislation on the approval of imported vehicles; new type-approval rules for engines, engine families intended for installation in non-road mobile machinery. These are implementation issues. I will elaborate on those amendments that do not concern the implementation of European Union rules. This is a cancellation of the obligation to submit a report on the registration of a vehicle for registration in the road vehicle register; requests for the registration of a change of the owner or vehicle operator in the road vehicle register; requests for the assignment of a special registration mark for the export of a vehicle to another State; the extension of the period during which the result of the registration check is available in the selected procedures, from 30 days to two years; the possibility to submit a joint application for registration of a change to the owner or operator of the vehicle by separate submission of the original and new owner of the vehicle. Here I would stop by, it's quite a significant change in favour of the citizens. The point is that at present both the seller and the buyer must come to the office at the same time to make a change in the vehicle register. Now in this proposal, it is done in such a way that, of course, this change can only be made at one office, when it is sufficient to select this office and deliver the applications separately as they can. It is also a possibility to submit an application by electronic means. However, let us be aware that electronization is important, but picking up a technical license will always have to be at the appropriate registration point. It is also a possibility to reserve a registration mark for a period of one month. The municipal authority of the municipality shall inform the applicant of the registration mark to be assigned to the specific vehicle if it requests registration in the road vehicle register within that period. As a result, carriers will be able to establish the permits needed for their activities in advance, i.e. before the vehicle is registered in the road vehicle register, and will be able to use the vehicle fully immediately after its acquisition or registration in the road vehicle register. A new registration mark shall be assigned to the vehicle in the event of termination of the decommissioning of the vehicle which lasted more than three years. Municipal authorities of municipalities with extended scope will be allowed to shred after three years of disabling the vehicle from operating the registration plate and will not have to store it for an unlimited period of time. However, if the vehicle owner wishes to keep the original registration plate, he will be able to request it. Previously, the name of the deposit looked like it was a really large room, where an immense number of registration marks were stored, which will simply not have to hide for so long, because some vehicles are still in the so-called temporary decommissioning regime for decades.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u5	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you, and I'm going to ask my colleagues... I understand she's looking forward to lunch, but I'm still asking her to keep her voice down so she can finish her news report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u6	Thank you. Conditions for the operation of vehicles not subject to the approval of their technical competence. These vehicles will only be able to operate on the road if they meet the technical requirements for road safety. On this point, I would like to say that the Minister has already spoken about this in his speech. This concerns, for example, bicycles, scooters, film-coated trolleys and the like. The effectiveness of the law is proposed on the first day of the third calendar month following the publication of the law, taking into account the need to establish an appropriate time-limit for addressees of legal regulation so that they can adapt to the new rules. The Ministry has justified this urgent interest in this government proposal in order to proceed differently than usual, that is, with effect to 1. 7. or 1. 1. with the fact that this is an implementation that should have already been implemented. Nevertheless, we must leave some space for everyone to prepare for the new rules, so that is why this proposal deviates from the standard. The Government amendment also envisages the amendment of Decree No. 341/2014 Coll., on the approval of technical competence and on technical conditions for the operation of vehicles on roads, as amended, and Decree 343/2014 Coll., on the registration of vehicles, as amended. So much for the intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u7	Yes, thank you for the comprehensive intelligence report, Madame. I am now opening a general debate. Mr kolovratník is reporting for a general debate, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u8	I am terribly sorry, Mr President, because of the preparation of the documents, I did not sign up in writing, so thank you for recording my application. I would like to comment here not on the law as a whole, but on one matter, one detail which I see as critical, problematic and which we will definitely talk about on the Economic Committee - this is the topic of validity of registration inspections or registration checks. [[12.50 hours]] I'm saying this because, or I'm telling you, we had this law here in the last parliamentary term, and I'm absolutely impartial here, whether from the point of view of the opposition or the coalition, I'm saying it's a shame I'm sad that it didn't work out. We've already really... The job was done on him... The rapporteur nods because she was in the epicenter of events and negotiations with me. The Minister, then as a fellow Member, may not have been his subject, but you may remember the debates. We actually ended up just outside the gates, somewhere after the second reading, if I'm right, and unfortunately it wasn't possible to discuss it by the end of the term. Now we're getting back to it. Very briefly, what was said by both the petitioner and the rapporteur is that, in general terms, the amendment defines, regulates the conditions for registration, registration of vehicles, technical types of vehicles, the operation of STK and emission controls and so on. It is actually simple - or not simple, but basic - implementation of the new legislative conditions and deadlines of the European Union, of European law into our legislation. The point is that the European Union - we already have a deadline for implementation, I'm sorry, I don't have exactly when it is or when it was, maybe it was said in previous speeches. The point is that the European Union has carried out an overall revision of the legislation on the approval of technical competence of vehicles and components and separate technical units, whether it is type-approval of individually manufactured vehicles or the like, and so everything has to be revised, in particular in Part Three, Title Four of the Act. What I see as positive in the bill: he was not almost fundamentally redesigned from the original one prepared by the previous government. There are also some measures that generally reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and residents. I think this is something we always agree on here in the House across the political spectrum. Illustratively, it is already the above cancellation of the authorisation of the production of individually produced vehicles, especially the possibility of reservation of the registration mark for a period of one month. It is also a simplification of the process of registering the change of the owner or operator of the vehicle in the road vehicle register by allowing separate submission of a joint application, as well as allowing electronic submission or cancellation of the obligation of certain other obligations. In preparing this speech, I have also dusted off my news report and the report of the guarantor from the past period, and I have already said so, and I am saying this here and today that I see the amendment of the law as a whole as practical and in many ways beneficial to the motorist public. As I said a moment ago, simplifying processes and so on, so even here our positions will be either recommending or positive, we will support this law. Now, the gros I announced at the beginning of my performance. I have one problematic point for myself, and that is what I will want - I am saying this here publicly, I am calling on plenary, I will say it also on the Economic Committee - that is what I will want to do. It is an amendment point relating to registration checks. In the text, in the government bill as submitted by the petitioner, the Ministry of Transport suggests that it will not have to be new to the request for technical control as we all know it - I think we are all motorists, drivers, owners and vehicle operators - that there will be no need to attach a registering inspection protocol on the ground, I quote, "because the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope has access to it through the technical inspection information system." So the municipal authority can reach into the system itself. In the case of a procedure for registration of a change in the owner or operator of the vehicle, the condition that the vehicle must undergo the registration check must be added, or that, according to the check, the actual state of the vehicle and its identification data are in accordance with the documents on that vehicle, i.e. those vehicle identifiers. Now this is essential: it is now established that registration checks must not be carried out more than two years before the application is lodged. It has so far been established that the protocol must not be more than 30 days old. When I simplify, added and underlined, there is a significant extension of the period during which the result of the registration check is usable. Today it was no more than 30 days, after each change it would have to be new. Now it's extended for up to two years. I said it last year, and I say it today, and I repeat, I see it as a relatively large increase in corruption and criminal risk. The reason is simple, the argument is simple. Try to imagine - and now, please, no one is offended - what we probably don't know from our social bubble, maybe we don't know from our social bubble, but try to imagine the various oversales and sales of vehicles in bazaars, on an ad among, say, people socially or economically weaker, who really can afford some ordinary older vehicle. They're buying it from some private person they don't even know. This vehicle can change its owner twice, three times, it can pass a technical but does not pass a registration check. The identifier, technical features of the vehicle, vehicle VIN code, etc. will not be checked. Simply, we are actually reducing consumer protection, protecting citizens. Indeed, there is a real risk, and it is proven by statistics that are now not worth reading or showing here in plenary, it will be the topic of expert debate on the Economic Committee that crime, possible abuse really can be in this case. It was already historically quite large in one-track vehicles and others. The logic is actually simple: if the vehicle is subject to registration, it is checked, let's say it is checked by speedometer, VIN code and others, then we are in a clean legal environment. In the past period, we finally reached a compromise after the debates on the Economic Committee. We agreed that we would make 30 days a half-time period, about a year, that it might also be a test or an attempt to see if this compromise solution would work in the field, work and eventually go back to it in the future. So here I will turn again to my colleague, the chair of the Transport Sub-Committee, we will address the representatives of practice, the experts, what the situation looks like today, and if there is a will, at least I will try again to find your support for the compromise solution or compromise position and try to find the will to extend checks for at least one year, so that, as I said, for the protection of citizens, consumers can guarantee that they know what they are buying, that they are not in some kind of trouble. I'm looking at the time, I don't want to waste any time, I'm right to make it vote and move on, so I'll do it. Perhaps the last sentence. I also have complaints from citizens who really have a car, and they get tickets, and so on in the sense that the car is still written on someone else. I have the materials at my disposal so you don't think it's some kind of theoretical problem. It's really practical, and I believe we'll find a match. I keep my promise, I quit my act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u9	Thank you for your attention, too. The President of Okamura shall apply with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have learned that the government coalition has once again canceled the opposition window today. That's incredible arrogance. Citizens are plagued by the price increase, you do not offer or offer any solutions to citizens and you will cover up the opposition proposals that the solution to the price increase offers again. [[13.00 hours]] I think it's for immediate demise, because millions of citizens are desperate for your government to get more expensive, they don't have money, and you have it here - that's how Petr Fiala's government behaves. It's really disgusting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u11	So it wasn't really about the amendment to the Road Act, but I'm asking, is there anyone else involved in the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I have not noted the proposal for a return, nor for a refusal, so we will consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I forgot, I'm gonna ask you just in case, isn't there an interest in the final words? That's great. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 50, 141 Members voted in favour of 120, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? This is not the case, so we will not vote. Since there has not been a proposal in the general debate to shorten or extend the deadline, I conclude the discussion of this point number 17. We have 12.59, we have a break at 1:00. We'll meet again at 2:30 p.m. when we continue with paragraph 143, oral questioning, and I wish you a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the next item on today's agenda is oral interpelations, which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the government. Before we start, I'd like to read my apologies. Ivan Bartoš, all day - foreign trip, Martin Baxa from 18:00 - working reasons, Mikuláš Bek, all day - working reasons, Pavel Blažek from 16.15 - working reasons, Jana Černochová until 13:00 - working reasons, Petr Gazdík from 9 to 16 and from 18 - working reasons, Anna Hubáčková, whole meeting day - foreign trip, Marian Jurečka, whole meeting day - working reasons, Martin Kupka, whole meeting day - foreign travel, Helena Langšádlová from 12 to 15 hours - working reasons, Jan Lipavský, whole meeting day - foreign trip, Zdeněk Nekula, whole working day - working reasons, Vít Rakušan, whole meeting day - foreign trip, Jozef Síkela, whole day - medical reasons, Michal Šalomoun, whole day - working reasons, Vlastimil Válek from 13 hours - working reasons. I also have an apology here for Mr Jiří Strýček, from 14:30 to 18:00, due to a doctor's visit. Then Jan Volný apologizes, today between 18:00 and midnight for work reasons, and the last apology is from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons, namely Mr Aleš Dufek. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, between 14.30 and 16.00 and to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. Now, before we begin, I have an agreement here that the President of the KDU-ČSL, Mr Marek Výborný, will now speak with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u13	Madam Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, just one sentence. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that, on the basis of the agreement between the President of the ANO Group and the Presidents of the five coalition MPs, five coalition parties, today's meeting would be concluded at 18 o'clock by the end of oral interventions on members of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-006-017.u14	I also thank you, Mr President, and so we are now beginning with oral interpelations to the Prime Minister.
