ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first and ask you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I'll check you all out first, I'll ask you to come forward again. And so far, I am noted that today, with the replacement card number 46, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan will vote. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 67 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday 27 June 2022. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Tom Philipp. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of determining these two verifiers? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 1, registered by 131 Members and Members, for proposal 130, against none. I note that we have designated Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tom Philipp as verifiers of the 30th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On the whole day, on the Andrea Babišová, on the whole day, on the Jaroslav dayFaltýnek on the Pokorná Jermanová, Oulehlová the whole day, on the whole day, on the Michael Rataj, on the grounds of health, on the Bělica day for family Vondrák, on the Bžoch Pivoňka, on the whole day of work, on the whole Jaroslav of work, on the whole day for work, on the Pavel Růžička for work, on the whole day for foreign Ivana, on the whole day for family Jaroslava, on the Pavla day for family Hana, on the Hubert Lang for medical Milan, on Feranec Bělor Lochman of Ondřej, on the whole day of work, on the day of work, on the Jan Bureš of work, on the day of work, on the whole Zborovský for Miroslav of Flek, on the day of work, on the day of work, on the day of work, on the Milan of work, on the Martin day Naiclerová Kolovratník of work, on the whole Hájek for Marek of workKlára on Kocmanová Horák, on the Haas day for Ženíšek of work, on the Pavla day for Volný of work, on the whole of work, on the Roman Barbora for Urbanová of work, on the other Kobza, on the whole Hendrych. The following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Vladimír Balaš all day of the meeting for working reasons, Martin Baxa from 13.30 for working reasons, MikuláMikuláš Bek all day of the meeting for working reasons, Pavel Blažek all day of the meeting for working reasons, Jana Černochová all day of the meeting for working reasons, Marian Jurečka whole day for working reasons, Jan Lipavskýý until 13.30 for working reasons, Zdeněk Nekula until 14.30 for working reasons, Vít Rakušan from 18 hours for working reasons, Michal Šalomoun all day of the meeting for personal reasons. [[Short silence.]] I apologize for the slight delay, but I needed to clear up my priority rights. We will therefore now proceed to the establishment of the 30th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. And I recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose any amendment or addition of the agenda. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I want to ask if you want to speak at this moment under the priority rights, because otherwise I would have put a vote on the agenda. Now, with priority rights, I have been informed that President Andrej Babiš will be the first to speak. [[There's noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask you, if you want to discuss, to bring your discussions into the foyer so that we understand what the speakers here will say. And please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u2	Hello, Mr President, honourable Members. We called this meeting because we think there's no way there's an organized crime in the government. And we know, of course, that this meeting will not be approved, which is why, of course, we only have a limited chance of speaking here. In my opinion, STAN is indeed a party to organized crime. Everyone is talking about Mr. Hlubučka, who robbed the Prague Transport Company, like Rittig for Nečas, but this is one of many cases. The mayors and independents have corruption in their genes. All you have to do is look at the cases that their people were involved in. The first trouble broke on them after the elections, when hundreds of thousands of payments started coming into their account, which sent suspicious companies that control one and the same people, or the companies that are led by companies from Cyprus, or in the past Cyprus companies founded them. That's how they sent them over 3 million crowns, and when it came out, the starosta quickly returned the money and pretended everything was okay. But this is just the tip of the iceberg. Of course, the biggest crook is Stanislav Polčák, the Euro MP and the grey Eminence of the starosta. The person who is closest to the people around the Mobman Radovan Krejčíř, namely Michal Redl, who is now in custody in the Hlubukek case. Polčák wanted a million-dollar extortion for influencing the creation of a law on compensation of municipalities in the case of Vrbětice. Yes, the money our government approved, so he wanted CZK 2.9 million for 62 hours of work, which means CZK 46,700 an hour. And when it came out, he generously gave up the money, and the existing coalition always gave it up as an example of how amazing they are and how they respect it, and that's the change. But this gentleman's got a lot more on his mind. All you have to do is remember the case of European Democrats' SNK money, which mysteriously lost money for the elections Mr Polčák was guarding for them. Then there are also suspicious purchases of land in Klánovice, for which he was investigated by the police. None of STAN's leadership did mind, so Polčák could have been in the narrowest leadership for many years, and now he's receiving hundreds of thousands of wages in Brussels as a reward. That's how all of STAN works - corruption, mob contacts, clientelism. And the corrupters don't get rid of them, but they reward them. And as I said more times, 5K gave birth to 3K: corruption, conspiracy, and cocaine. And then there's Liberec's captain, Martin Půta. He's on trial for accepting bribery in a corruption case worth almost 100 million. The police have wiretaps on which the Půta advises the accused managers how best to get the money out of the ROP Northeast. Somewhere else, his associates are talking about the fact that he will be taken care of by the Půta, that he will not be owed anything, and that even the 1st for the Půta is promised, and they call him the Most vysoký. Moreover, the Liberec Governor has secretly had his political competition watched. These, of course, are mafia practices. And that's the kind of person the five-calice wants to nominate for the ČEZ Supervisory Board. That, of course, is the promised change. And then we have Mr. Gazdík's former Education Minister. A man who looks like a Moravian simpleton, but it snapped at him that he went on vacation with people from the Krejčíř to Austria and wrote with them through encrypted apps. And when the press caught him lying, he said it wasn't a vacation, it was just a long weekend. The man who made a career with Mr. Kalousek, but then, when Mr. Kalousek was no longer popular, he was at KDU, and now, of course, for the last time, STAN. He cheated on the pirát and got himself circled, and it turned out the way it did. In addition, Mr. Gazdík, a member of the government, pushed police investigators in the Bečvo case. He didn't like the fact that they were acting impartially. By the way, I don't know if you've noticed it's that big of a deal. Mr. Home Secretary pointed to the video that 12. 9. is a trial on the stork's nest, so what is it? That's pressure on Czech justice, that's pressure on independent Czech justice, that's how he explained to the police president that he shouldn't be there anymore. So that's how this organized crime acts. And when Mr. Gazdík resigned, it was great fame, change, the whole five-calice was thrilled with the example. So next up, we have an MP for pan Bernard's STAN. His name appeared, for example, in the case of influencing public procurement in Ostrava. Bernard was in contact with lobbyist Martin Dědic, who was given eight years in prison for handling public contracts. Police, by the way, also dealt with a contract years ago in which Mr. Bernard was involved as head of the Škoda of Pilsen. This was a case surrounding the construction of the depot in the area of Škoda Transportation. 160 million crowns left the contract, but the investigation was lost. So the starosta's résumé is fine because he was accepted into the ranks before the election. And then there's Mr. STAN and Home Secretary Vít Rakušan. A guy who apparently didn't know anything about STAN's corruption, even though most of the media wrote about it months ago. And he looks like Mr. čistý, but of course he's made of the same dough as Mr. Hlubuček, Polčák or Gazdík. All you have to do is see how it worked in Cologne. When he was mayor, STAN received a donation of CZK 100,000 from the Cypriot company Geosan Development. Lukáš Sedlatý from the law firm Brož, Sedlatý, was the director of the parent Cyprus tax box, which was connected with the machinations in the Prague Transport Company and Ivo Rittig. What a coincidence! Again STAN and again Prague Transport Company. In addition, he hired people who were close to him for his care in Cologne without a tender. One lawyer represented them when he caused a car accident, the other defending Rakušan in the case of lying leaflets. So that's the clientelism. He was also punished by the Office for the Protection of Competition for the award of contracts without a tender. And then, of course, it's no longer surprising that Kolín was working with a man who was in the formation of an unrenowned consulate of the separatist Donetsk Republic in Ostrava. So much for Mr. Rakušan's success as mayor. And what did Mr. Rakušan do as soon as he joined the government as Minister of the Interior? Yes, you're guessing right: he pushed the police president to resign so someone else could be there. And he did that before he became Minister. And right after that, a reorganization of the National Headquarters against organized crime is announced, a department that is currently investigating the STAN people and has them in custody. So if anyone else thinks that Mr. Rakušan should remain Minister of the Interior, I don't know what to say. So STAN is a mafia that was so founded, it's Mr. Redl's project, Mr. Gazdík and Mr. Polčák assisted in the creation, that's their project. And gradually, when there was nothing to deal with in the Zlín Region, they exported it to Prague. So, of course, we asked the Prime Minister to do something about it, but the Prime Minister said everything was fine. Of course, if our movement had a scandal like this, we'd have a yellow belt on Czech television from morning to evening. But it was extremely interesting to find out how the Reporters, who had about 130 shows since 2017, of which half of the shows were about Babiš and Agrofert, of course, negatively, so it is very interesting when the former employee of the Reporters, Mrs Markéta Dobiášová, who, of course, is not our supporter, talks about how he manipulates himself on the show, how Mr Wollner refused to actually make a report about it. [[10.20 hours]] Mrs. Dobiášová says: Marek Wollner, colleagues, for what reason hasn't the editors of Czech Television published information on Hlubukek's cases for almost three years? We don't feel the same way about that. The pressures of the organized group around Hlubuček, developers and unfortunately also former journalists in the service of STAN - journalists in the service of STAN - were huge on Czech television. And I've also invested and pointed to the link between interest groups. Potential of case in Lysolaje in conjunction with other business of urban lucrative land under baton Hlubčka a spol. It was big. And there, as far as I know, on Facebook Mr. Šlachta talks about the damage of about 322 million. Not only Lysolaje, but also the circumstances of the sale of land at the metro station Palmovka in Holešovice. My colleague . Paclíková and I spread everything. They were gradually responsible for publication precisely because it was an extensive lobbyist group linked to high policy. Therefore, so that my journalistic work could not be questioned in the future, I handed over the script to M Wollner before I left the Czech TV. He left by email on 28 November 2019 at 22.58 pm. I'm sure he'd be happy to provide it for you. To the case of carrying out lucrative urban land in Lysolaje Hlubuček, their suspicious sale without a selection procedure to a pre-selected developer, everything in the script stood and stood. It also describes the tricks that the land was sold using the opinion of the infamous Equita expert institute, which should not have been used in the state administration to sell the land at all. They were, too, in the script are also the pressures that Petr Hlubuček and his people practiced on us in the Czech Republic. I don't know if Mr. Wollner read the script. Reports were usually approved in the editing room. But if he did, and the script didn't seem good to him, there was nothing stopping him from being a dramaturgist, editor-in-chief, from processing the information otherwise he himself or another reporter. All the recorded materials, hidden recordings and information, including the script, are the property of Czech Television. So I would like to call on the Czech Television, which is public and independent... I mean that ironically, of course, because it is not independent, and everyone knows that Czech Television has won the current five-police election. She won. Those reports, their manipulation, and in the final debates before the election. I wrote to M Wollner a few months after I left in mutual communication, asking him to make the case, that it's too bad I'd be in her drawer if I could help, I'd be watching. He said it didn't work. It didn't go that way. Stopping the investigation into different cases is entirely within the competence of the editor-in-chief. When this came about on Twitter, all those moralists and some of the people Bakala yelled at when they were busy writing about CEZ have the audacity to write on Twitter as Mr. Wollner is the total anti-Babish, and I repeat, half of the reports have always been against Babiš and Agrofert, invented, dirty lies - Mr. Wollner here is silent. That's morale. That's a moral example, Mr. Wollner! So what does Mrs. Dobiášová say? I confess, I'm surprised the reporters didn't use long-term proven facts and information even after the media arrest of Hlubuček and his associates. The kauza of Lysolaj was published in this context as the first editors of the News. It's not up to me to assess why the reportér at least let the case of Lysolai take the competition. I'm pretty clear from the start. It was a case that pointed to a link between developers and politicians, a way of dealing with public property. I haven't stopped watching her, and for the last six months, she's been overseeing how she's been handled by students in journalism at Charles University. I think they did great, and they posted it a few days ago on InFact. Well, I hope nothing happens to the editor. Because this mob that's been running since the revolution, this political cartel, is defending nothing. Because it's huge billions. Of course, how does the media work? I had to have fun last night when Bakalův's label said that the Prime Minister was amazing in Strasbourg and that political scientist Sokol was expressing himself there. You know, they always get on that TV and pretend to be independent. Do you know who political scientist Sokol is? This is Mr. Jiří Pospíšil's assistant. Well, Mr. Jiří Pospíšil is who? Mr. Jiří Pospíšil, MEP - he was in ODS, now he's in TOP 09 - is the product of godfather Jurečka from Plzeň. Now we've learned that he's actually part of the Hlubukek case. That Redl split it in half. So half STAN, half TOP 09. So here's the deal. Organized crime of STAN. The movement was not only based on stealing public funds, but, of course, still exploits its name. It would be good - and I am surprised that the mayors, the real mayors, who are in charge of the lives of the citizens of the communities, will not resist it. So, yes, we went back to the '90s, back to the beginning. The Prime Minister says - he doesn't actually say anything. Our problem before the election was that people have short memories. And of course, it doesn't even remind anyone of what's happened here since the revolution. We can remember that. Since ODS - scandal Bács, Sinha, black account in Switzerland, sponsorship gift, Gripena 2,9 billion, Bamber affair, ROP Northwest, Kusnierz, OKD, IPB - there the Czech beer, which the President now wants to sell to someone. Those cases - CME 10 billion away, Internet to schools... I can read here for a long time when banks, light fuel oils, secret financing of ODS, Komerční banka, were shutting down all banks. Then the CSSD sold them for a kiss. Privatization of Telecom, Harvard funds, Tuscan affair, Řebíček as he built highways for 500 million, Langer, Dalík. Topolánek was doing a great job and he was in debt and someone bought it for him before he became a politician. Converters, radar in Brdech, CASA, gambling lobby, amnesty, Opencard, ROP Northwest, ProMoPro, H-System, Union Bank, Motoinvest, Agrobanka. Everyone forgot about that. Everyone forgot about that before the election. So now it reminds them. So I hope all five-caliber voters are happy that they're okay. The situation is that almost nothing belongs to us in the Czech Republic after the coupon privatisation and privatisations. So all this talk about energy independence... Yes, it's all gone. The refineries are Polish, the gas distribution is Hungarian, the pumps are Polish, Hungarian, Austrian, and CEZ also privatized. Now it is interesting that the French Government has announced a mandatory buy-out of EDF shares. So, basically, this government prepared the land before I founded the anti-corruption movement, where we were really trying to clear the political scene from the corruption. We went back there, and unfortunately, we're back where we didn't want to be. Pirates look like they're anti-corruption. Well, I'd just like to remind you how Mr. Michaela Krausová' girlfriend met with the convicted manager of JCDecaux and handed him the Pirate Party ad offers. So it's forgotten. IT orders and so on. So we're back where we didn't want to be. Corruption, proselytizing your party colleagues. [[10.30 hours]] We know you won't give us any room, of course. And the Czech TV that won you the election doesn't even carry what's happening in the Chamber of Deputies anymore, so that people don't hear what the opposition says. And we're speaking very specifically to the point. So we'll point it out, I think people can see what's going on. The Presidency that we have been preparing for for three years. We had a new beautiful garden renovated at the Office of the Government, a new terminal at the airport, a new cabinet meeting room, a new space for pro-government (?) media and a new canteen. Well, we've prepared it all. Well, what's going on is a complete disaster. Hubáčková - total fiasco. She's agreed to the end of the combustion engines. More expensive will be housing, more expensive will be car traffic and other things. 50 MEPs came to the Prime Minister's speech, 20 of which were from the Czech Republic, so I guess that's what it looks like. And the Prime Minister can't hear it. He can't hear it, and he doesn't mind that the STAN movement, organized crime, is in government, is in government, and, of course, the only arguments he makes are always an attack on the movement and on Babiš. But I don't think people are stupid. And even though the media is recording and winning you the election, and those oligarchs need a weak prime minister, they need parties that don't have money and don't have the media to manipulate them, so people aren't stupid and they see it. And the day will come when they'll count it for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u3	President Tomio Okamura is next in favour, and President Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the SPD's signatures, an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened today to discuss the organised crime of the STAN movement. The cases of the government movement STAN Vít Austrian completely deviate from the standard of the usual political-criminal case. It's not an individual's fault, but according to the police, it's an organized crime. It is a power center that has been dealing with public procurement and which has been robbing public money in large numbers. And it has already come to light that STAN politicians have been using hard drugs, specifically cocaine, and their parties have been doing business with drugs. Common citizens are forbidden to drive vehicles under the influence of drugs and alcohol. It really doesn't feel normal for someone to run the capital of Prague under the influence of hard drugs, just like the STAN movement does. Government TOP 09, ODS and Pirates are also involved in the criminal corruption scandal of the STAN movement. The Dosimeter case continues every day by revealing new and new information. Gradually it turns out that leading politicians from TOP 09 were also involved in an organized gang that carried out money from Prague's city companies. The link to MEP Jiří Pospíšil has been revealed. From the money of the family head of the mob group of the accused and already closely prosecuted entrepreneur Michal Redl was also funded by the ODS in the past. In addition, the pirates wanted to nominate Martin Sankot, manager of the National Development Bank's Supervisory Board, who met in a secret conspiracy apartment with a closely prosecuted lobbyist and head of this criminal mafia under...under... under the organization of the STAN movement Michal Redl. It was also revealed that this criminal group had cover on Czech television, which all citizens pay for. According to the statements of its editors, information about the criminal group around Prague's Councilman Hlubuček from the STAN movement has been available on Czech TV since 2019, but the editor-in-chief of the Czech News Agency Marek Wollner was to prevent the broadcast of these reports. This information was published by then reporter of Czech Television Markéta Dobiášová, who was preparing this report. The materials from this report are still in the property of Czech TV and are stored on Czech TV, but Wollner as editor-in-chief prevents the broadcast. By the way, here I would like to point out that Marek Wollner is the editor of three programmes: 168 hours, and it is the Czech Newsroom ČT24. So it's just these three programs that this guy controls in this way. In our opinion, Wollner should end up on TV for a minute because he's covering up organized crime. But nothing happens and the hand washes the hand. I'm sure it'd be interesting if the police investigated this moment, too, because there's a rumor that Wollner probably thought he'd stopped the transmission of this information. But when it comes to anything else, it's just... It takes several weeks for reporters to create a story, as the Czech Television editors say. And even after two years, there was no report after three years. Each day, new appalling information about organized crime, the Mafia and corruption in the government movement STAN Vít Austrian. Pavel Kos' businessman, who is already in custody, wanted to make STAN a key man for the election campaign in 2016. The Kos was already 19 years old. 2. 2016, six years ago, Vice-President of the STAN movement and MEP Stanislav Polčák presented at the meeting of the Prague Regional Committee of the STAN movement as a new person responsible for raising money, who is said to be primarily helping to raise money for the STAN campaign of the Central Bohemia Region, and who is said to be available to the STAN Regional Committee as an advisor for financial planning of the campaign, police officers write in the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution of the Hlubučkův and Redlův group. Otherwise, the editor-in-chief, Marek Wollner, from Czech Television. This is where we can see exactly who he's got his hands on. He is a man who fundamentally hates the SPD movement and fundamentally, fundamentally goes to the hands of the government parties to the current government coalition. And there's clear evidence for that. Clear proof. This really has nothing to do with the balance of Czech Television. And such a person should go away immediately, because to cover organized crime and prevent the broadcast of an organized crime report, it is really absolutely incredible what happens behind this person on Czech TV. Another defendant, Pavel Dovhomilja, says that MEP Jiří Pospíšil, together with Petr Hlubuček of the STAN movement - Petr Hlubuček, one of the highest-ranking politicians of the STAN movement, was the deputy mayor of Prague - they stood, these two people, Jiří Pospíšil of the TOP 09, MEP and former Minister of Justice, and Petr Hlubuček of the STAN movement, stood at the very birth of the organized criminal group, says the accused Pavel Dovhomilja. Witnesses describe the meetings of Jiří Pospíšil with the head of this organized criminal group, apparently the head of this organized criminal group, Michal Redl, as well as their joint vacation in Italy. Jiří Fremr, an advisor to MEP Jiří Pospíšil, has already resigned from his post due to contacts with the arresting officer Michal Redl. For the same reason, Petr Gazdík of the STAN movement and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Prague Transport Company, deputy mayor of Prague 9 Marek Doležal of the TOP 09 had to resign to his post as Minister of Education. So we can see that organized crime, the octopus tentacles are interlaced through some government parties, or through most government sides of the five-caliber government. The statement by former elite police investigator Karel Tichý shows that the leadership of the STAN movement was warned many years ago by Redl, who was the right hand of the mobster Radovan Krejčíř. Detective Tichý about it for news server News.cz He literally said - quote: "Five years ago, I went to the then president of STAN Petr Gazdík and asked him if he was crazy that he and Redla were communicating as a movement. " End of quote from an elite police investigator. [[10.40 hours]] Of course, there was no response from the STAN movement and, on the contrary, they continued to cooperate. After all, Stanislav Polčák recommended the cooperation and this is the MEP and Vice-President of the STAN movement. And here I have to point out that they're joking, Petr Gazdík and Stanislav Polčák. Here, government officials and Vít Rakušan present as a priority that Stanislav Polčák resigned from the unpaid post of Vice-President of the STAN movement. After all, the golden egg is the mandate of the MEP. He should resign for that. Similarly, Petr Gazdík should resign from the mandate of a Member if you want to draw some political responsibility. I'm not ordering you to do this, it's your business, but if you want to take responsibility, that would be the responsibility to the citizens, the real responsibility. But the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement did not invite any of his colleagues to do so. And other organised crime practices are coming to light in the government's STAN Vít Austrian. The group around the already arrested Deputy Mayor of Prague Petr Hlubuček from STAN used encrypted phones to handle orders of the Prague Transport Company and receive bribes. One such was held by the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík of the STAN movement and communicated through him with the head of the group, already arrested and accused entrepreneur Michal Redl. Moreover, Gazdík and Euro MP STAN Polčák, who also worked with Redla for a long time, hide and do not want to explain to them who paid their encrypted phones. Minister Gazdík resigned from his post as Minister on 30 June because of his connection to Redl. But why does he remain a Member, and why does Polčák remain a MEP? President STAN, as I have already said, has not yet called on Vít Rakušan to resign the mandate of Mr.Petr Gazdík and Mr. Stanislav Polčák, which also covers their actions directly. It should also lay down the mandate of MEP Jiří Pospíšil, but also the call from the Chair of the TOP 09 by Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who has repeatedly said that there is a presumption of guilt for politicians from the point of view of the TOP 09, so we did not notice any such challenge. So the hand washes again. Well, what about the pirát? I mentioned that the pirát themselves tried to put a man directly in charge of the state bank who was meeting in a conspiracy apartment with these people associated with organized crime, but of course the other huge error is that Prague's Mayor Hřib of the pirát completely failed in the management of the city, as organized crime is happening for its leadership. And either he didn't notice, or he knew about it and tolerated it. There's only two options, but they're both completely wrong. How can the pirát even run a city if they don't see organized crime and theft of millions of public money at hand? That's an incredible thing to do. And this is where the SPD law is right here, so that politicians have a direct material responsibility. Because when someone is a mayor and doesn't have the ability to run the city, Mayor Hřib of the pirát, and without notice, he has a group of organized crime with his closest associates, where people who sit with him on the Prague Council are part of organized crime, and he doesn't see it or want to see it, so he is, of course, an accomplice to the damage and this case. So we are witnessing systematic widespread corruption. The approach of Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS is morally totally unacceptable in this context, who two weeks ago, after consulting the Presidents of all five government coalition parties, said that he did not see any reason to reconstruct the government. ODS, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09 openly cover organised crime and corruption in the STAN movement and do not view criminal acts as an obstacle to participation in government. And most importantly, where is Prime Minister Fiala? We still see him abroad and, for example, this week at a conference in Lugano, Switzerland, we heard his statement. He does not devote himself to the Czech Republic and our citizens at all. Petr Fiala's government wants to give billions of our money to rebuild Ukraine instead of helping our citizens get more expensive. On Monday, in Lugano, Prime Minister Fiala, instead of solving the problems of Czech citizens and organized crime in his government, says in Lugano that priority number one - the Czech Prime Minister says that priority number one is for him the support of Ukraine, its postwar renewal. Prime Minister Fiala says we must persevere in the supply of weapons and money for routine operations. Let us admit that a substantial part of Ukraine's reconstruction will lie on the shoulders of European states, the European Union itself. That's natural, we have to show leadership. This is what Prime Minister Fiala is talking about Monday at a conference in Lugano. And then Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Šmyhal Šmyhal there, so that you would know how much the Czech Republic, what it is to participate in, according to Prime Minister Fiala, instead of dealing with the price increase. So the Ukrainian Prime Minister, who also attended the conference, said that $750 billion will be needed for the reconstruction of Ukraine, i.e. in the amount of CZK 17.8 trillion, and the Czech Republic is to participate in this with our money, or the European Union wants to take another loan. This means that the Czech Republic will guarantee it again. And I ask, why does the Fialův Government and Prime Minister Fiala have a major priority in a foreign country, which is not even a member of the European Union, to restore a foreign country? But millions of our citizens are in financial trouble. We have a 40 percent increase in new executions, over a million people living below the poverty line and falling into the existential problems of others and others, and Prime Minister Fiala is talking this week about giving Czech billions to rebuild Ukraine. And this has yet to be an incredible embarrassment of the Czech Republic, because, as we know, the Ukrainian Prime Minister has assigned us, the Czech Republic, the restoration of the Luhan region under Russian control, and Prime Minister Fiala is still here to be able to participate in this by Czech companies. How do you think? That's all the nonsense the Prime Minister is talking about. But most of all, I wanted to say, put on a bowl of scales what the Prime Minister here is dealing with, that he is from the Czech indebted budget, which now owes this government and the previous one, which we were not part of, so that billions are to be given Ukraine instead of Czech citizens and instead of Prime Minister Fiala solving problems in the Czech Republic. It's just completely unbelievable! And we are opposed to giving billions to the reconstruction of Ukraine, because according to the European Court of Auditors, which is an EU advisory body, Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, and these authorities themselves state that billions sent to Ukraine's development before the outbreak of the conflict did not bring about an increase in the standard of living for Ukrajinec. In addition, the News website pointed out that Ukrainian President Zelenskyj, whose activities in tax havens showed Pandora Papers, found himself among more than a hundred politicians who tried to avoid paying taxes in their country. So these are Prime Minister Fiala's priorities and his government. There is organized crime in the government and people, citizens, literally many are already falling on their mouths from the fact that the government of Petr Fiala for even three quarters of a year since you have a majority here in the House, you are unable to help Czech citizens, citizens in the Czech Republic, with expensive prices of energy, food and so on. So the SPD considers this overall unsustainable situation to be the only honest solution to the demise of Petr Fiala's government. It is, of course, absurd to want the Interior Minister and the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement to solve this problem, whose partique is the main actor of this corruption megacaust. It's being handled by the police. So logically Vít Rakušan as chairman of the group whose top members, as we have learned, are blowing drugs into the rectum, so of course he can no longer be Minister of the Interior. I also wanted to say that it is quite unthinkable for a man whose party is quite proven to benefit from crime, specifically the senior members of the group, to be the head of the ministry that runs the police. There is no doubt that millions of foreign donations to the STAN are money laundered in tax havens. This money was sponsored by the Pirates and STAN coalition. That's why, even on my repeated question, for six months, I'm asking here who the end-owners of the companies who sponsored the election to the Chamber of Deputies last fall, the election campaign of the Pirates and STAN, who the end-owners of the companies are, and Vít Rakušan doesn't want to tell us here. He doesn't want to tell us here even for a repeated question. I think we know why. [[10.50 hours]] Sadly, STAN's sponsor and vice-chairman, pan Michalik, died because now the police are in danger of delaying his prosecution and uncovering his business. After all, Mr. Michalik was an exemplary representative of STAN. A man who in the past had to withdraw from the candidate for suspicion of a 50-million-dollar tax evasion and eventually found asylum in the only gang in which the dirtier money clearly doesn't smell. It's really magical if you put the name of candidate STAN on Google for the minister and Vice-President STAN Věslav Michalik and you get the headlines: Michalik has disappeared from the TOP 09 candidate, he has the police on his heels. And it's very funny, in quotes, how many government colleagues here are suffocating, like others. As Michalik or Minister Gazdík resign from office, they claim to be a virtue. The former Minister of Education Gazdík brought to the Ministry an advisor to Šteffl, who is now also charged in Hlubučkův's case and, according to Insider, actually managed million-dollar IT contracts for the operation of state math. As such a man drove them, we can imagine. And how many of these advisors and orders are still in government departments, no one knows. But if the police work well, and I believe they will, we will have many more surprises. Surprise of the seeming, because when the ministry is run by people, run by mobsters or people connected to organized crime, we can't be surprised at anything. We must also remember that Mr Rakušan began his career as Minister by effectively firing the successful and honest police President Jan Švejdar. Blah, Vít, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Rakušan, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Yes, the police are saving crimes at STAN, but they're saving them despite the Home Secretary, not because of him. The even worse news is that, according to the latest information, representatives of other government parties were also involved in the criminal corruption structure built by STAN. So far, there is talk of ODS and TOP 09 with the fact that these gangs reportedly went from criminal activity also money to party cash registers. But we'll see if it's true and what else will come out. In fact, this is information for the government to fall. That's why the government is already catching on to any lies to at least hold on to voters in some way. Prime Minister Petr Fiala, for example, is knowingly lying in front of people and repeatedly saying that the government is adding pensions to people this year. It's another government desperate lie like a tower. All of this year's valorisations are mandatory by law due to high inflation, which has been adopted in the past. Thus, pensions are automatically wound up without any government intervention and would automatically have to valorize, even if there was a trained monkey in the government. The only increase in pensions this year in addition to statutory valorisation has been CZK 300 a month since January, thanks to last year's vote by members of the SPD and the ANO movement, who together voted for an increase in pensions during the last parliamentary term. And it was the parties of the current five-police government that voted last year against raising pensions this year. We voted on this last summer. So only members of the SPD and the ANO movement vote in the House to raise pensions, and this is what the media should be reminded of. Petr Fiala's government gave no extra penny of its will to the elderly. Petr Fiala's government rather supports Ukrajinec than supporting our citizens. That's why I mentioned the current one here and not by far the first statement by Petr Fiala from this week at the conference in Lugano, Switzerland. I am not surprised that the government of Petr Fiala is called the Ukrainian government and that the Prime Minister of the Fial is called the Ukrainian Prime Minister. It's true. It's true. So it is clear to us that Petr Fiala's government coalition is now absolutely unvoted for the vast majority of citizens. But it's clear to us that she won't release the pond and she won't give up her posts just because she's involved in a crime and lost the trust of most citizens. But it should at least have a fundamental reflection and reconstruct the government so that it disappears from it the most proficient or least competent faces. But I would obviously want too much, too. Because Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself would have to resign here in the first place, who sends signals about his incompetence every day. Unfortunately, all citizens see his inability to deal with price increases on their wallets. In any case, we believe that STAN's chairman and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan should leave the government immediately, because it is not possible for the party's chairman to be directly connected to organized crime in the government. The current corruption megacausa, which reigns the government movement STAN and in which other parties to the government coalition are soaked, contains everything that can be imagined. Drugs in the rectum, co-worker of one of the biggest mobsters and criminals in our country, Radovan Krejčíř, corruption, rigged contracts, tax fraud, mysterious money coming from the STAN movement from abroad. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the monstrosity of the highest, largest format that can only be compared to the crimes of the ODS in the 1990s. In a normal country, a government co-managed by a party, part of which is organized crime, would have to resign. And the truth is, the purest solution would be an extraordinary election. Because whoever the five-calice put on the Ministry, no one will believe that it's not connected to criminals who seem to control the government's STAN. After all, we have also seen this now that the government has nominated the government movement STAN as Petr Gazdík's new minister of education. He's a Balaš MP, he's become the new Minister of Education. In an interview, Mr. Balaš, the new Minister of Education, quite clumsyly acknowledged that he had no knowledge of education at all, that he had no knowledge of regional education, which is primary and secondary schools, while admitting that it was 70 percent of the Ministry of Education's entire agenda. So the nominator of the STAN movement, who was appointed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala, himself admits that he doesn't understand education at all, and in his honesty in the interview he admitted it to the public. And such incompetent people of the STAN movement are already setting up the ministry because no one outside the STAN parliamentary club wanted to be a minister for a party that is part of organized crime anymore. Because the STAN movement made offers to ministers, but no one wanted to be a minister anymore for a party that is part of organized crime, and God knows where it's going to go, and he didn't want to tarnish his career. This means, in the finals, as important areas as education, so in Petr Fiala's government, there will be a person who says in itself that he does not know at least 70 percent of the Ministry of Education's agenda. So what's an incompetent person gonna do there? That's just the problem. And you can tell me here a hundred times that he taught college. But Vladimír Balaš himself says he doesn't know 70 percent of the education agenda. So your government is downhill. That is why it is one of the many and many proofs that Vít Rakušan and the STAN movement should have left the government themselves, because Prime Minister Fiala clearly does not have the courage to take this step, and STAN prefers to keep its teeth in that government. So all citizens of the Czech Republic are already paying for it. It's not just that you're not dealing with a price increase. As a place to address our proposals here to help people who are getting more expensive, we're dealing with the organized crime of the STAN movement. It's holding up the whole republic. So the long-term mafia practices of the STAN movement and criminal acts that interfere with the structures of other government parties are incompatible with the further functioning of the government and also damage the credit of the Czech Republic abroad. [[11.00 hours]] Here's what happened last week on Friday. This was the day the Czech Republic took over the Presidency in the European Union. I just tried to go to Google on Saturday - the government, Petr Fiala, the Presidency and so on, I put it there in English and then I put it there, I transformed it into German and so on. Only in a minute of Google, or thirty seconds, I had at least five to ten articles in the foreign media, which is about organized crime and corruption in Petr Fiala's government, because in connection with the fact that the Czech Republic took over the Presidency, foreign media wrote about the Czech government and who is in charge here. So you have disgraced the whole Czech Republic. You are a disgrace to the entire Czech Republic abroad. You smeared the ten million decent Czech citizens and made us a corrupt country even before that foreign country. You are incredibly damaging to the Czech Republic and our image, because why is it that the Czech Presidency in the European Union is being taken over about corrupt government and corruption in the Czech Republic? The citizens of the Czech Republic certainly do not deserve that. But you don't give a damn! This made it even more trivial that Prime Minister Petr Fiala was indulging himself with the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyenová at the time when the European Commission launched an inquiry into the Czech Republic for support for the completion of Dukovan, and this completion is essentially needed in order to maintain energy security. And she's got a fucking hug. He doesn't just say hello to her. Greetings are polite, but he still hugs her. This is such a sad sight that when the investigation of the Czech Republic is launched, he still hugs there servilically. This is an incredible situation! It is extremely unacceptable that the chairman of the party whose members have been convicted of criminal proceedings should serve as the Minister of the Interior, a department that covers law enforcement authorities. Yes, it's under investigation. It's still under investigation. Vít Rakušan must therefore resign immediately as Minister of the Interior and in the overall context of what I have said here, we ask for the resignation of the entire government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u5	The next will be President Alena Schillerová, followed by Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on a day exactly three months later, we meet here at an emergency meeting to address the problems of the STAN movement. On April 7, it was Stanislav Polčák's political business. I'm sure you'll remember the case. Stanislav Polčák promised help to the mayors of the villages affected by the explosions in Vrbětice. He spoke with them at press conferences as an altruist MEP, and when the Chamber of Deputies of lex Vrbětice approved the votes of MPs across the entire spectrum during the last parliamentary term, he did not hesitate to ask for a million-dollar reward. It was a surprise for both the mayors of the municipalities and, in fact, for everyone, because Stanislav Polčák has been acting as a MEP and a politician defending the interests of people all the time, as many of us do. He didn't act as a lobbyist. And yet he may have also written meetings with other Members into the activity declared. If we go back another three months, we've had another emergency meeting. And once again, it was the case of the STAN movement. It was January 13th and we discussed funding the STAN movement and foreign donations from Cypriot companies with unclear ownership structures, which were previously highlighted in the News List. The result was the same in both cases. Although these were serious suspicions, it was easier for you to sweep the whole thing under the carpet, not allow discussion, and rather you did not approve the program with your coalition votes. Surely no one can attack us by grasping any straws, by taking advantage of any opportunity to beat the STAN movement for something. On the contrary, if I look back, there's been a lot more of these cases in that six months. It all began with the unclear and unexplained origin of the money candidate for the Minister of Industry. We had a trip to the United States to the President of the House of Deputies, who he knew about before the election, but he kind of forgot to tell the voters about it. There was also a forgotten company at the time by Minister Gazdík or the strange end of the police president. These cases mostly had something in common. At first, the leadership of the STAN movement acted like it was nothing, the whole thing was downplayed, and only after the subsequent media pressure began to resolve the matter. No one could be surprised by the opposition if it called an emergency meeting for each of these cases. The YES movement does not want to play any theatre here. Our goal is to deal with these things, unless the government coalition itself has the power to do so. Today we have the most serious problem so far, which, as it turns out, is not just about the STAN movement, but it is a serious problem of two government parties. Perhaps even three, given the clear political responsibility of the pirate mayor Hřib, for whose leadership the Transport Company was probably robbed in Prague, and whose deputy police took him in handcuffs. That's the political responsibility we're talking about. Then we have a direct one, and it is definitely falling on the STAN movement. The president of the Prague organization ended up in custody, and I don't want to mention that in the media, but I can say that with the STAN movement came to top politics what was perhaps not here in the darkest 1990s - ties with mobsters, organized robberies, drugs, and other crazy things. However, it turns out that apart from the STAN movement, which probably no longer surprised anyone by participating in the case, it is also directly involved with the TOP 09. Member of TOP 09, election manager and right hand of former Chairman TOP 09, MEP and Prague representative Jiří Pospíšil, Jiří Fremr, was supposed to be a member of the organized criminal group. That makes it complete. Both the Pirstan coalition and the SPOL coalition are directly involved in this case. I don't want to discuss the case here, but in detail, we could have read a lot in the media, and I also think the law enforcement authorities should have peace of mind. Rather, I want to talk about the political plane of this corruption scandal, because the whole thing shakes confidence in politics in general. I want to talk about the role of the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister's approach, who is trying to elegantly keep this matter quiet. As an YES movement, we have repeatedly called on both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan to change the government. If there are no doubts, no one in the STAN movement can be the head of the Ministry of the Interior. The STAN movement is burdened with so many cases that police are investigating and investigating in some way that there is simply no option for Vít Rakušan as Chairman of the STAN movement to remain Minister of the Interior. That's a colossal conflict of interest. We can hear from the Minister a thousand times that he doesn't commit any influence, that when the intervention took place, it's the best proof of the independence of the police. But it's not like that. The intervention was just the beginning of the whole story, and we all know the steps that preceded it. He hasn't been Minister of the Interior or Minister yet, and he's finished with the police president after the meeting. Then we have plans to reorganize the police. In other words, even if the best intentions were the Minister of the Interior, there will always be huge doubts about not only the opposition but also the public. Once again, people's trust in politics will be undermined. [[11.10 hours]] And in the context of what I have just said, I am very surprised at Prime Minister Petr Fial. Especially at this volatile time, when one crisis after another is pouring on our citizens, it should be in his interest that the trust of citizens should not be reduced by the fact that the party's representative is the head of the department, notabene, whose leaders have been in contact with the mobsters, they have been on vacation with them, and others are being investigated. This is particularly true when, as my colleague and chairman of the constitutional-legal committee Radek Vondráček rightly pointed out, the whole matter may also concern the STAN movement as a legal person. This is a plane that is not spoken of so far, but which is also impossible to ignore and pretend that it does not exist. If there was any suspicion that STAN was sponsored from the money from the crime, for example, the police simply have to deal with it. We all remember the recent Metrostav case, which was just as a legal person finally convicted. And then we would get into a completely absurd situation that the Home Secretary is also the head of the subject under investigation. And that STAN has long-term problems with funding, I guess it doesn't have to be divorced twice. We were discussing this at an emergency meeting where the coalition did not approve the program, but one special case was also brought to the attention of Diary N last week. Former Minister Gazdík repeatedly said that the STAN donation from Petr Redl helped the STAN to win the election in Zlín. But no such gift is reportedly recorded anywhere from that time. When Mr Gazdík understood that he probably spoke more than he should again, he began to shift responsibility to the MEP Polčák, who he said was in charge of STAN's finances at the time - which, by the way, is very distinctive. Even he couldn't explain it. Sure, we're talking about 2010, but I have to ask: is this the only case? Are there any other similar sponsorship gifts that aren't really sponsor donations? How does it go with the fact that the Home Secretary, according to Petr Gazdík himself, called on the encrypted phone - which, by the way, were also used by those who are now accused of organized crime - to simply take and trample? Isn't that destroying potential evidence? Instead of taking all this into account, Minister Rakušan resigned from his position and took up another position in the government, he is, on the contrary, incomprehensiblely clinging to his position. And on top of that, they share totally inappropriate videos from the roof of the Ministry of the Interior, where it de facto threatens its political competition. If he doesn't have judgment himself, Prime Minister Petr Fiala should have it. Instead, he tries the whole scandal, during which the Minister of Education resigned because of his contact with the mob, so he tries to keep it quiet. I have to say, when I watched the speech to the nation, as the Prime Minister named the press conference exquisitely, it really struck me by the fact that not one word of corruption, which at that time moved the Czech Republic, was the head of the minister, there are two government parties involved. And it wasn't just the evening speech. Since then, the Prime Minister has been acting like he's not really involved at all. And how's it going, please, together with the fact that under a secret regime, this case is being dealt with by the government? If this were a local Prague matter, as Petr Fiala said earlier, I doubt that it would have to be discussed by the government at all. Then I really don't understand why the public shouldn't know about it. If it's so serious that it deserves to be discussed with the government, and I don't think there's any doubt that it does, then don't cover it up, keep it informed and face it. I said it before, our chairman said it too, that at this point we are not collecting signatures to express distrust to the government. And I honestly say that those angry people who wrote me about it were a lot. And frankly, I don't blame them at all. The reasons for such a move would be quite appropriate. However, we too feel responsible for how our Presidency of the European Union will look in the world. We have experience with this in the past. We know what a shame it was when Mirek Topolánek's government fell during the presidency. At the same time, however, I am quite clear that we are not going to give the government a blank check for six months of carefree rule. It is not just the Presidency that is ahead of us, but above all it is the need to help people. That's what's important. These people are already in huge trouble, and because of the Presidency, the Prime Minister and the entire government should certainly not forget them. We need an action government. But most of all, the government has to face the scandal. Of course, it's a huge embarrassment now. Every week, however, we learn new and new facts that cannot be ignored. And if this situation continues to escalate and the Prime Minister continues to pretend that everything is in order, we will have to consider further steps. It has become such a rule that we meet here every three months because of some serious case of the STAN movement. The script is always the same: you let Members with priority rights testify because you have nothing left to do, and then you sweep it under the carpet by not approving the program. Face it! Don't worry, support the agenda! Let the other Members speak. Prague representative, our Member Patrik Nacher, Vice-President of the Security Committee Jiří Mašek and others. You won't be able to keep your mouth shut by this scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u7	Next, Minister Vít Rakušan will appear and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, even a hundred times repeated lie will not become true, even though the whole Agrofert machine and its political division, the YES movement, participates in its repetition. We are witnessing the most brutal demagogy and propaganda when the defendant of the grant fraud who performed here and shouted to us from the Chamber of Deputies "I will never resign!" - I think it was also Slovak, Czech, combined - so this man is telling us now who should and should not resign from the government? This guy who's the defendant himself, and the fact that I reminded him that the court date is coming, yes, I reminded him, that's the reality that they want to forget. Yes, Andrej Babiš goes to trial and is the defendant. He never resigned from his post, never responded to any calls, and somehow I do not remember calling on Minister Metnar to resign because his chairman is criminally prosecuted in the Chamber of Deputies. And it was even published then, if I'm not mistaken. That didn't happen here, that was the double standard of the YES movement. This group, which has grown into state administration itself as a cancer, and we still feel these metastases, will it moralize anyone? These people are gonna tell us how we're supposed to behave now, and whether we should or shouldn't resign? Do they have any self-esteem at all? I'd like to ask you something, and maybe it'd be nice, too. Mr. Counselor Šteffl has been mentioned here. Has Mrs Dostálová been told that he advised her, I don't know, two or three years with the construction process at the Ministry of Regional Development? And maybe when the club of the ANO movement takes a break today, ask which Members were in contact with Mr Dovhomilja, who saw him, who worked with him here, if it wasn't the people of your ranks, if it wasn't the contacts you're talking about that everyone else had. You're pointing out other political parties here, but maybe you should start with your own MP and ask your own people. Will this work, this propaganda? Maybe she is. She's strong. Communists managed to tell people right before the regime fell that the West was rotten, and then their own regime fell like a house of cards. Putin was able to tell people that Ukraine was the culprit of the conflict, and they believe that in Russia. [[11.20 hours]] Andrej Babiš is now trying to tell us that STAN is a fatal problem in this country. After the ANO movement here demonstrated the growth of one particular company and specific business structures into the state administration. After several conflicts of interest have been demonstrated here by former Prime Minister Babiš. Did you forget all that? You're gonna be a judge now? You're gonna moralize now? Now you're going to say who and under what circumstances should resign? A man accused of a subsidy fraud who, yes, has, like all other criminal prosecutions and defendants, a chance to defend himself in court, and then he'll be innocent. But so far, he's the defendant of the grant fraud in the Czech Republic. There's a lot of markings for that kind of behavior. Thieves screaming: catch the thief! Wag the dog, or maybe a simple insolence. Organized crime in our country is handled by the police, by the justice department, whoever's doing it. Whether he commits it and is a suspected member of the STAN movement, or whether he may be guilty of it or if he is a suspected member of the ANO movement. That's right, that's right, that's right, that's right. Fortunately, one who is guilty or innocent does not rule propaganda in a democratic state. Even the more self-sustaining propaganda doesn't decide, it's just a court decision. We've heard the sentences he said here, if I'm not mistaken, President Okamura, that the police are handling this case despite the Home Secretary. No, it doesn't work that way, it shows your bad thinking. The police aren't supposed to deal with any case against anyone or anyone. The police are supposed to deal with every case independently. And the fact that the police are obviously now intervening in a movement whose chairman is the Home Secretary is the best proof that the police are working without any political order. And even people who call me who probably have no reason to like me say that the police are finally working without any political pressure. And there's the word at last. And then I would stop by one of Mr Babiš's sentences in an interview for the Law. Mr. Švejdar, yes, has left his presidency and certainly has no reason to love me. But he himself said, he himself said that I never mentioned before him the name Hlubuček or any Prague connection. The Editor of Law asks Mr. Babiš: Shouldn't you apologize to Mr. Rakušan? - No, I have my information. Your information to the Agrofert security division? What information do you have, through Mr President? What's your intel when there were two people at that meeting? Mr. Švejdar was on it, and I was on it. We both said the name "The Hlubuček" didn't come up. And what does Mr. Babiš say to us? I have my information. Any informants? Security agency? Is someone following us? How can he have his information when two people, the only two who were at that meeting, have said this information completely publicly? What does the Member say? Is he threatening us? He's sending us messages that he has his information? Is this how this place used to be? Not now. Now the police - and I believe justice - are working independently and without anyone talking to them. And I have a feeling that there's one reason for not being at the Home Office is because there's a concern that, without any pressure, the police aren't just going through this case, but they're going to proceed in all cases that may potentially affect any entity, any political party, any policy in the Czech Republic. Well-meaning advice from some colleagues, whether I take the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Regional Development - thank you for that. Thank you for your confidence, I'm sure they'd be interesting resorts, I'm sure I could handle them, I'm sure they'd be less stressful than the Ministry of the Interior, and they would certainly bring a lot of internal satisfaction. I take that as well-meaning advice from you. Thank you for her. I'm sure it's about preserving my mental health. But I'm not leaving the Home Office. I'm not gonna make you happy. I want the police in the Czech Republic to work well, as well as the other files under the Ministry of the Interior. I also want the Ukrainian crisis to be dealt with effectively. I also want all the challenges facing us at the Ministry of the Interior to be addressed. And that there are a lot of them, because your government hasn't really left it to us in such an amazing state. We're talking about STAN's case and the listing of what was going on here, Mr. former Prime Minister Babiš read the case. There was one missing - the sewer, the Brno sewer. Faltýnkův's journals were missing. That wasn't there at all. I didn't hear it in this list. That's weird. That's probably some sort of selective choice of how the parties built political culture here. It also lacked its own prosecution for the subsidy fraud on the case of the Capi Nest and potential conflicts of interest. Is this what you were good at shaping the political culture when we had a criminally prosecuted prime minister here? Was that something that brought the best advertising to the Czech Republic, certainly at the European level? I don't know about another country, maybe that's the kind of country that would lead the Prime Minister with such a colossal problem. And when former Prime Minister Babiš mentioned Kolín, that's a nice story for you. I really had to hire a lawyer there, that's true, for lying leaflets, which the deputy, candidate for mayor in Cologne for the ANO movement Martin Herman, published all over Cologne under the foreign name Havlíček, without signing, tossed around the mailbox and lied about us there. Yes, through Mr President, Mr Babiš, I have married a lawyer because this man has slandered me, and for the first time in my life, I have given a criminal report without knowing that Mr Havlíček, who ordered it, is actually a candidate for mayor for the YES movement, Mr Herman. And that Cologne, where I led it from ten to five, Mr former Prime Minister, through Mr President, I once got 63 and 64 percent there, and your ANO movement, including the parliamentary elections in that last era, was losing all the elections there. Maybe that's why you mention Kolín. And I want to tell you that for one of my cases, I wasn't prosecuted, prosecuted in Cologne, and that last case -- Dropped PES gave me some criminal complaint about legal services -- so that was justly postponed, and you know it. So to question my achievements in Cologne, I'm sure you'd be good at that, but it's one of your fairy tales that we've all gotten used to here. Win the election there and show what you can do in Cologne. You haven't been doing so well so far, we'll see in the fall. And to use here - and it is also funny that when the Czech television is live, Mr Babiš says: Czech television doesn't even transmit it anymore. It says so for the live broadcast of Czech Television. So use every case and the opportunity to sort of shave in the back into public media. Yes, I'm sure you'd like that. You mentioned pre-election debates. Well, you lost in those, you just didn't work out. Don't blame it on Czech TV, it's just like the thing that was like that. So not the Czech TV, but you just lost the election the way you behaved and what you did here. We will not vote for the STAN to approve the agenda for today's meeting. I've explained the reasons, I think, enough. And to my opponents who are offended by the current problems of our movement, I would like to say one thing: I perceive them. I'm not demeaning them at all. And unlike the fact that you never resigned - but I will never, ever withdraw - so we take responsibility from it, even painfully, and the responsibility that is first and personal, second in fact, when we do very detailed audits of all internal processes in our country, thirdly, we will also have an ANO movement which, of course, delegates - sorry, the STAN movement... the ANO movement didn't have it, I don't know if after the Stoka you had your own council - but I don't know if this is sufficient or insufficient, but we, we are responding to it. What did you respond to? When did you take some responsibility for what you were doing here? Why don't you name your own cases that were here? No. You never step down. [[11.30 hours]] I mean, yes, we will do everything we can to keep STAN's problems from happening again. We apologize to all those who have been affected by our current problems. We realize that we have failed public confidence. We realize that a criminal case involving our important member is certainly something that no political force in any country wants to experience. But we will do our best not to repeat this in our country, not by excuses, not by marketing, not by demagogy, but by trying to represent our movement by those people who represent it throughout the Republic, that is to say, decent mayors, decent mayors, people who certainly have no criminal background and who are offended by the words used by the former Prime Minister here. And one more comment about Mr. Okamur: don't lie here! A lie is not a means. Věslav Michalik was never prosecuted. He's never been prosecuted. Please find all the information you can get. Newspaper headlines, propaganda, lies and screams are not the same as prosecution. He was never prosecuted. He can't defend himself anymore. But I think it is necessary to say out loud here that spreading lies about Mr. Michalik, even in the context of what happened, is really disgusting! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u9	Good morning. Hello, everyone. We took turns managing the meeting. The next will continue, Vice-President Kovářová. Madam Vice-President, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this is by far not the first time an extreme case has been dealt with in this hall that relates to illegal conduct within the political party. This has been experienced in the past by former colleagues from some political parties, although some today seem to have never been the case. I believe that it is right here to address the issues of political culture and the legal responsibility of politicians. After all, we all made a commitment to upholding the laws in the parliamentary pledge. We in the STAN movement take our political responsibility very seriously. However, there must be limits to the purposeful conduct of the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of political culture, responsibility and morality. And they are now trying to cross the opposition. First of all, we are dealing with a case in which the law has not broken, and there is no suspected Member. We are dealing with the impacts of the municipal Prague case, in which none of us Members and Members are directly responsible. However, our movement of mayors and independents has always consistently advocated transparency and deducing personal political responsibility from fundamental political missteps. The problem is not to face the consequences of the criminal behavior of one member of our movement. From the moment our former member Petr Hlubuček was accused by the police, we focus on minimizing the individual's failure as quickly as possible. We thoroughly examine the origin of the financial contributions received, we deal with this problem at all levels. Our officials, who are affected by the case, have taken up their duties without delay. We are preparing an extraordinary council and we want to regain the trust of our constituents. Nor do we resist rational discussions about the degree of responsibility of our movement with our political partners and opponents. On the contrary, what I see the problem, and the big problem, is the totally unacceptable effort of the opposition to judge this criminal case by the principle of collective guilt. Until now, I thought that the collective guilt in our country was over with the fall of communism. Under communists, it was all because of the ball and bourgeoisie. Collective guilt is a manipulative method used for wars and genocide. Do we really want to talk seriously about collective guilt in the 21st century in the Czech Republic? From the crime scene of one politician, for whom he himself must bear a fair punishment, suddenly we are getting somewhere in the 1950s. I'm really terrified of where we've gone in an attempt to humiliate a political opponent. Moreover, it has absolutely nothing to do with justice. The principle of collective guilt in modern Europe is totally unacceptable. The promotion of collective guilt is grossly unfair to all the people it touches. In our particular case, there is an effort to tarnish hundreds of successful and honest members and supporters of our movement, hundreds of mayors and mayors, our captains, regional and municipal representatives who work honestly every day for the benefit of their fellow citizens. Telling these people that they're criminals isn't just unfair, it's also offensive. Dear colleagues, let us therefore consider carefully how we are going to address this issue. If we really accept the opposition proposed by the principle of collective guilt, I am very concerned about how far such an unprecedented violation of the civilised legal system could take place. He's already using the opposition instead of the facts of speculation and accusations without evidence, words like the Mafia, Palermo, return of the nineties. However, with the same logic of collective guilt, one might say that all Members in this House are taking advantage of subsidies because one of us is being charged for this. And I'm asking, do we really want that? I believe not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u11	The next one will appear according to Mr. Fiala's applications. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first respond to what I have just heard from Minister Rakušan and Vice-President Kovářová. I feel like this case is actually more about opposition than your five-caliber. We're dealing with growing crime into a five-calice government here, but you're not answering our questions, you're acting like nothing happened, and on the contrary, you're attacking us, what we've even allowed ourselves to do here to approve or bring up a meeting and ask you what you're going to do about it. You don't even have a solution. You're attacking. Your tactic is that the best defense is an attack, and you're attacking us instead of saying that something really serious has happened and that you have to do something about it. But I didn't hear that in one word. [[Reaction from the right: You didn't listen.]] He was listening. I listened very well. I listened very well. So let's go to the case. I'm sorry. I thought there'd be some sort of self-esteem from you, but I haven't heard anything yet. [[11.40 hours]] To date, the unexplained, extremely serious case of the STAN movement, many of which have an illegal character, has accompanied us virtually nonstop since the last elections. You remember when we voted on government trust here, and just before that confident government, the SPD was taking a break on it - I don't think it was, sorry, it wasn't government trust, it was a programming statement - and we were taking a break because half an hour before the vote, it appeared on the List server Reports that simply the STAN movement has non-discriminatory funding of the party. It didn't really bother any of you here, it didn't bother the pirát who campaigned alongside the STAN movement, the most transparent pirát who have always won prizes for their transparency in politics, and now they didn't mind that they basically don't even know what money they're doing their campaign for. But what I'm saying is, we've been pointing that out from the start. And that, in fact, it hasn't been a month since the last election that something about the STAN movement has sailed. Better said, since then, they have gradually surfaced and become public. Of course, they have their origins and roots in a much deeper past, literally stretching like a famous red thread since the beginning of the STAN movement's entire history of its existence and infamously ending in recent Prague's intervention by a special police unit of the National Headquarters to fight organized crime and arrest. The joint denominators of all the excesses of the STAN movement are: suspicion, somewhere already confirmed, from criminal proceedings, abuse of public money in large, suspicious party financing, conspiracy, secrecy, abuse of the status of a public official, an extensive conflict of interest arising from the accumulation of functions and power of representatives of the STAN movement, and without any doubt also the personal involvement and personal involvement of STAN leaders in these scandals. The connection to public money flows thus becomes the basic characteristic of the STAN movement, its distinguishing mark and basically the main reason and purpose of its existence. In other words, and someone has already quoted it in the media that we are kind of getting back in the '90s in the form of the STAN movement. Looking back at all the cases and scandals of this movement in the knowledge of what we know about them today and what we know about the behaviour and practices of its leaders, it can only be said with a slight exaggeration that the elections to the leadership of the STAN movement have never been competitive programs and ideas of individual candidates, but rather similar to the former popular TV competition "Do you want to be a millionaire?". Longtime national leaders of the STAN movement, especially Mr Polčák, who closely connected the movement with Mr Redl, controlled the Prague organization and is still a MEP, Mr Gazdík, but many others have simply made their political engagement under the head of the Mayors an advantageous and lucrative business based on the vacuuming of public budgets. The ongoing investigation may soon show whether this activity has a criminal character as well. But now it's clear that in the case of some of the representatives of the movement, I'm sure they do. The ongoing investigation... All this has been covered up by false talk about a new political culture, about decency, about liberal democracy. So it was basically a long-term voter fraud. All this has been covered up all along, yes, I have said that, and also about the misuse of the good reputation of thousands of honest mayors of communities throughout the Republic whose name the Mayors and the STAN movement have deliberately usurped for themselves, although the vast majority of mayors in the country do not represent and have nothing to do with them - and neither do they. Today's meeting... the last criminal case of the STAN movement is just the famous tip of the iceberg and the famous whipped cream on a rotten cake. I would like to remind you that from this place at two extraordinary meetings a few weeks ago, or months ago, which took place in the previous STAN Escapades, I drew attention to many serious problems. Many serious problems that have now escalated publicly. Me and my colleagues in the SPD movement. For example, it was a very dubious system financing of the STAN movement through hidden sponsors, which I was talking about here, where they were actually doing a joint election campaign with the Pirates for this sponsorship money. And, apparently, as the first politician, I drew attention to the close, repeated contacts of STAN's chiefs with a co-worker of the escaped crime lord Radovan Krejčíř, Mr Michal Redl, at a special meeting here in April. I've never read any police files on these things, I've come out here purely from what the servers, newspapers, and so on. That means no one can say, even Minister Rakušan, that he didn't know anything. And even then, I pointed out that it is a publicly known fact that Mr Polčák and Mr Redl had already consulted STAN's personnel nominations for positions in the institutions of companies established in the capital city of Prague and important positions at the Prague City Council during the previous parliamentary term. There are long ago documents in the form of e-mail communication. At the time, no one was okay with it, leaving everyone cold, especially Mr. Rakušan and the rest of the leadership of the STAN movement. And it did not bother the coalition partners of the STAN movement in the leadership of Prague, i.e. TOP 09, folklore, Pirates and neither Mr Hřiba. I was sitting with him on TV, and he told me that Mr. Hlubuček wasn't actually his deputy, that he didn't nominate him, that he couldn't do anything about it, he didn't know anything. And that they actually, like, co-existed there at the Magistrate. And it did not bother Mr Čižinský and his association Prague Soba, who today play surprised and unconscious saints. It is clear that they could, had and had to know about this form of linking the STAN to organised crime. And they didn't mind for years. They too are responsible for Mr Hlubuček's bitter cases today. It is clear that they had to know about this form. I spoke here about Mr Redl's recent meeting with the head of the Czech Post state enterprise Roman Knap, who explained this meeting by saying that it was a meeting in the post-election reconstruction of the spaghetti of power, while the Czech Post falls under the Ministry of the Interior Ministry's Resort directed by Mr Rakušan. It's been about a month since I asked Mr. Rakušan here from this place, what it meant, how it was done to reconfigure the spaghetti of power in the Czech Post, how it actually happens. And Mr. Rakušan, of course, was very surprised at the time, he only heard about everything from the media and basically didn't answer me in any specific way. When the police arrested Redlův's gang, however, Mr. Rakušan suddenly announced that Mr. Knap would call off Redl's appointment from the head of the post office, and so he did. Why didn't he do it right after our warning? Or after this meeting became publicly known? Was it okay then? Are we always gonna wait until we hit the police special forces? This episode alone tells a lot about the incompetence and hypocrisy of Minister Rakušan. At the April emergency meeting, I was also talking about the already well-known suspicion about Petr Hlubuček himself. Even then, I recalled that one of the members of the leadership of the STAN movement told the server Neotikni.cz: We know Hluček is Hlubuček investigation, even though the police haven't charged him yet. - So you knew it again, and you didn't act again, and you let your deputy rattle in Prague and the city companies go on. This is really unbelievable. And you're still asking why you should resign? Let us now conclude even more specifically on the last case of the STAN movement, the Dosimeter, where the Michal Redl gang, through the deputy mayor of Prague Hlubuček, has long influenced Prague's public procurement and spent money, among other things, from the Prague Transport Company. Just like I quoted here from public sources, servers, newspapers last month, when, in fact, all the things that happened, I advertised in advance because the journalists already knew them, but you didn't deal with them, so today I also have a few quotes from the newspapers, from the servers and from what the journalists know. And I'm deliberately quoting it here so that when other things may come out, you can't say that you didn't know about it and that no one told you and that you didn't get it. [[11.50 hours]] 24. 6. in an interview with news server Novinky.cz With former elite police detective Karel Tichý writes, among other things: "What was your reaction when you discovered that Redl's name was returning in a new case at the Prague City Hall?" - "I didn't believe it. It was around 2017, when it turned out that she was still a member of the ANO movement at the former Mayor of Krnáčová's City Council, Redl is connected to various people and the STAN movement. Someone told me he bought a Bentley, different apartments, and he's a billionaire. I told you it must be bullshit. But it was him. I immediately went to the then president of STAN Petr Gazdík." - "And what did you say to him?" asks the reporter of the elite detective." - "I asked him if he was crazy and if he knew who he was. He said he didn't know because Stanislav Polčák connected them, and that he was thanking and fixing it. With a good feeling, I trusted him and expected something to happen, but nothing happened. Whoever wanted to know had information." So I didn't know any, I had no idea, he was just an old family friend, I happened to meet him at the same hotel on vacation and all that. No. Part of STAN's top management knew very well who Michal Redl was dealing with. And they didn't mind. On the contrary, as they can see, it was more of a privilege for them in their eyes. And Mr. Rakušan either didn't know what was happening to him in the movement, or at least he suspected it and voluntarily played the role of a so-called white horse. Both are horrible, incompatible with the position of a member of the government and the Minister of the Interior. Minister Rakušan appears to be the last righteous in the entire criminal case of the movement he led. And we just saw this place. Like a man who never knew anything about anything that didn't have anything to do with it. Like a man who doesn't know Mr. Redl. As a man who, according to his own words, allegedly never trusted Mr. Hlubučka, and so on. However, he has tolerated it for many years, i.e. de facto supporting it in high party functions, in key positions within the management of the capital city of Prague and urban enterprises. It's just in the spirit of the "I'm nothing, I'm the chairman" password. And then Minister Rakušan also repeatedly presents himself as a person who doesn't interfere with police work, doesn't interfere with the investigation, doesn't care about any of this. A few tens of minutes ago, when Mr. Rakušan was performing here, he said in his speech: "No, I will not resign as Home Secretary because I will try to make the police work well. Then I ask, Minister, how are you going to do that if you can't interfere with it so the police can work well? You said it yourself, so look at your notes that you have it there. How are you gonna do that? And I have a specific question: have you ever told the House Security Committee that you will reorganize the police force, that you want a change in the National Headquarters against organized crime? That you want to add some cyberspace and stuff like that, just that you want to change something in these organizational folders? If so, you obviously wanted to interfere with the police structures. And if that's the case, Mr. Rakušan, I'm asking you to resign today, because in my opinion, if that's the case, you wanted to reorganize the NCOZ just to avoid the results of the investigation we have here today. But if we did not know at the same time, Minister, about your post-election meeting with former Police President Švejdar, after whom the police ex-president announced his resignation, we can only assume what was going on there. And this was, please, at a time when Mr. Rakušan was not even the Minister of the Interior yet, and even then, and of course before, he showed an above-standard interest in police matters. And some of his public statements suggest that this is still the case, however much the Minister tries to hide it. For example, and again I will quote from public sources, for the News List on 18. 6. Mr. Rakušan stated: "I repeat again that Petr Gazdík is not in any position as a suspect who would be allowed to negotiate anything with Mr. Redl, that he would be part of a conspiracy and that he would be conducting some calls that would make suspicions. Petr Gazdík drew political responsibility immediately, although he had good results in the ministry. That's very strong. Petr Gazdík would have deserved a threesome of behavior for this, but what's in those files is not to be expelled from school." End of quote by Minister Rakušan. So, Minister, what is it? Where did you get that information? On the one hand, Mr. Rakušan repeatedly states that he never interferes with any investigation, that everything goes beyond him and so on, and suddenly he says himself that he knows in detail the entire investigation file in the Hlubuček case when he claims that ex-minister Gazdík is not in the position of suspect. There are basically only two explanations. Either Mr. Rakušan fabulouss and invents and basically lies to defend his party colleague, does not see the file and deliberately confuses the public, it in itself is completely disqualifying for the position of Minister of the Interior, or Minister Rakušan does not lie, but in that case he has the entire investigation file at his disposal, which he has read because he does not have access to it by law, and in that case he directly participates in the crime and is unacceptably involved in the evictions of classified police materials. [[Even though?]] And it's quite indifferent how he got the file, so let it be the subject of further investigation. Anyway, the fact that Minister Rakušan publicly quotes from the file at a time when a non-public phase of criminal proceedings is ongoing is disastrous. It is undoubtedly also about obstruction of investigations by the Minister of the Interior, and that is an absolute outrage. It is, of course, completely incompatible with Mr Rakušan's continued capacity as Minister for even one minute. We also have Mr. Rakušan's statement again for the News List, dated 22. 6. The list has grown very fond of you, Minister. I quote: "But I have seen this file from journalists, and I will not want any other access to this document. Petr Gazdík did inexcusable stupidity, but nothing criminal." Well, that's very nice, the Minister is condescending to tell us that he won't want any more access to the file, as if he could, but he'll be so kind and he won't use it. That's the peak of papalism. And we're supposed to settle for that, and we're supposed to keep our mouths shut? By the way, Mr. Rakušan here also fits in with the role of investigator, prosecutor and perhaps a judge, when he authorities assess the criminality of Mr. Gazdík's actions. And he says: "I recommended Petr Gazdík to dig up the encrypted phone and throw out the window and not do such things. " If it wasn't so alarming and serious, it'd be ridiculous. Total grotesque is the idea of how two accomplices, currently in the positions of the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Education, advise on how to hide their actions that should never see the light of day: take the phone, the encrypted phone, kick it up and throw it out the window. And the idea of Petr Gazdík, as in the Ministry of Education, instead of solving the catastrophic shortage of places for pupils and students in schools, kicks the minister's office into an encrypted phone, through which he was communicating with the right hand of Mafia Krejčíř and the head of the gang pulling money out of Prague's urban businesses and blackmailing businessman Michal Redl, then throws the encrypted phone on the board of the Interior Minister Rakušan through a window into the Lesser Town Streets. What else is going on here other than obstruction of the investigation, on the direct counsel of the Home Secretary? Didn't any of them ever think for a second that they should hand the phone over to the investigators? What other arguments are needed to make it clear that Mr. Rakušan has nothing to do with his government position? That he repeatedly failed to exploit her and that she was in a fatal and permanent conflict of interest? Doesn't anybody in the government coalition really see that? Or does he see it and he's okay with it? What about the invisible and silent Prime Minister? Does he also not see and perceive the unsustainable situation where a bunch of STAN cronies and their mob buddies have privatized part of the state administration, and this is the safest of all? Whatever the consequences for the country are worse, but do not let our five-calice government fall, because it will never again gain the majority trust of citizens in the future. Hello every day. [[12.00 hours]] Where is your responsibility to the Czech Republic and to the Czech citizens? Where are the promises you made in accordance with the Constitution when taking up your duties? Is that just a piece of paper and empty words for you? So I tell you that these are not empty words for us and we care about the Constitution, we care about the reputation of the Czech Republic, but also about the reputation of politicians that you make villains and thieves of. Of all of us and her government and political government on the outside, no matter how politically it's composed. That is why we are clearly saying and putting forward arguments that all representatives of the STAN movement must leave the government. After all, the ideal solution would be for the entire government to leave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u13	Before the next Vice-President Havlíček comes forward, I would like to load my apologies. Mrs Maříková apologises from 16 to 18 hours for work reasons. From 10.30 to 12.45, from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons. Minister Balaš apologizes between 10.00 and 15.30 for professional reasons. That was an apology. I will now ask Vice President Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, if the debate on this point is not properly launched, it will be a complete contempt for our citizens, the public. It will be a sign of disdain and incredible arrogance. What we have heard here from Vice-President Rakušan as a defense - I understand that he defends his own party, but without any humility - is merely an arrogant mockery to all those who stand on the other side and who want nothing but a proper explanation. Why do I think it is necessary for today's debate to take place? In order to allow all actors, including those who may defend themselves, I consider this to be completely fair, but also those who are connected with Prague, who have a whole range of questions and do not have the right of priority. It is not the local problem of Prague, it is not the panoptics of the city of Prague. It is a huge problem for the government today, it is a big problem for the five-calice, and this problem needs to be properly explained. Not interfering with a police investigation. That goes in parallel, completely wrong. It is a political issue and a whole range of things need to be explained politically. Among other things, so that no one can make excuses for the fact that it is only from the media and that it is distorted. There's no better opportunity than to explain it on this very soil. That is why there is a parliament, among other things. Why isn't it a local matter? From the side of the five-calice, or today's government, this immediately affects three sides. STAN's in over his head. And the fact that today it turns out that everyone is the culprit, just not the STAN movement, when it's the sixth scandal in a row in six months, is about as much as I would have divorced six times in a row and I would have shown that the other one is always the culprit. But it's not just about the STAN movement. It's directly linked to the TOP 09 today. Mr. Pospíšil is definitely not a top 09 B player. Finally, the fact that the Chairman of the TOP 09 is invited to continue not to run is a clear enough argument that it is not possible to take this lightly and that everything was not quite right there. And the pirát? Well, then they're definitely not Fast arrows, no matter how angry they are at me today. If I'm not mistaken, they weren't even willing to come to today's House meeting. Mr. Mayor Hřib claims today that he knew many things that he was giving stimuli. So who's gonna pay the problem for the time he knew it was a game? He is responsible for Prague, he was discussed by the Prague transport company under his hands. To make excuses for his partners today, with whom he formed a coalition in Prague, with which he formed a coalition - not him, but the pirát in Central Bohemia... And maybe even because the PirSTAN coalition was formed in the Republic-wide, so maybe today the government is what it is. So the pirát running out of the water, jumping overboard and saying there's nothing going on at all, at least with them, it's Phariseeism, nothing else. It's not Fast Arrows, it's the Brotherhood of Cat Hands. And today they were supposed to stand here and argue as well. The fact that this is not a local issue also shows international reach. It is twice as important to judge today, because at that international level, we are not playing a second violin today. The Czech Republic shall chair the European Union. The fact that European newspapers once again write about the Czech Republic, but not in the sense of the Presidency of the European Union, which we may have expected, but in the sense of the megascandal that is happening here, is another indication that it is definitely not a local problem in Prague. Another problem here is directly linked to the Ministry of the Interior. Nobody claimed and claimed that the Vice Prime Minister was the head of the entire mafia and ran everything. But the fact is that the STAN movement, which plays a major role in this, and all the gallows and godfathers who pulled those strings, at least had a certain sense of higher security from the fact that the head of the STAN is also head of the Ministry of the Interior. And the fact that the Home Secretary today argues that the fact that he didn't intervene is actually the best indication that he's impartial is something incredible. Just to think that the Home Secretary would interfere with this is the worst thing that could happen. The fact that the Interior Minister emotionally or rather infantilely steps up on the roof of his own building and there screams "the 12th begins, the 12th will be" - I don't know, maybe it's a social media speech, maybe as an influencer, but let's remember that this is the Interior Minister, from whom a certain approach is expected. But the worst thing about it is that it's an octopus that's unparalleled here. Why do I think it's an octopus? I had to write down those ten points that are completely unprecedented and make it a scandal of unprecedented proportions. It's not just about the so-called KKK - now I don't know who has a patent on conspiracy, corruption, cocaine - but it has more far-reaching consequences, a more far-reaching dimension. It's about the orgies that were escorted with it today. Yes, President Excellent accused me of using the fourth price group dictionary. It insults all the fourth-rate regulars I grew up on as a student, because that's not where they talk. There may be beers, but basically decent people. What's happening here has nothing to do with the fourth price group. It's something far worse. Unfortunately, unfortunately, I say again, there are also victims. If I'm not mistaken, one of the accused is dead. This is unprecedented here. There are ciphers. And what's interesting is, the ciphers, or the encrypted phones, he distributed, he dealt, he brokered, the former Minister of Justice. Maybe even that would be good to talk about. Yes, those are the parts of the telenovela I mentioned. Hardly anyone would have thought of anything worse. Yes, we have the Minister of Education, who abdicated. We have two ministers of justice here. One is the one who brokered encrypted phones -- ex of course -- and the other is the one who had his advisor, who was directly involved in the whole affair. Yes, I'm talking about Mr Pospíšil, who has been Minister of Justice for several years. Does it seem normal to us that former ministers of justice are on this thin ice? As I said before, we have a roofing Home Office that may not have been covering up, but undoubtedly many of those mobsters felt safer. That's why the pressure on the Home Secretary. Well, to make matters worse, we have public television. That was the last pebble in the mosaic that was missing. So the investigative department of Czech Television is ready to shoot shows about how ten-year-olds, twelve-- 13-year-olds go for photos with their former prime minister. Yes, we can talk about absurdity at all, but let's admit it's investigative journalism. If the Czech Television has enough money and has enough space for it, it has no other subjects, so be it, it is not for us to criticize it. [[12.10 hours]] It is hard to explain, however, that at the same time as he spins such absurdities, he does not work with material that lies there for two years, which is pre-recorded and is spoken of throughout Prague. It is excluded that those who decide what will or will not be released should not know what is being interpreted after Prague. So they wouldn't have information from former detectives who said so. So they don't know what STAN's former colleague Mrs. Marvanová says. Yet it lay on the ice, even though the last three or four months the name Hlubuček has been tilting in all the media. And if there are any of the other viewers who may be looking at us who doubt that this was the case, then I will just mention a few sentences that former Minister Gazdík made when he made an angry phone call to the News List for another STAN affair, and I would say, a much more banal affair asking the editor: What on earth are you doing to us, Mr. Editor? What on earth are you doing to us, Mr. Editor? And when the editor, who is definitely not in the STAN fan club, replied that he's only doing his job, the answer was, well, we're not on the same side. - Maybe even this would be worth explaining to us on Czech TV if there were any similar phone calls. But what I'm saying is... It is not our place to judge whether anyone is guilty or not. That's what the police really have to decide. It's quite possible that a number of those media screams and those media attractions, the carnivals that came out of it may not be confirmed after all. All the more so should those who are directly involved. That is why we have called this meeting, and that is why we want this to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u15	Thank you very much. The next enrollment is Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My performance will be quite short. Anyway, I have a need to put what we're dealing with today in a context. Every community, because it is a community of people, carries with it a certain degree of error. And every political party or movement that has been in politics for a long time, so unfortunately, although I am not pleased, there are certain names that have historically had a problem with the law. And it doesn't make anybody happy either from the political side or from the movement, except us. That is true, but it also applies to the YES movement, so to speak. I will only return briefly to the past when the STAN movement is being scandalized. So whoever got off first here is the defendant - the defendant - the chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš. Mr President, the police have found, through Mr President, that you have such a big conflict with the law that they have charged you, given it to the prosecutor, and you will go to trial. That means if anyone should step down, you should be the first. When you say that the time is different, that the resignation of Minister Gazdík is not enough, I say here that, through Mr President, you should be the first. Because you were the one who co-created the mob-privatization '90s. Your friend Pitr and others, this is your world that you came from, since we're talking about the past. Your Home Secretary Jan Hamáček and his famous trip to Moscow - then you made a dead bug, you didn't see, you didn't remember, you didn't have the political courage or managerial talent to intervene in that case. If you were on the same subway, I'd understand. But all you can do is lie live, manipulate and cowardly run from responsibility. If you act like a man, I understand. I am still speaking through the President. But you're criticizing something that you've been a part of yourself, and another thing will be decided by the court. So much for me towards you. Take the same subway because otherwise you're acting like a coward and an alibi.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u17	Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be next in the ranking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u18	Dear Vice-President, Dear Minister, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues. My previous speakers, whether Andrej Babiš, Alena Schillerová, Karel Havlíček, summarized the kauza or cases of the STAN movement. Everyone else could appear if the agenda for today's meeting had been approved. The STAN movement, in which the current Chairman of the STAN movement and the current Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan are in charge. So much has been said, and I would still have two planes to go back to, because I would like to respond to the statement by the Minister of the Interior in particular, who was talking about the fact that the police are currently working at last without political influence. So I would like him to prove it to me in some way, because I am convinced that former Mr. Police President Jan Švejdar worked very well and responsibly. I'd like to remind you of what he said to the media a few months ago. "I couldn't work with someone who doesn't appreciate your work and who's lying to you." That's what former police president Jan Švejdar said. Of course, from my position, I also try to point out some things in the Ministry of the Interior, whether it is that I opened up a matter in February regarding the merger of police districts. I also learned today that I am not telling the truth, that I am lying, that there is no merging of police precincts. When you look in the field today, some mayors write directly a petition saying that they do not agree with this merger already in connection with the Ukrainian refugee crisis. At the same time, I have pointed out many times that we do not have a strategy to address the refugee crisis, especially with the fact that practically the mayors, the authorities do not know who is in their territory, what people are educated, what professions are, and what these important data are. At first I was also told that this was not the case, after a few months we learned that we did not really have these data and we probably won't have it for a long time. And now to the two planes that I'd like to open here. I have worked at the Ministry of the Interior in the past as Deputy Minister of Public Administration, of course I am very close to the mayors and I know that the Minister of the Interior has access to classified information from his duties. And in the current situation, we certainly don't have the guarantees that this information can't go any further. On the Security Committee, the Minister of the Interior presented to us the reform of the police and, at the same time, the police president, when it was introduced, it was clearly stated that he agreed to this reform concerning the NCOZ department and the creation of a new department, so he had to sign it and approve it. If he does not sign and approve, such reform will not take place. [[12.20 hours]] So I'd like to open up here, what guarantee do we have that the Home Secretary is really aware of the seriousness of the information, when, of course, he's always saying that after all these cases, he should continue to be Home Secretary? Of course, there are his coalition colleagues who also say don't back down. And so at this point, I would like to propose one solution that I said at the outset, and that is that he has access to the classified information. I think it would certainly - I'm not saying that it will solve the problem, but it would, in its own way, as they say, clear some air, that I would ask the Home Secretary to request security clearance from the National Security Office. I think it wouldn't be a problem for the Home Secretary, and it would certainly be a solution, because if you're getting security clearance, the National Security Bureau is looking at you a few years back, like ten years back, so I'm sure that all the suspicions that the Home Secretary here was talking about, or related to his or her concern or this case, I think that would be a solution. I'm sure he won't solve this case, that's for sure true, but I'm curious myself how the Home Secretary will stand up to this and whether he will request this security clearance. Of course, the second plane is, as I said, so I'm the former mayor, and a number of mayors are turning to me at the moment, that the case is, of course, written on their good name, that citizens are coming to see them, if they are connected to this case, or the STAN movement. At this point, I have noticed that at the end of July, the STAN movement will have its own House, where it will vote for new leadership, and so I would like to open up what some mayors are looking at me with at the moment and at the same time inform me that they are calling for this House to be considered by the President of the STAN Vít Rakušan to rename this political party, because many people view STAN as mayors, and we all know that when we look at all the research, the mayors always enjoy the greatest trust of citizens, they always have the best result compared to others. So I think that this too is a question that is a very important and important challenge that the STAN movement could address. I really believe that it is necessary to solve this problem. Otherwise, of course, this government will be forever associated with corruption and it will be unfair to other political parties involved. But it's their choice, they're the ones who decided to keep living with the mayors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u19	So, before I give the floor to the President, I'll make two more apologies. Mrs Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš apologizes from 12.18 to 14.00 or from 14.00 then for work reasons, and Minister of Culture Baxa apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Madame Pekarová Adamová has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many, so only a few brief facts. As far as this case and the TOP 09 are concerned, only when some, according to the media, according to the information reported to be from the investigation file, the case only touched our members, so we immediately assumed responsibility. That is, the political plane of the matter was that whoever just went there - and I want to point out that they are not even under investigation, let alone the charges - so they ended or were taken away. This is a clear draw of political responsibility. Let the police act. Of course, we also want the matter to be examined as soon as possible, so that all the contexts of it are examined and those who have committed crimes so that they are also punished quite rightly as it should be. However, when we hear from some here that it is a case of incredible proportions, it is made up of something that has not only the local Prague level, but the national level, so let's also say the facts that are often withheld here by these speakers. Through the President to the Member, the defendant, Mr Babiš, even though he is not here: So not only sweep your own threshold, but maybe rinse your mouth with disinfectant. Because if you guys were to take the same responsibility in your party that just because someone met someone who was accused, you could just drop it in your club because you're the defendant and all your MPs are meeting you. So disband the club of the ANO movement in such a case if you want the same meter on all of them. By the way, once again, through the President, you have also opened up the topic of the nineties, I am 100% sure that I have never had contact with people like the Krejčíř, Pitr, Mrázek. Can you guarantee the same? If I were you, I'd probably keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u21	With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have such a brief contribution, but when the President of the Chamber of Deputies spoke here on the matter of how clean the TOP 09 is, how they have cleansed themselves and all those who have somehow been associated with this case have drawn some responsibility from it, I will read one more thing here, Madam President. The accused Pavel Dovhomilja says that MEP TOP 09 Jiří Pospíšil and Petr Hlubuček of STAN stood at the very birth of the organized criminal group. Witnesses describe Jiří Pospíšil's meetings with Michal Redl and their holiday together in Italy. Quote from server Seznam.cz. So, why don't you take another look at the way you have it on your side? Now, let me appeal to you, fellow Members, and ask you to approve the agenda for today's meeting. And I'll tell you why. If we don't approve the agenda for today's meeting, this meeting is over, and in fact, only people with priority rights could speak. If we approve the agenda for this meeting, we can continue this discussion and representatives and parliamentary committees or some other important parliamentary institutions may speak. That's one thing. The second thing is that we would like to propose to the SPD on this matter to the STAN movement, and I will explain why. Firstly, in the last parliamentary term, the committee of inquiry was here on very important cases, and I do not question their importance at all. For example, it was the river Bečva and the death of fish. But you do understand that the proliferation of crime into government and among constitutional officials is even more significant and important than the Bečva River, although I do not question the Bečva River and I am glad that the investigation committee was and that we have done everything we could to do. I say, let's re-create the investigation committee, let's talk about what actually happened, if what happened doesn't have deeper causes that we should look for somewhere further, because actually the STAN movement was actually created as a movement that lobbyically tried to make a legitimate, transparent and correct fundraising for municipalities and cities. [[12.30 hours]] And I just think that even those governments, after what we've just seen and heard, should control the Supreme Audit Office, some authority. Administrations control, self-government is controlled only by opposition representatives. That's important, but I'm sure they can't see into everything. And I think that, for example, the outcome of that committee of inquiry would also be that we would initiate an amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, which he could control, and I think he should control self-government after this thing, that is, municipalities and cities, what is going on there at all. We don't really know. So I appeal to you to approve the agenda for this meeting so that we can continue our negotiations and occasionally make our proposals. You may also have some suggestions. We'd like to propose an investigation committee for the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u23	Well, thank you. Anyone else checking in? Madam President of the YES movement, the club of the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to respond so briefly to a number of things that have been said here. Well, Minister Rakušan, I'll take the liberty of responding to your performance, if you don't mind. Thank you for being here. What kind of relationships are you talking about that accused gentleman with the people you were suggesting from the YES movement? Where did you get this information? When you say you don't have information from living files. You said that repeatedly in public space. You repeated it, if I recall correctly, today. So don't be mad at me, then you're contradicting each other. On the one hand, you're saying that it's clear evidence that this is happening transparently, without addiction and so on. Then you're talking about some ties to people, maybe. I assume that if you have such information so long, long ago you will apply it in some way and maybe initiate other criminal reports and so on. But what you said here is such a poisonous saliva. But it feels like a lawyer to me, and now I'm speaking as a lawyer, very strangely, when you're just talking about some kind of connection, like you have the information. Now let's see one more thing. You're saying, on the one hand, that law enforcement agencies that are in the jurisdiction of the court are all the things I agree with. But on the other hand, you just get off and show here on the roof of the Ministry of the Interior a calendar with the beginning of the trial with the chairman of our movement. Well, here's some more facts. The police, no doubt, had to, when we settled the time, investigate the case, and finally I think I read it in public space, that it took a long time, that is, logically, to investigate it for your predecessor. That means Hamáček's former Home Secretary. But I didn't notice a single leak in the media from that time. He wasn't the only one. I don't remember reading about it. If so, enlighten me, I don't remember. You became Home Secretary, and within two months, we read about it on this server over there, which I'm not going to see here, over there in Diary N, over there, over there, and so on. And I think it's hard to blame for attorneys, as I read in one statement, because at that time, there were still no acts in their presence. That means there's been leaks in your ministry. Well, I suppose you've already initiated the GIBS, and it's already being saved. Because these are things that shouldn't be happening. Just a little detail about Vice-President Kovářová's performance. She's not a lawyer, so I don't mean any harm. I don't know who wrote her that speech, but it is necessary not to confuse two concepts, namely the concept of collective guilt and the concept of criminal liability of a legal person, which is actually already part of valid and effective legislation in the Czech Republic. It's just a detail, I don't want it at all, I don't mean it personally. Now, let me do one more thing. Since I'm here, it sounded out of your mouth, I understand from the mouth of other five-wheelers that you're not going to approve today's program. It is a great pity, because I think that many of my colleagues might have been able to speak on the basis of your poisonous saliva, which you might have specified, and they could have defended themselves and they could have simply defended themselves and they could have spoken here by Prague's representatives, who are Members at the same time, and others that I have already named. Unfortunately, that's not how they're gonna get the chance. And I think it's very wrong. The YES movement was ready, he has a resolution prepared, provided that you would reconsider and approve the agenda for today's meeting. I will introduce you to this resolution, which we would have proposed for approval if it had been, perhaps it would still have been, to the approval of the meeting. Although I don't think it's gonna come down to your statement. The resolution was as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic First, he notes that the Dosimeter corruption case significantly undermines the credibility of at least one of the government parties, the STAN movement, and damages the good name of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Second, he notes that there is no guarantee that there will be no attempt to influence the authorities involved in criminal proceedings by the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, who is also Chairman of the STAN movement, a legal person who can be examined under the Law on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons in connection with the Dozimeter case. Thirdly, he calls on the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, to draw political responsibility, when he, as Chairman of the STAN movement, has for many months not dealt with suggestions pointing to possible corruption negotiations, and has immediately resigned. Fourthly, he asks Prime Minister Petr Fiala not to appoint the President of the Republic as a nominator of the STAN movement if Vít Rakušan does not resign as Minister of the Interior. Finally, allow me to take such a small sigh and quote by Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, who said: Don't be afraid or steal. Unfortunately, some at STAN have adapted it to not being afraid and stealing. Well, given that you have clearly signaled here and have expressed, specifically, your other colleagues indirectly, that you do not intend to approve the agenda for this meeting, we need to discuss what to do next, and I am taking a break at the ANO club meeting, on behalf of the YES movement, until 13:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u25	Madam President, I misunderstood. By 1:30? I still have the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan. Can he get out again? We'll make a deal, so the break will be announced after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, through you to President Schillerová. I've had to go into heuristics for a while now, which means gathering information so you wouldn't suspect me of any leaks from the files. First of all, I have to stand up for the cops. What you said here is a very serious accusation. I don't have any information that information leaked from the files sooner or later than the moment the lawyers had it in their hands. If you have such information, please provide it to me or, if necessary, you have the right to contact the competent authorities yourself to examine the matter. On the other hand, I feel that the police have worked very professionally in this matter and there have been no leaks from anywhere other than lawyers. [[12.40 hours]] And then you asked me where I got the information about the fact that the defendant, Dovhomilja, was also associating with the MPs -- well, I didn't name them until then, so now I'm calling to make it clear -- even with the members of the ANO movement. [[Member Schiller of the post: I did not name it.]] So here we have an article not only from Diary N about two years old, but here we have a direct reference to the press conference in the Chamber of Deputies, the press conference of Mr Robert Králíček and colleague Kořanová to the effective use of open source in the digitalisation of the state, performed by Pavel Dovhomilja, Tomáš Knížek. So that's the first information I have here. I wasn't at the press conference, I don't know if it happened. Secondly, I would like to say that this has already been reported by Diary N. No, here was the question of President Schillerová, where I have information about contacts with the accused, with some members of the ANO movement. I'm just answering it without pushing anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-030-01-000-000.u27	So I ask my colleagues not to shout in the hall and possibly resolve contact outside the meeting room. Now there was a procedural proposal, respectively. the President's request for a break by 13.30. [[Mrs Schiller states from the point of view that this was not a procedural proposal]] I just want to point out that the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies starts at 13.30. Even with this knowledge that we will not be able to vote on the program, do you take this break? Just so we're clear. [[Mrs Schiller agrees.]] Okay. I therefore declare a break and remind you that the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 13.30. I'll meet you here at 1:30.
