ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (veterinary Act), as amended, and other related Laws /German Printing 72/ - Third Reading [[12.30 hours]] I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 72/3, which was delivered on 17 June 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 72/4. I ask the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate the Government's amendment to Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care. The main objective of the draft act is to respond to Regulation 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on animal diseases and to amend and repeal certain animal health acts which have been effective since 21 April last year. This Regulation builds on the existing European legislation on animal health and constitutes a general legal framework which will be progressively completed by the adoption of implementing regulations. Another aim of the bill is to complete the implementation of the regulation on official controls, which was the subject of the last amendment to the veterinary law. The draft law also complements the legislation of the Central Register of Dogs in addition to the adaptation of those Regulations and lays down the related obligations of dog breeders and private veterinarians. Furthermore, it repeals the obligation of the breeder keeping the hives without delay after the detection of the mortality of the hives at the sites of the hives to report mortality above the established limit of the regional veterinary administration and the obligation to require a veterinary certificate to move the hives outside the territory of the region, which will contribute to the reduction of administrative burden. The draft law also includes, for example, an amendment to the breeding law, which takes into account the requirements of Union regulations. The draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies at its 8th meeting on 5 May this year, and it recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted, which have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, are in line with the concept of the petitioner, will contribute to improving the Government's bill, so I agree with them. In the second reading of the Government Bill, which took place on 17 June of this year, the following amendments were applied: First, a Member of Karel Smetana, who is concerned with the state veterinary supervision, who should also be newly granted an inspector for the protection of animals against cruelty, who will be a person with a higher education in a given field who has a specialization education and, in the case of a mandate to exercise supervision under the Law for the protection of animals against cruelty and a certificate of competence. We agree with this amendment. Secondly, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek's amendment to the list of subjects that will have access to the information system Central registration of dogs. We agree with this amendment. Thirdly, the amendment by Members Josef Kott and David Pražák concerning the extension of the number restrictions on domestic slaughter of bovine animals to bovine animals under 12 months of age. We agree with this amendment. Fourthly, Mr Petr Bendl's amendments, which propose, first, a change in the definition of shelter and an adjustment to ensuring the capture of stray and abandoned animals, also a partial modification within the information system. Central record of dogs, which we prefer to accept Mr Bělobrádek's proposal. Fifthly, Mr Petr Bendl's amendment, which in the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, proposes to abolish the exemption from the ban on tail reduction in sheep, for hygienic and preventive reasons. We take a neutral position on this amendment. For the sixth amendment by Mr Petr Bendl concerning the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. Specifically, the elimination of the possibility of castration of male animals under eight weeks of age in bovine, ovine, caprine or rabbit without anaesthesia. We agree with this amendment. The Agricultural Committee as a guarantee committee discussed the draft law at its 10th meeting on 21 June of this year and adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic vote in third reading on the draft law in the proposed order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate to which I am registering three applications. Mr. David Pražák will be the first to speak, and Mr. Josef Kott will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u4	Good afternoon, Minister, Madam Secretary. The O.R. has cleared out, but I don't think we're going to have long, and we're going to vote on the amendments soon. I would like to thank the Ministry, as before, for organic farming. So even though it did come out, it probably seemed like - I don't know if we should do it, because when you say thank you, you get scolded. But I would like to thank you for the amendment to the veterinary law, which was already from the previous parliamentary term. There's stuff in there with the bees I'd like to mention here. He said it there in one sentence, but I would also like it to fall here, that it is proposed to abolish the obligation of the breeder who keeps the hives, immediately after the detection of the mortality of the hives at the site report mortality above the limit laid down by the implementing legislation. I think it's a practical thing, once again, a thing of practice that was in the original version, but it absolutely didn't happen anywhere with any justification. Reports of excess mortality have not contributed to the detection of outbreaks of dangerous diseases. That's what we got from the State Veterinary Administration. So I'm glad to see that the administrative burden of the little one is eased. I would also like to thank both the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Veterinary Administration and the Ministry of the Interior, as I said at the second reading. Because my colleague Bělobrádek - I don't know if he's going to comment on it or not. As we had practical questions on the agricultural committee about what is going to happen, if a small town or village dog caught up with a chip, the chip would be read, but no one in the central register would get into it, so according to the original proposal, only the veterinarian would get into it. On the basis of such a work platform, the Ministry of the Interior actually said that there is no problem in making the information system The central record of dogs was not only for these designated groups of veterinary surgeons and the State Veterinary Administration, but to be made available to public authorities, which are municipalities. So that someone in that village could look into the system, find out who's missing the dog, and actually inform the owner. Originally, it seemed impossible, but it can be done without any expensive funds. I think the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians, who will actually be the operator of the information system from Central Dog Records, will deal with it. As the President told us, the switch from the current system to the new one after approval will be accompanied by certain problems, complications, but there will be some time to fine-tune it. [[12.40 hours]] There's probably gonna be the biggest problem with the records or the addresses of the owners, because these days they're putting in addresses that aren't according to their ID, they're any addresses. And somewhere in the family, they have more of those dogs registered at one address, even if they're somewhere else. So it's gonna be a little bit of a problem that's gonna have to work out. At the same time, I think that even private veterinarians will be a little bit uncomfortable with the fact that they will actually have to register the vaccinations, re-occurrences and other important information into the system. The way I'm doing it from practice, and we talked about it last time, so so far, a bunch of veterinarians don't even know that they should be doing and registering something like that from January 1st. I think it's all gonna be... they're gonna keep, they're gonna get paid. But that's just gonna be in the system. I think it will lead to what was actually the goal of the previous government amendment in the last parliamentary term, when we had fun or wanted to prevent the breeding and abuse of dogs and animals. Then we have an amendment which will justify or reminiscent of Mr Kott, and I will not comment on it. And I would like to thank once again for bringing this amendment to a successful end and ask for the support of the amendments, because we, as the opposition, will also vote in favour of the amendments that have been there, with one exception, I think, which are also an exception from colleagues from the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Josef Kott will be next in the debate, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I think I'll start where my colleague left off. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Veterinary Administration for the fact that we were able to prepare together an amendment which corresponds to the existing legislation, and we were able to adapt the terminology that we did not fully manage in the first attempt. Since our amendment is very simple and it is a regulation of domestic slaughters in bovine animals under 72 months of age, I would like to say that we... or I think that we will be able to control the quality of the meat that comes to Czech consumers. And since I am convinced that we have sufficient capacity within certified slaughters, that we will be under control through veterinary supervision and these slaughters, which, as it turns out, have increased significantly in some places, and it was just cattle under 72 months of age. So I'm going to say that we've managed to make sure that the meat that's made, I think, as we talked about in the previous amendment to the law, more or less in the ecological regime, because most of the cattle are herded, or the meat cattle that's beaten at home are herded, and they're actually made to be more or less, if it's not declared in bioquality, so that we can get it to where we want it to be, as part of the control. That's one thing. The second thing is that I would also like to thank you for the fact that we had the opportunity to actually solve domestic slaughters outside the slaughterhouse as such, or we were allowed to actually look at the risks and advantages that such slaughter represents. And I think that in the future it is definitely something that needs to be worked on, but which, to some extent, in some cases, is the way that may be the one that some breeders will go. So thanks again for the fact that we have managed to prepare the amendment, that we have found a consensus across the agricultural committee. And I would like to ask you, the House of Honor, to support this amendment of ours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Petr Bendl is now duly signed in and Mr Karel Tureček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this material, which we are actually amending in a relatively short period of time, precisely because, as the Chamber of Deputies approved it in the last parliamentary term, it was not particularly perfect in the area of controlling the functioning of the multiplication plants, because there were ways to circumvent the law. With this amendment of the law, I believe that the holes in the ship will be clogged so that the organizers of the multiplication plants really do not stand a chance anymore and that the state administration has a perfect overview of the fact that there is no abuse of dogs in the Czech Republic and that the multiplication plants will be cut off by a tip. For this he certainly deserves, as my previous speakers said, to thank the Ministry and the rapporteur, because Pavel Bělobrádek worked a lot of time on this. And of course, the Ministry of the Interior, without which we would probably not have moved, because it was getting to the stage that either it would be extremely expensive, and then it couldn't be the Veterinary Chamber and it would be a massive, large record that would cost hundreds of millions of crowns, and thanks to the Ministry of the Interior, it was able to find an option that would be functional and relatively cheap, even if it didn't cost a little bit. But I think that the system and, above all, the certainty that it will not occur... or the breeding of dogs in the Czech Republic will be under greater control, is worth it. The slaughter on the farm, my previous speaker here said, was our ambition, because it didn't work out in the last parliamentary term. I don't know, we had the ambition to talk more about defeat in the pastures, so it hasn't, yet, hopefully. But in the interest of breeding suckler cows, or if you want meat cattle, there is certainly no system, or there is no system where - and a slaughterhouse we cannot have in every village, in every city. So in their interest, so that she doesn't often have to be very traumatically loaded into cars, taken to the slaughterhouse, because the animals carry it very mentally. It is known not only on the quality of production after, but also, of course, on the condition of the animal, because they suspect that something unfair is happening, and they have no idea that it is going - or they suspect that it is going to die or something like that. And if we can find a way to control the veterinary administration of slaughtering cattle on individual farms so that they do not have to suffer the transport so that the animals do not suffer, it is only good. In the end, the law is not regulated in this spirit, because it is sufficient for sublegal standards. And the State Veterinary Administration has promised, and I believe it will keep it, that it will do enough popularization and enough information among the agricultural public, what they need to do in order to defeat cattle on farms, because I think it's in everyone's interest. I thank you for that, even if we didn't have to make any legal adjustments. [[12.50 hours]] If I move on to those... I would like to move on to individual amendments, or at least to the disputed ones, because I thank the opposition for being able to find consensus, and I promise here at least for us that we will support the proposals that have been passed by the agricultural committee, knowing that there are also amendments from the opposition. I think we've been following professional topics, so I'm sure we'll support the proposals. Finally, I did not activate the amendment concerning the veterinary law which I originally filed, so after the debate here in the Chamber of Deputies, I understood that not everyone knows exactly what we were talking about. My point is, in the last amendment to the Veterinary Act, we banned filmmakers from using animals to shoot in film production. And I think it's not quite right, I believe that even people who engage in animals and are interested in not hurting animals on the one hand, and on the other hand, if we restrict film production in this spirit, we are actually closing the door for promoting animal protection itself. So we had in the future, if we were to open it up in the law of abuse, the law against abuse, so that we could talk about the subject, because we just got out of the law... I think we spilled a little bit with the bathtub and the baby and that we could sensitively find some form to enable filmmakers to work with animals so that we can also benefit from the protection of animals as a whole. So it remains at least from my point of view, I say for myself, it's my manko, because I think it would be good if we found some form of support after all. Then I'd mention the cutback of the tails. The fact that I myself am a sheep farmer, but I know much more important sheep farmers who have been breeding for decades, and they all confirm to me that the fact that we forbade the purchase of tails in the last amendment does cause dramatic problems in breeding, hygienic, as it often occurs that the animals catch various serious diseases, which they then painfully die from, did not say that it is a problem even when they are cut off. But I'm particularly concerned with the health and hygiene problems that have to do with it. And I'm sure this little adjustment, which I'm not going to say to the lamb at all on my life, isn't going to feel, because it has to apply, the rubber band, within seven days of birth, and then the whole life actually helps breeders to adjust the hygiene of the lives of individual adult sheep. I beg you very much to support this amendment. Trust me, he'll appreciate it. If you talk to the breeders, they'll tell you how much pain it is when the fly lays eggs in the back of the sheep and then she dies on it. This is simply wrong and we can prevent and increase the quality of life of the animal in a simple way, almost painless way. And then two amendments, which were debatable, which are probably not completely fatal, and I will not be unhappy if they fail, but I want to say a few words about it. First of all, the amendment E1 - extending the definition of shelter. The current text is that the shelter is - valid version of § 3 letter. jj) - is an animal shelter provided by temporary care to stray and abandoned animals. The Ministry of Agriculture proposes a version: an animal shelter that provides temporary care to stray and abandoned animals or abused animals. I have suggested adding the word "delayed" to the fact that the explanatory note to point 8 of the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture states: "It is also proposed to add to the definition of animal shelter that it is a facility that provides care for abused animals, as shelters normally carry out this activity. " The shelters, however, also normally take care of animals postponed, which the original owners want to dispose of for various reasons, and hand them over to shelters. These animals, given the definition in the Animal Protection Act, cannot be considered abandoned. There are even facilities that specialize in the care of such animals. And even if animals are kept in significant quantities, they are avoided by a gap in the legal obligations - registration of shelter, professional competence, record management, publication of animals - although they otherwise fulfil all the characteristics of the shelter. Therefore, I suggest that these delayed animals also be added to the definition of shelter. At the same time, it is necessary to distinguish the conduct of individuals who take care of such individual animals randomly from interest groups that carry out this activity continuously and completely systematically. Citizen who, with the knowledge of the village, cares for individual animal found, so § 1058 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. Act No. 1 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll., which takes care of an animal put away from the original owner or cares for an animal of another person who is temporarily unfit to care for them, cares for the abused animal entrusted to him by the administrative authority, which is referred to in Section 28b para. 4 of Act 246/1992 Coll., logically is not a shelter and should be viewed as a common breeder. The amendment of this paragraph may have an impact on the current decree on shelters, and it would be good if it were approved in a version that affects all categories of animals found in shelters. So much for my explanation, at least for the memory of things to come, recorded from the Chamber of Deputies meeting. To that end, I propose that point E3 be added: for the current amendment point 121, a new amendment point 122, as amended by § 46 (b) is added. (d) the words 'to ensure the capture of stray and abandoned animals by a person competent' shall be added before the words 'to pay the costs' and the points shall be numbered. I'll explain. Current valid version of § 46, Municipality - letter. (d) - shall cover the costs associated with the capture and isolation of the caught animal in accordance with § 42, if its breeder is not known. The amended text reads as follows: (d) ensure the capture of strays - the municipality thus - ensures the capture of stray and abandoned animals by a person competent, pays the costs associated with the capture and isolation of the captured animal in accordance with § 42, unless its breeder is known. The proposed change does not bring new obligations and, as such, does not entail financial, administrative or other effects compared to the current situation. It is merely a clarification of the role of municipalities in the care of animals following further legislation already in force. The capture of animals by a person without competence and permission to carry out this activity would be, on the one hand, a violation of the law affecting the State Veterinary Administration, but may also cause many complications. For example, if an animal had injured an employee of a municipal authority without eligibility, it would not be entitled to compensation for an accident at work. Incorrect manipulation of the animal could result in abuse or injury. The owner of the animal could claim the payment of his treatment for the person who caused it and so on. The state of affairs is already regulated by a number of provisions in several applicable laws. However, he is quite inconspicuous. [[13.00 hours]] The capture of stray and abandoned animals in the public interest or in order to protect human and animal health is carried out at the request of the municipality, the Police of the Czech Republic or the municipal police and in cooperation with them, § 42 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Act 166/1999 Coll. At the same time, it is stipulated that the municipality pays the costs associated with the capture of the animal in cases where its owner is not known, that is § 46 letter. (d) Act 166/1999 Coll. The Civil Code regulates the obligation of the animal to be found in the event that it cannot be known to whom the animal is to be returned by notifying the founder of the finding without undue delay to the municipality, § 1058 para. 1 Act 89/2012 Coll. The municipality is then obliged to announce the finding and also decides how it will be handled. At the same time, the capture of stray and abandoned animals by a person competent in Section 13b of Act 246/1999 Coll. in relation to measures which the municipality may implement in the control of populations of stray and abandoned animals. So much for the amendments, I am sorry that I may have been a little longer, but I am glad that I have the opportunity to comment on these proposals, which the agricultural committee has not supported with its resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u9	Thank you. We will continue to discuss this point, there were two factual points. First, Mr Josef Kott will appear, then Mrs Nina Nováková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On the contrary, we are pleased that our colleague Petr Bendl has explained, explained and presented to us perhaps in more detail than we had the opportunity on the agricultural committee. I just want to say that we didn't want to get an analysis, but a certain issue concerning the purchase of tails in goats and sheep. Indeed, these breeders are calling for a significant problem, whether it is immediately or in the future, as a colleague has already said about the slaughtering, so I do not want to say that we have re-evaluated our position, but to a certain extent, and I believe that the majority of the members of the ANO Members will support this amendment tabled by the colleague. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, therefore, Mrs Nina Nováková's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a small comment on what Mr Bendl was talking about earlier, that was an amendment which he finally decided not to sign up for. It concerned the possibility of training animals, so-called wild animals, and their use then, for example, when making films. We talked a moment ago about the fact that filmmaking is not a negligible item in both cultural and economic terms. And although I am not a member of the agricultural committee, I would like to make two more comments. As part of my work on a family policy strategy for the Central Bohemia Region, I was looking for - and in the context of the covido situation, I was looking together with the other cheapest ways and the most affordable ways for the whole family to spend their free time. That's why I went around all the zoos in Central Bohemia and talked to their owners, and so on, and they said what impact - that they expect a very unfortunate impact on the fact that not only is the ban on training animals but also the ban on breeding. And I believe that this will, I hope, be part of the next meeting, as Mr Bendl mentioned. And the third connection is - we are going to discuss the college law now, and the issue of education is also part of this law. There was the term welfare of animals. And I am one of those who are convinced just after consulting the zoo owners that their mental activation and movement activation are part of the welfare of animals. So if the training takes place in accordance with their physiological possibilities -- that's okay. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But I hope it will be a negotiation that will be the subject of the Animal Protection Act against animal cruelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u13	Mr Karel Tureček, who is currently recently enrolled in the debate, will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I think there have been a lot of appropriate speakers here. I would like to express my position, the official position of the club YES, on individual amendments and on the draft law as a whole. As regards the amendments adopted by the Guarantee Committee, by the Agricultural Committee, which are referred to as A1 to A60, these are amendments which have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, the proposal was submitted by Mr Smetana on the Agricultural Committee. These amendments include technical amendments in particular, it is a response to changes in European legislation, the issue of chipping, the performance of private veterinarians in practice, dog breeders and their obligations, the implementation of amendments points, the adjustment of final provisions. In this respect, in line with the recommendation made by the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee club YES, these amendments listed under the designation A1 to A60 will support positively by voting. I would also like to comment on Mr Smetana's amendments to B1 through B6. A colleague proposes that the exercise of State veterinary supervision be made possible to persons who are not official veterinarians or veterinary inspectors. It is simply an issue that is quite serious from the point of view of veterinary practice today. I can only confirm that we also take a positive position on these amendments and therefore support them. Furthermore, these are the amendments made by my fellow rapporteur, Mr Belbrádka, referred to in letter C. It's an information system issue. The central record of dogs that it will not be publicly accessible, but it is proposed that a public authority should have access to it in order to consult it in relation to the exercise of its competence. In this regard, we will also support this amendment under point C. Then it is my colleague Kott's amendment referred to under letter D, a proposal that limits domestic slaughter of bovine animals under 72 months to a maximum of three pieces per year. Of course, in this regard, this amendment has our support. Then these are the amendments by Mrs Bendl, where we will, of course, stick to some sort of agricultural committee resolution, which means that, in the case of Amendment E1 and E3, the club will not support these proposals, we will take a negative position on them. Is this addition to the definition of animal shelter and refinement of the role of municipalities in animal care following other bad (?) legislative amendments. On the contrary, with Amendment E2, which allows municipalities to consult the dog register, and Amendment E5 - it is proposed that the possibility of castration of males under 8 weeks of age in cattle, sheep, goats or rabbits be omitted - we have a positive opinion there. At the same time, we will have a positive opinion at the end of the day, where the agricultural committee has not adopted an opinion on Amendment E4, which is the issue of tail-picking. So much for the amendments, so much for the official position of the club YES. And, of course, as a whole, we will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u15	Thank you, too. The rapporteur will now speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I am glad that we have finally reached a consensus. We will certainly support the opposition's amendments, which are reasonable and which have finally been refined. I would also appreciate the fact that the YES movement re-evaluated the position on the amendment by Petr Bendl E4, where there was a neutral position. I can say that it really makes sense from the point of view of veterinary care and zoo hygiene, and it certainly makes an immeasurably logical and more positive approach for animal well-being than leaving the buying as forbidden. Only to my amendment, which is referred to as point C. There was an agreement between the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians, we explained it with the Ministry of Agriculture, with the Ministry of the Interior, so I want to thank both the ministries and the Chamber of Veterinary Doctors that we met, that we explained these things so that the register had real access to the municipal office. And that makes a lot of sense, because then, if the animal is identified, then we can move on with this. Otherwise, I assume that private veterinarians will be clearly informed through both the State Veterinary Administration of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Veterinary Physicians, so that they will know what is going on and the identification will therefore be much easier. So much for me, then, of course, I'll turn myself in as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u17	Thank you, I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? I do not see any application in this case ending the debate and I ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor? Minister, do you want the final word? [[No.]] Neither does the rapporteur. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. And I am asking the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to present the amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I always remind you what's going on. In fact, the various amendments, apart from A1 to A60, were presented in very detail, which is an amendment to the Agricultural Committee, which is quite extensive. So I suggest we vote as approved by the guarantee committee. This means, firstly, that we vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments - but they have not been loaded. So, in that case, we would start with Mr Smetana's amendment to B1 to B6, en bloc with one vote. In the event that this is the case, the A52 that are in conflict cannot be voted. Then we would vote on Mr Bělobrádek's amendment, which is under letter C. Here, in the event of the adoption of this amendment, Amendment A9 which is in conflict cannot be voted. And in the event of the adoption of the amendment under letter C, the E2 which are in conflict cannot be voted. It is Mr Bendl's amendment, on which there is a positive position, but this Amendment C makes it clear. Then we would vote on the amendment of the Agricultural Committee A1 to A6 en bloc with one vote that -- sorry, until A60 -- if the previous ones were approved, that is to say, B1 to B6 and C, we would no longer vote on the A9. [[President: A60.]] And we wouldn't vote A52, which is unvoteable if B5 is accepted. Then we would proceed by voting on Mr Kott's amendment under letter D, then on Mr Bendl E1, on Amendment E2, unless points C or A9 are approved. Then Mr Bendl's amendment E3 would be, Mr Bendl's amendment E4 to Mr Bendl, Mr E5 to Mr Bendl's amendment and then to the Act as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u19	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm asking if there's any proposal to modify or change the proposed procedure? I don't see any suggestion, so first I'm going to check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. And I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the procedure, as proposed by the rapporteur, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 46, 128 Members and Members registered, for proposal 127. The procedure has been proposed, and I will ask you, Mr rapporteur, to conduct us through this procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u20	Thank you, Mr President. We would now vote on the amendment by Mr Smetana B1 to B6 en bloc by one vote. Basically, this is primarily about the possibility that state veterinary supervision may not only be carried out by official veterinarians, but by people who will be trained in higher education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u21	Thank you. Committee opinion? [[Positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] And I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 47, registered 130 Members and Members, for 130. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u22	Another amendment is the amendment by Mr Belbrádka, letter C, which regulates the registration of dogs so that public authorities can access it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u23	Thank you. Committee opinion? [[Positive.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 48; 130 Members and Members are registered for proposal 130. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u24	Furthermore, we would vote on the amendment of the Agricultural Committee A1 to A60 en bloc with one vote that the A9 is unvoted because Amendment C has been adopted and the A52 is unvoted because Amendment B5 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u25	Yes, it is. The position of the guarantee committee? [[Positive.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 49, 130 Members and Members signed up for proposal 132. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u26	We will also vote on Mr Kott's amendment to letter D, which concerns the reduction of domestic slaughters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u27	Committee opinion? [[Positive.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 50, 132 Members and Members signed up for proposal 131. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u28	We will vote on Mr Bendl's amendment to the definition of shelter and the addition of abandoned animals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u29	Committee opinion? [[Negative.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 51, 134 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 26, against 55. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u30	Given that Amendment C has been adopted, Mr Bendl E2's unvoteable amendment is and we would have voted on Mr Bendl's amendment marked as E3, which is a question of competence in catch-and-catch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u31	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Negative.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 52, 135 Members and Members are registered, for 30, against 57. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u32	Furthermore, Mr President, according to the approved procedure, we will decide on Mr Bendl's parliamentary proposal, which is referred to as B4, the tails in sheep in particular. There was no opinion adopted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u33	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 53, 135 Members and Members are registered, for 131, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u34	The last amendment that we should vote on is marked by Mr Bendl's amendment as E5. There it also concerns the issue of smaller animals and buying. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u35	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 54, 135 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 132, against no one. The proposal has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u36	I would now ask you, Mr President, to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-004-007.u37	I agree. As we voted on all the proposals tabled, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, pursuant to House Press 72, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Veterinary law]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as it has been read, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 55, registered 135 Members, for 133, against 1. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you both to the rapporteur and to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. I am opening another item in today's meeting under the approved agenda and that is
