ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, given that the day of the sitting has been interrupted by nine o'clock, which has just occurred, I am opening the second day of the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record your participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to re-subscribe with ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I declare that MEPs asked to apologize for their absence from the meeting: Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from the whole day of the hearing due to illness, Jan Bartošek from 10 am to the end of the meeting day due to foreign travel, David Šimek from 9 am to 13 pm due to illness, Tom Philipp from 9 am for working reasons, Vít Kaňkovský from 5.30 am to 24 pm for family reasons. We will now proceed... and with the replacement card number 28, Minister Stanjura will vote. We will now proceed. We are in the interrupted debate in which they were signed up, after the interrupted Mr Babiš, also Minister Válek, Mr Okamura, and there are still a few factual ones. However, we are now going to continue with the adjourned speech - Mr Babiš has the floor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u2	So Viktor Orbán, who is there the longest of all, yes, advised me how to fight for Czech interests. And I fought it out. I fought 42 billion with my fierceness. Yes, it's in the Marrakesh Bazaar Finals. Yes, that's it. And how did Mr. Nečas negotiate? Well, Mr. Nečas didn't negotiate. He slept at the hotel, that's what the ambassadors said, and then the Commission called and went out to negotiate. They were afraid to knock on the door because they didn't know who would open it. And you know what I'm talking about. So he... and he didn't negotiate anything. So please, it's Hungary, Minister, you know about it, and the Secretary of Defense will tell you what the Czech Armory is, which has a big investment in Hungary, and other companies are investing in Hungary. Your rhetoric of your government - as you make Hungary an enemy state? You're doing this? It's in your program. You're saying this is wrong, it's Hungary. So they don't have an investor with us? Aren't we supposed to be doing business? Aren't people supposed to go on vacation? What? What are you even talking about? I'd like to ask why you didn't allow the Prime Minister to have a bilateral with Viktor Orbán? Why? Why didn't the first V4 come because the Prime Minister was in a hurry because Mrs Pekarová, Mr Bartoš said no, Hungary is toxic. Mrs Pekarová said not to vote for Orbán. Well, they elected him. That's really unbelievable. So you're actually just hurting Czech companies, Czech citizens. But you should be doing economic diplomacy, but you can't, because of course you can't, because you never did because you didn't make a good living, so you went into politics. Well, let's go to the power station now, please. The Prime Minister told us yesterday how well you arranged the gas, the LNG. I was wondering if it would be good to know if you've already bought that gas for Ems in the Netherlands. You say you've arranged the gas. No, ČEZ bought there and rented a capacity to liquefy the LNG. And you signed a contract with CEZ. I think it's 90 million. And do you know when the contract went well? Until the law firm of the godfather who runs Mr. Síkela came along, and then it worked. Then at the last minute on Thursday night, the minister signed it at the airport. After that, it worked. And I'm asking you, if you don't use it, who's gonna pay for it? That's just marketing nonsense. Because the gas, if one were to be purchased in Qatar, and I'm curious, then where's it going? Where's the pipe going? Well, to a point in Germany where Nord Stream 1. And if Nord Stream isn't 1, there won't be any pressure. So your LNG, you know where you can put it? So you're just mystifying. You're just talking nonsense you don't understand. Yes, LNG, as you've arranged. Now, let's go to the showdown. The Prime Minister actually says it's not... I don't know, what do you want? The Španěl offered you, yes, here it says, article, Španěl pay two thirds less for electricity than the Němec. And the Prime Minister said it was some kind of energy island. I guess the Španěl will suggest it to you next week at your Council. And the Prime Minister said in the past that - April 17th, Prime Minister, you said, "Stopping the price is nonsense," said Fiala. We don't want to help people. And so on. I have a million of your statements here. I can remind you of them later. So the ceiling's easy. Yesterday on TV, or by experts, various publishers from Mr. Bakala, it teaches us that it is not possible that whoever pays for it. What's he supposed to pay? Do you not understand that today CEZ, which has a production price of around 20 euros, sells it for 600? Or a coal producer, if they add up the emission allowance, there's a hundred. You were supposed to cancel those emission allowances. That's a hundred now. Yes? And then there's gas. But you don't want Putinův's gas, so why do you allow Europe to produce electricity from gas? Well, cancel it. Go back to coal. Coal over gold. Perhaps the Finance Minister will find out that he has a bundle of money and 6 million tons of coal in OKD. So I said you're supposed to put it on 61.20 like the Slovák. The Bakalovs quickly rushed in with an article, where some journalist pretends to understand. You guys said if they get extreme profits, you're gonna tax them. Then what is it? That's the same thing, isn't it? If you cover it up, they'll have less profit. When CEZ has it for 20 and sells out for 61.20, it still has 300 percent. So what are we talking about here? Then why don't you do it? You could have done it a long time ago. But that's what you'd have to want. And of course you don't want it. So I'd love to, but I don't understand why this government let the V4 be broken, why you're here attacking Hungary. Yes? And why, if the Slovák have already put a stop to it, you won't do it the same way. I don't understand. The Prime Minister then spoke in his speech about where the money was. Yes, we had to go into debt, but it was still less, less debt than you guys were ending. Yes? You said where's the money? Well, I have them here, sir, so the Prime Minister says. I will turn your question: Mr Babish, where is the money? Where did you put them? Now, Prime Minister, this is the table of former Secretary Schillerová. [[He's pointing.]] This is. Here's 619 billion. Do you want me to read it all? FEDERAL $43.6 billion. Cancellation of the real estate acquisition tax of 13,8 billion. The introduction of a reverse tax loss of 1.9. Adoption of tax package 79.9. And so on. It's 618 billion - we put it into the system within the covid. We saved employment. Spa, I told you yesterday in Trebon. Pirates there. The devils, didn't they? They tried to beat us up there. They were supposed to be glad that we gave a bed allowance to the spa and to the staff. [[9.10 hours]] Here's the money, Prime Minister. And if we ask where you're putting the money, I don't know what you're gonna tell us. It would be nice if you could basically show it, too, because we just know where we are - everyone knows that. And the SAO, please, the chairman is who? Like everyone lobbied. It's interesting that a former Socan MP is so popular with you, and then he writes that nonsense, he pulls it out of context, he did it. Yes, everyone lobbied for it, Mr. President Zeman, everyone, it's amazing, the former MP is the head of the SAO and, of course, he's a politician. Politics. And he writes nonsense. The debt pace, yes, Mrs. Schillerová was selling bonds in advance because she simply spared. So it's all the mystifications. And of course it's pointless to comment on all the ministers here. But the most disgusting thing that's come out here is Mr. Jurečka, that's incredible, and that's why our people left. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] We've never really had this crap before. So Mr. Jurečka started telling some personal story here, I don't know what to tell a personal story like. Mr. Jurečka lied about St.B. at first, he said I was a member of St.B. What's a member of StB? [[I told my coworker.]] No, a member, here you go. You lied on the 23rd - it's on your tweet, Minister. And I was an employee of a foreign trade business. I won the trial three times, you can laugh all you want. I won the trial three times. So instead of condemning your fanatical candidate for municipal elections, you said I was a member of the StB. Minister, I had three emigrants in my family. [[Response to the comment from the surroundings:]] Yes, that was here. I'll do it again. Why do you say that, why do you lie all the time? That's incredible. You're normally a notorious liar. Notorious liar. Then you lied about it, and that's probably what the agency's giving you that I played tennis with the underworld. Can you tell what kind of underworld? Who was I playing tennis with? Why are you lying about me and the Krejčíř? I've never seen him before in my life. It's a lie, you normally lie brutally. (Member Babiš also responds to comments made by Members outside the microphone during his speech. Of course, I'm asking - another lie that I met at the gas station with Pecina was the head of the UOHS. No, it wasn't at the gas station, it was in the car show at the restaurant, you don't have to laugh, your Půta, who supposedly took the money there, and that's in court, and in a wiretap. I met Pecina. [[Response to note:]] It's in the wire. Yes - but he met at the gas station, it's there. It's in there. [[The comments of Members outside the microphone shall not be recorded.]] Of course it's there. So I wasn't at any gas station, and I met Mr. Pecina at the restaurant. At a restaurant next to Agrofert. What's the big deal? Like I couldn't meet Mr. Pecina next door at the restaurant? Couldn't he? So you're just manipulating here. Then you said how constructive you're gonna be, how you're gonna talk to us here, after you've told these lies, okay? So you were talking about my life story somewhere, I don't know. We were in the government together, Minister. We were in the government together. So we all know who you are. We know you were a weak pesticide salesman, and that's why you didn't make a living in private. And that's why you went into politics. And you think we don't remember what you were doing? Well, let me remind you how you were in the government, how the different articles came out here, how you made a donation to your brother, you normally hired your brother at the Department of Agriculture. Normally, you hired him there. And he accidentally got 500,000, and then, by some chance, his squad donated 18,000 to KDU-ČSL in 2020. Then you became famous - the minister to patronize. Jurečka in handing out patronage and money did not forget his electoral region. You've always abused your position, as you've abused it now, by writing to all seniors. Here we have: Minister Jurečka cut his part in advertising, promotes Czech Christmas or himself, says here. In the commercial, in which Minister Jurečka played, I did not notice any Czech food, I only noticed Mr Jurečka's promotion, says Jaromír Tejc from ČSSD. Here's an article about 100 days in office. Minister of Agriculture Jurečka likes to brag and sometimes he lies. The first vice-chairman of KDU Jurečka flew into government politics like a rocket, to last year a completely unknown politician with a strong self-promotional talent became one of the main faces of coalition negotiators with the ČSSD. Yes, we remember all that, Minister. You gave away nine and a quarter million in patronage. You normally took 301 to patronize, plus money. You've always abused your function. And you have the audacity to perform here at all? All farmers remember you promised to give them 3.5 billion to compensate for drought in September 2017. You gave them nothing, we had to deal with it afterwards, our government. And then, of course, there's the crust. You destroyed the Czech woods, Minister, you didn't put a penny on the bark. Then here's your ex-boss of the Les, who's being charged. Then we've got state marketing, carp fizzing around the rocks, state marketing. This is all yours. It's all yours that you were a minister and abused your position. Yes, then you're here 2. 2. 2017 - Jurečka transferred the farm to her wife and she received euro subsidy to the area. Imagine if Babiš had turned the company into a wife, that would have been screaming! But Mr. Jurečka's still on the tractor, so I don't know who's handling it when you put it on your wife. Here's your former boss, the symbol of corruption. Naive pig pimp gets involved in taxes, Kalousek turned against Jurečka. Here's a nice article that you understand everything, once you propose a gross wage, then a clean one, especially to say something, so you wrote a letter to the seniors. Then you lobbied at Valachova's, the apartment, where they distributed the subsidies. Mr. Jurečka pointed out the falcons in a small village of Kokory in Přerovsk. In 2015 - I will return to the crust - castle spokesperson Jiří Ovčáček said after the meeting on Twitter that the expert team stated, among other things, that in 2015 it was still possible to stop barking calamity, but the Ministry of Agriculture did not take adequate measures. So I really don't know, I don't know what you guys are talking about. Do you want to perform constructively? You insult us, attack us, and you have butter on your head. And all your talk about čapí's hnízdo and other things... Let's do it again. I joined the 2013 policy and became Minister 2014. There is nowhere that I would abuse my position, unlike you, Mr. Jurečka, who has permanently abused various marketing events before the election. You're permanently taking advantage of that function and you're going to keep doing it, you're doing it now. You wrote a letter to the elderly - your merit. Yes, so I've never used office in politics, there's no one in the world who would come and say that Babiš wanted something from him. Conflict of interest? All that crap. It's all made up. So that marketing agency of yours sitting there with the Prime Minister is training you and giving you. [[unintelligible]] The stork's nest has nothing to do with politics, 15-year-old stuff, that's what I'm talking about, all that stuff has run out, the mansion and crap, okay? You got nothing on me. [[9.20 hours]] I sent all the money I made to the singles. I didn't go into politics for a living. And you, of course, are -- you're all moralizing here. No? Mr. Michálek moralized us, then pissed on the French embassy, didn't he? And others moralize us. So the highlight of your career, Minister Jurečka, is how passionate you are at the disco in České Budějovice. Now he's got a shame coat. So here's the DJ, reporting that you were at a party at the Maxim Club. According to eyewitness testimony, a drunken Jurečka spent at a bar in the siege of local club gold diggers, which he did not hesitate to lick in public. [[Report to the O.R.]] You licked gold diggers. Why are you licking gold diggers? [[With laughter:]] This is probably a new popular contact campaign, which he forgot to inform his colleagues about. The familiar phrase "people will go into coalition with anyone" in this case has gained a new dimension. The party was also informed about Jurečkův's escapades through official Facebook and will certainly not praise the Minister of Agriculture. Well, that's true. You play Christian, don't you? You have five children, and here you moralize us. I have a good morale. [[Commented off the microphone.]] Yes, that's it. I know you don't like it, but next time, Mr. Jurečka, don't lie. Don't lie. You're lying, and you don't have the right to criticize us of anything, and not me at all, and to tell me about my life story. My life story is clear. You've become the President of the KDU-ČSL just to have a good time. That's it. That's it. So next time I'd beg your lies, and then I won't have to perform and remind you of your Christian values. So, Prime Minister, I don't want to hold up any longer. I'll just read you the headlines I have here. On October 6, you said: Every year we want to save 100 billion. Where is it? On December 19, you said: No cars with internal combustion engines are out of the question. Well, unfortunately, Mrs. Hubáčková screwed up. Ceiling prices is nonsense - 17. 4. Purple's recipe for inflation. We have inflation that almost nobody knows what to do with, but we do. Great. 28. 4. And what did you do? You can't handle runaways, you're bragging about country work. The mayor was upset by Prime Minister Fiala. More debt than Babiš? That's not what Fiala wants to brag about. That's the headline of News 7. 6. Fiala only statement he made about the doses was that he cooked it. A lot. We have significantly increased the number of households entitled to social benefits. That's what you said, it was probably a mistake, but of course I often have the mistakes, but I think you meant it. To combat inflation, the government will allocate 177 billion. Lie again. Energy aid sprinkles the whole Czech Republic. Then where is he? And so on, I can talk here for another hour. So, in conclusion, I don't want to hold up any longer. We are constructive opposition. We're constructive. You-- come on, Mr. Stanjura's laughing. When you go to Varga in Budapest and ask how you're supposed to raise your taxes so that marketing ends well, ask me, I'll advise you privately. We know something about it. Why do you go to Hungary to ask when Lipavský says Orbán is horrible, terrible? I don't know, Prime Minister, please don't let the anti-Hungarian sentiments affect you. The V4 worked great, and now someone told you Hungary was wrong. Well, it's a good thing Mr. Stanjura was in Budapest asking questions. Mr Lipavský says that the Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó, who, by the way, is also in charge of energy, so he will meet with Okamura at the Síkela Summit. What a scandal! How dare you! Okamura has 500,000 voters! Or what, then? Do you believe he can't meet Okamura? And I had him in Paloma, of course, there was a Hungarian president who was our friend, yes, Katalin Novak, a great woman, a mother of three. And we're not supposed to talk to the Maďar at all? Mr. Lipavský here - who dictates this nonsense to you? So turn into a fly and sit on the European Council so you can hear the Orbán and watch!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u3	Please, Mr. Ambassador - I don't want to interrupt you, but for more or less the few times you've been using a dictionary here that I don't think corresponds to the limits of decent behavior. So please, keep your faces down, behave yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u4	I won't use it anymore. So I just want to say, Prime Minister, that we are constructive opposition. You never approached us, you never sat down with us on economic matters. Never. Yes, you invited us twice about Ukraine, that's fine, thank you for that. But we're ready. We are prepared to be a constructive opposition. So what I'm saying is, this meeting was important. Important for the ANO movement to clearly state how the government should proceed. You don't do it, you à priori - everything we say is wrong and it's a mistake. So if you want to be constructive, then be constructive, we're ready. And thank you very much for that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u5	The Prime Minister is now registered with a factual remark, followed by Minister Jurečka - with factual references. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u6	Just very briefly, because I will not respond to all the nonsense that has been said here. It's just an introduction. What the Prime Minister here said about my colleagues from the government, especially Vice-President Jureček, is really not funny, but it's pathetic. You, Mr President, you came, then you left for the campaign somewhere overnight, then you came back and you went on with that load of nonsense that you included us in yesterday. Well, I just have a very short reaction. Please, what are you bragging about in the EU? That you had cell phones - that you had cell phones for opening nights? I mean, that's something that's totally normal, we all have that, and we're normally communicating. That you acted overnight and two days at the European Council? The European Council usually lasts two days, and we regularly spend the night there. It's nothing to brag about. There are significant results, and you didn't have any. And please don't repeat the nonsense your people are telling you, who may no longer know Czech in Brussels or are completely confused. Of course, I responded to Verhofstadt, just look at the record of the meeting, and I reacted rather sharply. So you may not like what I told him, but telling lies that I didn't react is completely absurd. And what are your people doing in Brussels? That Mrs. Charanzová, Mrs. Jourová, you sent there? These are your nominees. What are they doing for the Czech Republic? How do they vote in the European Parliament for the interests of the Czech Republic? Look, invite them, talk to them to see that they do nothing for the interests of the Czech Republic! Cry to them, not to us here in the Chamber of Deputies and the government that defends the Czech Republic! [[Let's hear it for the Coalition MPs.]] Of course, we didn't break the V4, that's nonsense, I'll save that for another time. But there's one thing you proved guilty about, the Green Deal. You said you didn't approve of anything, and then in the second sentence, you said that you negotiated an exemption when you approved, and that you pushed for the exemption. So either you negotiated an exemption in an approved Green Deal, which you unfortunately agreed to, or it didn't happen, and you didn't negotiate an exemption. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] He can't pay both. And that just shows how you don't understand European politics - and how you didn't do anything there! [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u7	Now Minister Jurečka is with the actual registration. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u8	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, colleagues. I was talking more or less about the facts in the performance yesterday, which President Andrej Babiš was talking about. I was talking about the fact that, according to the Slovak court, you were a co-worker of the StB, I was talking about the Crown Bond case, I was talking about other things that are clearly traceable that you are the one who has the court on September 12th, you are the former Prime Minister and a member of the government who has been prosecuted and is being prosecuted, while no one from this government has such a case. And I was talking about other things that are documented in public space. If you're talking about me and you're talking about me taking advantage of something and all that, if you're convinced of it and you're not just using the headlines, then I'm gonna ask you, go after it, file the evidence, initiate a police investigation, otherwise it's really just beating up empty straw. I've always said I'm ready to explain these things, I've been to the police to explain myself, I've been a witness in court, I have no problem at all. If you've got the arguments, you've got some new findings, give them to me. I didn't abuse my office. The system of patronage was set up for ministers before me, they have them and had other ministries. If you are envious of the money received by small breeders who have received small municipalities that have received interest associations within the agrarian sector, then I do not understand it. It was money that these organizations really did in their activities, so first of all they were grateful, and second of all, it made a great deal of sense. For example, equipment for exhibitions of the Breeders Association in Moravia and in Bohemia was purchased. So these are specific things. And I'll admit to commenting on some tabloid headlines here, so I'm not gonna go down on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u9	We are now going back to the debate and there is a priority right here, Minister Válek. The President of Okamura follows. But we don't have Minister Válek here, so at that point, President Okamura with priority rights, Minister Černochová is next in line. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, after an all-nighter, we have had a long debate about the distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. We have clearly described the situation that the government of Petr Fiala does not have a solution for the energy crisis in the Czech Republic, it does not have a solution for citizens of the Czech Republic to improve their standard of living. Our Members correctly described the situation and scandals surrounding the STAN movement. After these scandals, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan must resign, his position is not sustainable. Purple's government is not able to provide citizens' basic life needs, prices are going up and the government isn't solving the causes. On behalf of the SPD, I am very clear, and please remember this sentence - ensuring the basic needs of life must not be the subject of ideology and activism, and you have made it an ideology and activism, and now all citizens of the Czech Republic are literally paying for it. The energy market is collapsing and the price of electricity in the Czech Republic is currently 17 times higher than it was two years ago and the gas is even 37 times higher. The situation is critical and the government of Petr Fiala in the composition of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN is acting late and, moreover, on the basis of the pressure of the opposition. A few months ago, the SPD proposed and published 10 specific points on how to combat the energy crisis and price increases. But the government is deaf and blind. Relying on a common solution at EU level is naivety, because each country has a different energy mix and a different price level. Moreover, who in the EU wanted to take measures has already taken them. Slovakia and Poland have already put a stop to energy prices. Similarly, Spain and Portugal. The government of Petr Fiala and Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS are fully responsible for the current situation, which caused the energy poverty of citizens and companies, the recession of industry, the economy and the threat of social reconciliation by their inactivity. Businesses fail, businesses fail, and many of them do not survive the winter. There are strikes and hospitals at risk. The government comes late with measures, but either way the measures are insufficient and the government solves the consequences, not the causes. According to the current survey, only two out of ten of our citizens believe that our country is heading in the right direction under the rule of Petr Fiala. That means only 20 percent of the citizens think so. Prime Minister Petr Fial then does not trust 78 percent of the citizens record, and according to the international survey, which has been published by mainstream media, Prime Minister Fiala even has the lowest support among European prime ministers among its citizens from all European states. Yet you stick to the government as ticks and want to continue to harm the whole Czech Republic. The government's dilettantism, which has now culminated, disrupts our economy, disrupts families, disrupts long - built relationships. People are falling into new and new executions. In the opinion of the SPD, there is no other solution but the immediate departure of incompetent, inactive, anti-national governments while there is still time. The government has no solution, has scandals, and is not a government of experts. Each of the government Members who will vote in favour of the Fialův Government today is jointly responsible for the current problems of our citizens. A moment ago, we have heard here the President of the TOP 09 and, at the same time, the President of the House, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, as if calling for decent behavior, and it is you, President Pekarová Adamová, who constantly insults the citizens of the Czech Republic with your arrogant remarks. And I repeat the reasons why the SPD members initiated today's vote on distrust by the government. The Fialův Government is unable to address the increase in energy and food prices and refuses to help our citizens and businesses. Millions of citizens are getting into unsolvable financial and social problems because of the incompetent Prime Minister Fial, incompetent government. Businesses are failing and unemployment is rising. In all of this, government parties are affected by organized crime, corruption, and mob relations. This government has done so much evil that it should resign immediately. The SPD will vote for distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u11	It is also registered with the priority right of Minister Černochová and Minister Stanjura. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u12	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all who have signed this meeting in distrust of the government, so I would like to thank you for your signature, because I am very pleased that we can have all the ministers of the Fialův Government here to have an opportunity to present what we have managed to do in more than eight months at our departments. If something like this happens every six months, eight months, it'll be great because we won't have to invest energy and time in conversations, but we'll always be able to perform here with what's new at our resorts right now. So I take it this is a big social event, and I take that as a partial introduction to some of the colleagues that I haven't even seen here in eight months, let alone hear some of them speak. So I welcome it, thank you for that. I've listened carefully to the debate all day, all night, all morning, I've been ready here to answer your questions, and I think that's exactly the kind of democracy that we should appreciate having, because if the left part of the political spectrum, in particular, tends to that eastern direction, I can definitely tell you that you wouldn't have experienced something like this in the Russian Parliament. [[9.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am Minister of Defence for 259 days, of which 191 days are underway in Europe, Ukraine, as a result of Putin's aggression and his minions. That might actually be the end of it, because if any of you were wondering what we're dealing with dominantly at the Department of Defense, yes, it's this conflict that didn't cause Ukraine, but Russia caused it by its aggression and its imperialist tendencies, which it never actually abandoned. Despite the extremely difficult situation in which our countries and Europe are in, we are fulfilling what we have promised and from what the previous government, despite the resistance of the then Minister of Defence, Metnar retreated, which means an increase in the defense budget of 2% of GDP by 2024. At the end of his mandate, the government of Mr Andrej Babiš informed Mrs Schillerová that this commitment was impossible. Dear colleagues, we already have the instruments to fulfill this commitment, and I look forward to Mr. Andrej Babiš kneeling before me, as he said six months ago. I'm really looking forward to it. We have a proposal to create a so-called defense fund that will ensure stable funding for large military modernization projects and which we will soon introduce you to the Chamber of Deputies. We have also prepared a law that will guarantee the amount of defense spending at 2% of GDP in the future, or we are actually ready to meet our commitments and issue sufficient resources for our defence, which is an important function of the state. We are also catching up with the slippage of those past governments in the area of defence financing, where budget increases were slow. We are also trying to speed up the modernisation of the military and major modernization projects that have stagnating for years. We have made a fundamental strategic decision on the project for the acquisition of new infantry combat vehicles, we have canceled a botched tender and we have decided to go the way of an intergovernmental agreement. We are opening negotiations with the Swedish Party on the possibility of purchasing CV90 vehicles. We will coordinate the proposal with the Government of the Slovak Republic. I'm sure you've noticed here that on Saturday I made an agreement with Mr. Defense Minister Nad, a declaration of joint action, in Malacky. Among other things, this is a clear expression of the will of the government of Petr Fiala to cooperate with countries from our region. And here I would really like to thank the Slovak party for being willing to add us to this tender. Therefore, this tender and this method should enable the purchase of these vehicles as quickly as possible, which are crucial for the emergence of a heavy brigade, and how I firmly believe under the most favourable conditions possible. The acquisition of these beepers will lead to the fulfillment of our commitment to the Alliance, i.e. the construction of a heavy brigade. The Czech Republic undertook to have this by 2026. Our priority, like the previous governments, will be the involvement of the Czech industry and there is no way that we intend to discount it in negotiations with the Swedish party. It's the key thing to us. We want some of the funds to remain in our Republic, so that the funds remain to our companies, our people, so that this will be positively reflected in employment in our region. And this is exactly how we can invest more money in our defenses, knowing that this is also the support of our economy, our industry. We managed to arrange a donation with Germany in the form of 15 Leopard 2 tanks in version 2A4. The donated tanks will be gradually modernised up to version A7+. Subsequently, we also want to negotiate on the acquisition of up to 50 new tanks, and this will therefore be a task for the next period. The army is currently processing draft specifications and modifications. We are beginning to negotiate with the Government of Israel on the acquisition of three Heron drones, which is based on the exact technical specification of the Army of the Czech Republic. We negotiated the gift of 8 helicopters from the US beyond those bought by the Czech Republic on the basis of an earlier intergovernmental agreement that was still negotiated in Washington by former Prime Minister Babiš, through the intergovernmental agreement where G to G was involved, and indeed G to G wanted to act on the acquisition of supersonics, i.e. supersonic aircraft. To buy 12 helicopters. At the cost of modernization, we'll get six more combat and 2 transport helicopters, which our army undoubtedly needs to replace in order to replace the old Soviet technology, which, of course, for a while, especially those upgraded helicopters, will have to serve before all the new helicopters come, or those helicopters donated, because even the former Secretary of Defense knows that if any contract is concluded, it doesn't mean that the technique would be here tomorrow, that it would be here in two years, maybe three years from the signing of the contract. That's why it's actually our goal, everyone, to shorten the time from the contract to the delivery, to the physical delivery. We have also made a crucial decision on the future of our supersonic air force, when I was given a mandate from the government to negotiate with the US government on the purchase of 24 F-35 aircraft. Our decision for this procedure is based on the analysis of the army and its recommendations. Here again, I would like to say that the analysis, the military solution, was also commissioned by the government of Mr. Andrej Babiš. It was Mr. then Minister of Defense, Metnar, who asked the soldiers for their military recommendation. This military recommendation is precisely in terms of what your former government wished for, and therefore that the Czech Republic should buy the most modern machines of the so-called fifth generation, which can also stand on the battlefield of the future. No one in this room can doubt that F-35 is the top of electronic warfare. If we manage to negotiate this purchase, and I absolutely don't want to anticipate the outcome, these planes will serve our army for another half century if we manage to negotiate it. Here I would like to strongly oppose what Mr Vích here said about the fact that perhaps the Swedish party offered us something for free. Mr Vícha, through Madam President, you are lying. The Swedish side offered no such thing. On Monday, on Tuesday, I renegotiated on this quasi-offer, which was spoken only and only by the Ambassador, with the Secretary of Defense at the informal ministry that was here, and neither did the Minister of Defense of Sweden say anything about it, and he doesn't know about it. He said that he distanced himself from the ambassador's statement that there was no such thing. So stop lying, stop spreading alarms and disinformed the public that someone's offering us something for free. It's not, and you're lying. [[A round of applause for Members of the ODS.]] In addition to the stability of military financing and its modernisation, we are also working intensively to stabilise personnel, increase the number of soldiers and members of active backup, so that the target by 2030 is met to have 30,000 soldiers and 10,000 reserve agents. I'd like to stop here for a moment and thank all the new recruits who either join the army, the professional one, or in that first step into the active backup, and maybe they'll change their mind, and they'll want to be professional soldiers. I think it is clear that the conflict in the east of us clearly shows that people are interested in defending the Czech Republic, that they really want the Czech Republic to be a safe country, that the Czech Republic should also stand up to the foreign field, and that is why they are reporting and wanting to serve our country. They're real patriots! Not what the representatives of the SPD are doing here! [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] [[9.50 hours]] With regard to some modernization projects in this area, we want to use modern and attractive tools for the young generation, such as the upcoming virtual recruitment centre, which will allow recruitment in an online environment. We will simplify and shorten the process of joining the military. Dear colleagues, all I have said here, what we are working on at the Ministry of Defence, are things that should normally be done at a time of peace and stability. Many of these things were to be worked out in the past and, unfortunately, they were not. Here I just have to say, and now I don't want to criticize my predecessors here, I would have to criticize my ODS colleagues, really for the last 20 years, the only thing invested in defending our homeland was to keep it in some kind of stand-by fashion so that, of course, there might be some defense, but now it's up to us, now it's up to our generation, in this House, to move it somewhere and change it. Therefore, I would also like to ask the members of the Defence Committee and the President, the former Minister, to really pull together in this regard, so that we do not have pseudo- or frog war, conflicts between ourselves, whether anyone has learned anything five minutes earlier or five minutes later. I think we all agree that the defence of our country cannot and must not and that it is the aim of all of us to guide the Czech Republic of Skylla and charybda to the current situation that is in the east of us and succeed. To succeed not only within Europe, the Alliance, but also in this country, and to try to get out of the horror that is going on in the east of us, at least to take it away as the Czech Republic that we have awakened from the pink cloud, that we have taken off those pink glasses and we are aware that this is an area that we must not simply save. We are in a situation where there is a really furious conflict from our borders that we have not remembered in Europe since World War II. In this situation, therefore, we are forced to react very quickly and we do not want this conflict to grow into a dimension that will threaten our country directly, and I, believe me, have been trying to do this the whole time, the 259 days that I am at the Ministry of Defence, so I am trying to do it. Since the first day of the war in Ukraine, our government has helped, by delivering weapons and humanitarian aid. We've taken care of hundreds of thousands of war refugees. We're treating wounded soldiers, we're helping with the repair of the tech. Our help will always continue so that our own defenses are not compromised. And here at this point, I would also like to stop by, because from this speech by my colleague Vích - again the further spread of hatred and alarm messages - it seems that by some of our arms exports, we may be in danger of our own security. This is not the case, Mr Vích, through the President. By exporting weapons to Ukraine, our defence is in no way threatened, on the contrary. The export of weapons to Ukraine is in favour of the defence of the Czech Republic and it is strange that you do not know this as a former professional soldier, Mr Vích, through Madam President! We are actively strengthening the eastern wing of NATO. We joined a multinational combat group in Slovakia, which was created as an immediate response to the North Atlantic Alliance's war in Ukraine. This combat group will count up to 2,100 soldiers and the Czech Republic is at its head. Among other things, thank you, yesterday we had a Committee on Defence, and the Committee on Defence also approved a so-called large mandate, so we should also discuss a large mandate in the Chamber of Deputies sometime in the coming days. It has already been approved by the Senate, the Senate Committee and the Senate as such, so in fact it remains only for discussion here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We also went to Slovakia, which asked us for temporary assistance with the protection of airspace. In fact, as part of the air police, which was originally due to end in June, we first went to Lithuania to see that we extended the air police by two months, because the rotating country had a shortage of aircraft and turned to us. So now we have come to meet the demand of Slovakia and the Slovak airspace will be guarded together with the Polák. We also closed the memorandum on this topic, we signed it on Saturday in Slovakia. Here I would like to point out once again that this example of cooperation also clearly demonstrates that countries from one region are able to cooperate, are able to help themselves and are able to face together the challenges that await us. And I have to say, I'm very happy because I was born in Czechoslovakia to a Polish mom, that I can be Secretary of Defense at a time when we have the best historical relationships with Slovakia and Poland. Madam Members, I could still talk here about a number of projects that we have managed to move and which I believe will finally move our army into the 21st century. But with a clear conscience, I can really tell you that the last few months of work at the Defense Department have been used to defend our country completely and we have nothing to be ashamed of. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Ministry of Defence, not only the Deputy Ministers, but all the employees, soldiers, civilian employees, simply all those who work in this Quapid and are able to actually submit materials to the government, which concern various legislative changes or help Ukraine, at the same time to deal with matters related to our Presidency, at the same time to ride on a rather complex ministerial trip to Brussels within the framework of the North Atlantic Alliance. Really, if this team weren't there, we wouldn't be able to stand it. The twenty-fourth of February was a hard wake-up call for all of us, and we really need to take our defenses and security seriously, not to underestimate it, invest in it. I have never doubted this, and I am proud that the current government is united in this and has been taking clear steps from the very beginning to correct debts from the last 20 years' era, and thus to move the Czech Republic significantly forward in this modernization. I want to thank all those who support this government, and I know that even if I do not convince some of my colleagues from this part of the spectrum to give our government not confidence, but trust, I still firmly believe that we will continue to work well within this Chamber of Deputies and their bodies for the modernisation and defence of our country, and I thank you for that. [[shows left]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u13	Mr Vondráček and then Mr Vomáčka want to respond with a factual point first. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. In my point of fact, I would like to respond immediately to the Minister's introduction. I would like to thank her for the rather unusual idea that we would meet here on a certain regular basis to distrust the government. It's something new, but when else do you want to try it out instead of this government? [[Fun.]] I have devoted myself to this topic here in my performance from 6:09 to 6:29. Madam Secretary says she's been watching it all. I was saying that the meeting that's going on, the distrust speech, is actually the last chance we had. I think our club would much rather be able to agree and sometimes place a discussion point at a normal proper meeting, or you would, after some agreement, allow us to and approve an extraordinary meeting programme. And I remind you again that I am saying this with a clear conscience, because when the ratio of forces was different and we were coalitions, those discussion points were included and programmes of extraordinary meetings were approved. You all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u15	Another enrollment with the facts is Mr. Vomáčka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I have already applied for a de facto yesterday, but it was only my turn now, and I would like to remind you that as a longtime mayor, and I am sure that this is a reason for you to think, so yesterday it was September 1st and many of us have welcomed the first graders. First graders are having their first full school day today, and I would like to - and I believe that across the political spectrum - wish them to enjoy our schools and to grow up to be decent people. And then I'd have one more wish, and it's up to our educators to raise them to culture, and so that we don't have to experience the fact that it's those first-timers who, for example, ever get here behind this counter so that they don't use arguments about licking the vice-premieres on the bar counters or anything like that. I really want our educators to raise them to culture. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u17	Thank you. Minister Stanjura is now registered with priority rights. Now last logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I read yesterday's speech by the President of the opposition, Mr Andrej Babiš, and let me especially appreciate the work of stenographers from this place, because it is really very difficult. At first, I thought it was a structured speech and I'd try to use some arguments for or against, put the facts against the facts. I found that this is not entirely possible, or rather impossible. Let's try to look at it a little bit in general. It is quite smiling that a person whose words in politics have become human, who screamed here: I will never resign, I will never resign, remember, never, never - he calls on someone to resign. Maybe he could start at his place. But he wouldn't like that, even members of his movement wouldn't like that. A man here who blames someone for meeting someone, a man who's the defendant. They're not newspaper articles, they're not newspaper headlines, that's true. Of course, I don't know how this trial is gonna end, and I'm not gonna comment on the ongoing trial, but the very fact that the Prime Minister was the person who was first charged is now the defendant, and he has the courage to call on someone here to resign, and he just doesn't look in the mirror. It happens to us here, and it's very dangerous when words get different content than they actually do. If you look at it and read it or listen with a cool head - you will read back what Mr. Babiš said today, it was almost one insult after another, and yet he says you're insulting me here. But he's a master in the business. And they're applauding him for it. He's a man who's here - I don't know if he's lying about sports, or if he's already a mythical Baron Prášil, he'll convince himself, and then he's very persuasive when he's constantly spreading those lies. Let's at least try a few responses to what he said here. Mr. Andrej Babiš, when he was Prime Minister, simply agreed to Green Deal. Now he can go crazy, criticize everyone, but that's just a fact. I did not notice that the Government of Andrej Babiš voted against the Green Deal, undertook, came to the Chamber of Deputies to the Committee on European Affairs and had the mandate approved by the Prime Minister at the European Council to reject Green Deal on behalf of the Czech Republic. [[He's going.]] None of this happened. The stronger the words choose today, when he no longer has the responsibility, when he doesn't go there. Notice how familial he says: he spoke to Angela, now Ursula's there, now he's calling Macron, on all his phones. That's all nice - and what are the results? Lousy. Lousy! Andrej Babiš chose, I did not agree to it, but why not?, in the area of taxes that he will promote revers charge at European level. And that's what he did, that's what we have to say. He stalled, blocked other solutions, but why not?, it was his government's decision, he had a mandate to do so. And what's the result? When he negotiated it, what did he do with the exception? Nothing! He negotiated it for nothing. I say, I'm against it, but I would expect someone to negotiate after a long period of time to try to translate it into the laws of our country. How many trials were there? Zero! How many laws were written with reverse charge? Zero! That's just the way it is. And if that is not the case, I will ask Mr Babiš to give himself a de facto speech and mark the figures of the House of Presses in which his government has proposed this. And then I say, I'm sorry, I have overlooked this House press in that thousand, or how many were in the last parliamentary term. But I'm sure there's a zero in the House press. Yet, as he says, he was fiercely defending it, negotiating at night. Then he negotiated it and then he didn't do anything about it. So tell yourself, what was the advantage for the Czech Republic? Couldn't he have chosen something else that would really benefit the Czech Republic? I could. He's up to reverse charge and he hasn't prepared anything in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u19	Please, let's not discuss from the bench like this. Let us respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u20	I didn't forget. I didn't question that either. I can answer that, even though Mr. Babiš is yelling at me. If we were to shout like that, it would be about the arrogance of the government and the members of the government if they did! But it's okay. I'm talking about reverse charge. You're talking about something else entirely. And that's customary. If we ask something a, he answers B. Right Vienna, left Warsaw. [[Fun and applause for government MPs.]] I'm not an expert on foreign policy, I'm not saying it about myself, but if it's on voltage in V4, and it actually exists there, it's due to a completely different assessment of Russian aggression in Ukraine by Poland and Hungary. Those who were, I would say, the most loyal allies within the framework of V4, Hungary and Poland, at this point in time, their journeys actually broke up. Let's take this as a fact. Neither will we change the position of the Hungarian Government, nor will we change the position of the Polish Government. Mr. Babiš here said, I don't know who he advised, that he wanted to be a fly, and if I use a decent statement, he'd like to hear what was going on at those meetings. Yes, I was in Budapest, I was dealing with the Hungarian Finance Minister. You are not a fly, Mr Babiš, through Madam President, but I will give you the agenda. We were not discussing the sector tax they have in Hungary. Surprisingly for you, apparently. We discussed the implementation of the minimum effective taxation of legal entities, this is the second pillar of the OECD, because I had previously discussed with the US Finance Minister and the United States will not really support the agreement on the first pillar without implementing the second pillar. We may not like it, but we also agreed with a Hungarian colleague that the first pillar of the OECD is more important for both the Czech Republic and Hungary, where the agreement has not yet been concluded. The second pillar was signed by more than 130 countries. And by signing it, they must at least bear the implementation of the second pillar on their territory. So this was the first point of the agenda on which we actually agreed that, for our countries, the approval of the first pillar within the OECD is more important, and we agreed that we would be doing not only at negotiations between our countries, but also within the European Union, everything to get to it and that agreement could arise. The second topic that we discussed together and agreed on is the implementation of the new RRF rules, or Recovery and Resilience Facility, which means we talked about the distribution key as well as the EUR 20 billion, which will increase the possibilities of subsidies for Member States, how to divide it and where to get the resources. Unsurprisingly, for me, we have also agreed on this issue. At this point, we are preparing several options for the October Ecofin and I believe that we will find a solution so that by the end of the year the 20 billion can be approved so that the allocation key is advantageous for the Czech Republic. Here, there are two interests of those countries that support the key that was in the covid. We say, if the REPowerEU is to be supported, so that it is important to take into account the dependence of Member States on Russian fossil fuels, and in this we have a very similar position as a Central European country. And we also agreed, and I said that it is also in the interests of the Czech Republic that the European Commission should approve the National Recovery Plan for Hungary, and I promised at the moment that Hungary will end bilaterally with the Commission that we are ready to call an extraordinary Ecofin to speed up the approval, in this case almost formal approval of the National Recovery Plan. At this point, it's been approved by 25 countries. The last two countries that do not have it are the Netherlands and Hungary. This was the content of the negotiations that took place I would say really in a good atmosphere. The consensus was greater than some who did not participate in the meeting could assume. So, as a standard, many of us are dealing with our Hungarian colleagues. But we are not capable, and we will not be a referee in this different approach to Russian aggression between Poland and Hungary. I think it simply does not belong to us as the Czech Government. If you feel any different, please. [[10.10 hours]] And it doesn't make me remember - I really don't like it when politicians from other countries intervene in election campaigns. I don't like our politicians in foreign countries doing this, but who had a Hungarian prime minister in the campaign for their movement in the election campaign? It was Mr. Andrej Babiš, and he didn't mind. If someone does it the other way around, it's a scandal. That's the classic attitude. I can, but I'm sure the rest of you can't. It came down to me acting after the Secretary of Defense, and I can confirm that our commitment to have defence spending of 2% of GDP at the latest in 2025 is also valid in these difficult budgetary times. After all, it is also written in the first draft budget and the budgetary perspective for the years 2024 and 2025. That's where the amounts correspond to the gradual increase. But what the Secretary of Defense said is true. Yes, we could do a piercing of the fact that we're going to write that amount this year, we could do a press conference, a pipe, but the Ministry of Defense is really moving forward so that we know exactly when and in which year we are really able to invest the money in defense. We're not the only country that's increasing defense spending regardless of whether anyone already has a 2 percent commitment today or not. Even countries neutral as Switzerland significantly increase defense spending, and by the way, they also buy the F-35s. I'm always surprised how many experts in public debate appear when there's a bigger social problem. And now I don't want to make it any easier. Let us remember how many experts emerged in public space when the Czech National Bank had the exchange rate commitment of the koruna to the euro. That was, I think, now I don't know if it was under Sobotkův's government or in Andrej Babiš's government. You yourself experienced how many experts were born in that public debate on covid, covideo measures, what should be done, what should not be done, and so on. I do not agree with Mr Babiš that we have done nothing within the Covido. On the contrary. One of our first decisions on December 17th was not to prolong the emergency. And we were criticized for it. Pull up those monitors from the end of December, as we are behind this decision, I think it is correct, as time has shown, as we have been treated from the left, from the right. We gradually restricted all restrictive measures and tried to turn the state-citizen relationship around, give them recommendations, and have confidence that people would take care of what was safest for them and their family. I think it's the right approach, and so far, he's proven himself, and we're not going to change anything. In general, if citizens' confidence in the state is to be increased, the state must start on its side and increase confidence in its citizens, its entrepreneurs. That is why we are also fulfilling our programming statement and have proposed the abolition of the EET. And now Mr. Babiš says coal is our gold. I agree with that. Except his government decided to end mining in OKD by the end of 2022. That's right. We have decided at this moment to extend the mining until the end of 2023. We have concluded contracts especially with large heat plants, and this will not make the increase in heat prices as high as the increase in heating prices when gas is used, for example. And at this point, we're counting on whether it's economically worth continuing mining between 2024 and 2025, so that we can eventually extract all the stocks that OKD has at its disposal. But it must have economic logic. At this point, expert studies are underway, and depending on how they turn out - if it turns out to be economically neutral at least, I think we'll decide to extend the mining process in the next few years. I'm still hearing it, I heard it yesterday, and I don't think that's the misunderstanding of the Minister of Finance, how the Prime Minister and the ministers fought with the former minister. It's like the finance minister has some money in some safe, and if some prime minister or some group of ministers or ministers and ministers gets down on him, he opens the safe, and now he pulls out the purses with the coins, and that's it. There's no such thing. If we open imaginary vaults at the Treasury Department, we'll only find debts. Just debts. And you can mock and ironize the SAO's reports, but we have established this office to assess, among other things, the state's management. You can ridicule and ironize the positions of the National Budget Board, but we have set up here precisely to have an independent body that will explain and discuss every government's measures - every government, not only yours - whether, for example, the proposed state budget, the budgetary outlook, tax changes, whether they are correct or wrong, whether they lead to stabilization of public budgets, or their gradual collapse. Just a few numbers, then. I'm not gonna read all the numbers here, but we've been used to spending about 40 billion a year on government debt. We're hearing a fairy tale here about how we were frontloaded as a state, and we bought bonds for stocks. It's almost like Jerevan on the radio. Yes, it's true, it was pre-funded by the end of 2021. Our government was appointed on December 17th, so 14 days from December 17th to New Year's Eve last year a government debt was prefinanced. We agree that's not too much. It's not zero, it's been 14 days. That's not helping. This year we expect it to be around 50 billion, 65 billion in the next year, 75 billion in 2024 and 82 billion in 2025. That's twice that in four years. I don't know more than the fact that the state pays its debts, it doesn't pay its debts, it pays its interest on those debts, from 40 to 82 billion. And now I could, if I took your famous EET book, what could all be worth, how many kilometers of highways, how many kindergartens, how many schools, how many hospitals, but I'm not gonna fabulate like you fabulated, I'm just saying: 40, 50, 65, 75, 82. Despite the difficult budgetary situation, we have tabled a bill which I hope will be approved in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate this year, and this is an increase in the mandatory VAT limit from one to two million and an increase in the possibility of applying flat-rate taxes from one to two million. All these measures reduce the tax burden. We're also together, if I remember correctly, canceling a substantial part of the road tax - 4 billion. Together, we reduced the excise duty on diesel and petrol - 4.2 billion. Together, many of us voted in the last parliamentary term to increase the basic deductible item, which applies, by 3,000 this year. All of this is in favour of taxpayers, and all of this, we also have to say - and I voted in favour of all these measures - is deepening the state budget deficit. All this talk, where's the money? Well, we don't have them holed up in a pillow at the Treasury Department. We don't have a purse of money in those vaults that if the Prime Minister or government members lay on me, I'll somehow pull out and find it. I'm not gonna find anything. [[10.20 hours]] However, what we are discussing, we must say this quite openly, is whether we will increase or increase the debt of the state budget, the deficit of the state budget in that particular calendar year. I think that's fair. And we often find reasons for that, we say yes, we consider this expenditure to be necessary, we know that it will increase the deficit, yet we propose and, if necessary, approve. So let me just remind you that the draft state budget, if memory doesn't deceive me, the House press 32 from the workshop of the last government, assumed a deficit for this year of 377 billion, we reduced it to 280, that's almost 100 billion, and we were blamed, that it's an accounting trick, that it's not an investigation or that it's too big an investigation and it's drastic and it's cosmetic, because the criticism went against each other, even though it came from the same bench of the same political movement. At this point, you have a state budget amendment in the House. We didn't rush her, we didn't want to come up with a two-day deficit of half a trillion to report at the end of the year that it was only 420, as we managed well. We had more numbers available, more data, we were able to honestly model tax revenue from the first half of the year, from the analysis of how individual tax revenues were realised in the second half of the year, from which we estimated. But if it's true that we have additional revenue and we're not sending it anywhere, what happens to the state budget deficit? Well, it's gonna go down, isn't it? When we have a deficit and I have additional revenue and I wouldn't make any expenses, it's going to go down. If the expenses were the size of the additional revenue, they wouldn't be reduced, they would be the same, that's a fact from the first grade of primary school. And we have come up with the proposal that we are increasing the deficit by CZK 50 billion. I'm not happy about it, but there are expenses that we think need to be done. So, yes, we're going to collect more, but we're going to pay back 50 billion more. For a moment, I will be focusing on speeches that would certainly raise a tempestuous applause in the Russian House and a much smaller applause in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is how much the Ukrainian crisis is costing us. What Ukrainian crisis? What's that? This is the result of Putin's aggression in Ukraine, this is not the Ukrainian crisis. It's that simple. We estimated in that February, early March, that expenditure could be 50 billion. They'll be lower. They're going to be lower, it was about 10 billion in the first half, and at this point, I'd estimate it's going to be half, 25 billion or 22. Daily expenses are almost CZK 6 billion. So, yes, to help those hundreds of thousands of refugees, including health insurance payments, humanitarian benefits... By the way, we voted for this many times, I think everyone voted for the 5,000, and now I hear from that pro-Russian group that it was wrong. But they voted in favour. So I'm just saying, these expenses will be, like, four days of state budget spending. 361 days remain and there are expenses that go to our citizens - when you say ours and them. 361 to four. I think that every normal person will understand this ratio and understand that this aid is a normal human gesture and it is nothing at the expense of our citizens. If we could theoretically raise the deficit by 22 we could say that we raised the deficit by 22 billion to help Ukrainian refugees. But we raised it by 50 billion. Where's the money going? I think that if you read the explanatory memorandum to this House press 284, the amendment, he is actually simpler and much more understandable than the standard material on the state budget, which has thousands of pages, including the chapter notebooks. There is a relatively detailed description in each chapter of what are new additional expenditures. Yes, some - I call them inflationary spending because we have inflationary revenue. Simple math. And I say and said repeatedly that the valorization formula for pensions proved successful, proved the system of extraordinary pensions, which we had for years in the law, but it wasn't until this year that he applied. Do we all remember? It's rising by inflation plus a third of the average wage growth, if there's no growth and there's a drop for wages, so there's zero. So worst-case scenario -- and it's this year -- because real wages are definitely going to fall, it's going to rise by inflation. And let's look at the state budget, I'll round it up a little bit: 330 billion VAT revenue, 600 billion pension expenses. So let's say 5 percent that your inflationary VAT revenue is going to rise, and you have to write them down by 5 percent because of the correct valorization formula for pensions. And if you have 350 billion and 600 billion, you have the same percentage, will that bring plus to the state budget or minus? Well she was a rhetorical question for those who would like to use the calculators - it brings a minus. This means, despite the really difficult situation - I can still get to the energy - we manage to keep the deficit lower than planned by the previous government. And let's say at least a few expenses, what it would look like if we followed that last budget. Yes, revenues are higher by 127 billion according to our latest estimate against the proposed budget. So we can say 377 minus 127 and we're on some kind of 250 billion basis if the last government would just collect additional revenue and not use any extra spending. 32 billion - pensions. No question, that's what any government would do. State debt, it's just a calculation of $9 billion more than it was in the state budget. Any government would just have to write that, it's not a political decision. Gas purchase, 8.5 billion. We were criticized that it wasn't enough. I'm going to assume that the last government would buy it anyway, so I'm not going to increase it. Child support of 8 billion, but the opposition proposal materialized in the amendment so that it would not be once but five times by the end of the year, so it would not be plus 8 billion, but plus 40 billion. Social services plus 3.2 billion - little according to today's opposition, I've noticed, see if it fits. It's going to be 4.8 billion for the state budget amendment. Tax reductions, minus 4.2, minus 4, I already said that. We voted in favour of this together, which means that the government's position does not differ from the opposition. Where was one big zero in the budget? Compensation for covid, declared, in budget zero, about 5 billion additional expenditure against the proposed budget in the Houses of the Press 32. Compensation of so-called indirect costs for energy-intensive operations - zero was in the state budget, it will be one or two billion, we will see who will meet all these conditions. Forgiveness of POZE, you actually support it, 6 billion this year, so you would have it the same way, and savings here are 12 billion this year, you say it's not enough. That is, if we add all this up, we look at it, and we don't evaluate it, you'll consider it a mathematical role, a debt, or a state budget deficit would be close to 500 billion this year. Yet we are criticized that we are not budget-efficient enough and that we are not working hard to reduce debt. Yes, I admit it doesn't go as fast as I thought before Putin invaded Ukraine, and I honestly say that we are considering three basic principles and I don't think either of them can be preferred. The first is social reconciliation, the second is the investment activity of the state and the third is, if possible, reduced state budget deficits. If we're stuck on just one of them, it's not gonna end well. So, yes, it doesn't go as fast as we thought, yet I suggested that next year the deficit be 270 and in the next two years 250 and 230 billion. It's not as fast as I wish, but it's not an entirely simple task, let's face it, it's not really that simple. Here's an MP asking about the morning if we have enough gas for this heat season. Yes, we do! He didn't, so he lied. [[unintelligible]] Yes, we do. I think it's pretty simple. If you look at the average consumption in each month over the past five years, of course, it depends a little bit on the average temperature of each month, so each of us can see what the average consumption in the summer months is in September, October, November, December - yes, about half or more than half of the annual gas consumption takes place from November to March, or from October to March, that's about 55 or 60 billion, that's true. We're still filling the mags, today it's about two billion cubic meters. Yes, even though it's ironic, we have contracted capacity in the LNG terminal in Holland, we competed with the routes, and if we need to, we'll buy the gas. That's just the way it is. [[10.30 hours]] Now that we've secured the initial energy, we're focusing on the price. Yes, once again, we can make a mockery of our efforts at a European solution. And let's say, frankly, if we were self-sufficient with all energy, like electricity, we might just choose a national solution, maybe a little selfish, but without risks. But we're not gas producers. And in those refineries that belong, yes, as you rightly say, PKN Orlen - they almost belonged to Mr Babiš too. I hear you came to the Treasury Secretary's office about 20 or 18 years ago to announce that you will not pay the purchase price, Mr Babish, through the President. I don't know, what's bothering you? That you didn't buy it and that someone else bought it? You blamed us for privatizing the former RWE. I think you described the property structure as it is today, quite precisely. You forgot to say which government privatized it. Not indulgence. What government privatized this? He's privatizing the government. He doesn't privatize the House or the Senate. It was Miloš Zeman's government. I'm not evaluating it, I'm just putting it in context. You, a loyal fan of Miloš Zeman, are actually criticizing the decision of his government without naming it. Then I'll add to it which government it was. It was Miloš Zeman's government. Unipetrol wanted to privatize you, Mr Babiš, through Madam President, no one else here in this honourable congregation had any interest in privatizing the refineries. Yet here you are yelling about how we privatized ourselves. [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] Was it a good decision? Was that the right decision? It wasn't. I'm the one who agrees. But when you wanted to buy it, it seemed like the right decision for the state. I'm not gonna describe and I'm not gonna read newspaper headlines like you. It's a shame you haven't mentioned whether it was from your paper or from some other newspaper. That when they say something about Andrej Babiš, notice, it's lies, rumors, campaigns, insults. But with the same taste of the same newspaper, he uses headlines against his political opponents. And all of a sudden, it's not lies, it's not a campaign, it's not slander, but it's a carved truth, because it might have worked out in agronomics. I don't know. He didn't say the sources. [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] To the former Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, who said so here that we should be kind enough to debate those points. I'm in. Let's just remember what happened last time. You've always given us, like, every nine months, opposition parties, I think sometimes three, sometimes four hours. About once every nine months, that's about 20 minutes a month. If we agree in gentleman terms that at each beginning of the meeting you will not speak for five hours to the draft program and that we will use it to discuss a problem that you think is good to debate - why not? If it's not enough for you to interpel, then okay, we can make a deal. But then you can't take the whole week's program into your own hands and leave nothing to the government. I think some gentlemen's agreement to discuss points is appropriate. We all understand how this vote will turn out. It is clear to me, because I was in opposition, that it is necessary to create a space of opposition to say her opinion, to address her constituents, that she has another idea that she is opposed, that she sees risks, and I don't know what all this is. But it can't be that you take the entire House of Deputies program and do nothing. And then you get very upset when we approach, for example, the limitations of speaking time. I don't want to speak for the whole coalition, I speak for myself, we can do that. If we say we'll approve the program in 30 minutes, then we can discuss a topic on which we agree for two hours. There's nothing wrong with that. On the contrary, I think that we too will be able to explain our steps, for example. And one more thing we have to say to each other is if we choose the selfish solution, and that's fuel. Whether the refineries are in private hands or at PKN Orlen or state, their production does not cover fuel consumption in the Czech Republic. And we're dependent on imports. So the simple solution is that we lock one commodity - we can. And what are we going to do if our partners react the same way and lock another commodity that we're just not self-sufficient in? And such advice: go negotiate and say we won't send you anything, but we believe that you will send it to us - well, that's excellent negotiating notes. I'd like to see who can negotiate it. I don't think anyone, even if they had cell phones for all the world's premieres, not just in Europe. [[Let's hear it for a few Members.]] Yes, it may not be possible to find a European solution. Maybe we can't find a European solution to tame high energy prices. But we're obliged to try. Next Friday is the Council of Ministers and next Friday afternoon we will know whether it was found or not. We, of course, are also working simultaneously on a national solution where there are actually two possible options. It will partly be a solution at European level and we can implement it, and we can add something to that. There will be nothing at European level and we will be dealing with it at national level. But there's no perpetuum mobile. Who else would want him more than a finance master? If I'm gonna break something, I'm gonna cut something down, and it's not gonna cost me anything - it's just a fairy tale. There's no such thing. And we ourselves must consider taking such a step. And if we do, we're gonna need to change the law, and we're gonna need the support of the opposition, if necessary. That's always better if such an extraordinary step were approved by a larger majority than the government's. Let's see. I hear here a lot about how to tax it and how it's actually similar to the ceiling. And then I hear right away when I suggest we discuss the windfall tax, so I hear from the opposition that he's against it. I don't think so! I respect that. But then at the same time, don't tell me to take the tax. It's either one or the other. I can't be against tax increases at the same time and advise the government to raise taxes at the same time. As a matter of fact, I can, I'm not entirely surprised, but it's hard to work with. The result of today's vote is clear. I think we all knew. But I still think it's useful that this debate has taken place and is going on. I think it is a good idea for citizens, for example, to compare the appearances of the former and existing Prime Minister regardless of who they vote for. [[Let's hear it for the Coalition MPs.]] And I understand that many did not have time to watch an 80 - minute speech and a 70 - minute speech. I understand that. But as I appreciated the work of our stenographers - who wants, can read it and can judge the reasoning level, facts, Czech, rather work with the language I would say rather than English, working with the language. [[Fun in the hall.]] And who's the master of discipline we shouldn't be seeing here. Those are lies, demagogy, and insult to their political opponents. Go ahead. Please read all the performances of Andrej Babiš and Petr Fiala. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u21	Thank you. And now it is with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm going to respond to the Minister of Finance's speech. First I'm going to take the simplest things that are going to be explained quite easily and quickly, and then I'm going to go to the more complex ones. So revers charge. Revers charge began to promote Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance in the fight against tax evasion, and I, as Minister of Finance, made it happen. If you look at the Ministry of Finance website, there's some date of 2019. Yes, it took nearly five years, because it was blocked by France because they wouldn't allow us to exempt from the value added tax with which they once... France was the cradle of this tax. They wouldn't let it happen. They just didn't want to explain that it was... I've dealt with the Treasury Secretary several times. Andrej Babiš dealt with him. [[10.40 hours]] Bilateral meetings were prosecuted (?). I've blocked, I've blocked some negotiations, I've vetoed, which is why unanimity is so important that we call here to move the negotiations around the reverse charge. Yes, we had reached about five years later, but it was Pyrrhův's victory because the effectiveness of the exemption started to be so, or ended, sorry, it ended up being less than two years before we discussed Czech legislation. I called the other day, and you will find the entry in the pages - I see the Minister of Finance is no longer here - on the pages of the Ministry of Finance, I have called the representatives of the unions and chambers. We used to communicate this way with representatives of unions and chambers. We didn't dictate it from the Ministry of Finance's residence. And there's a record of each other saying that under these conditions, they're not interested in reverse charge. So that's why this institute died in decline. But we, you know, next to reverse charge pushed through a surveillance report that wiped out carousel fraud after three years in this country. This was stated by the Attorney General at the time in his report. We've prepared the EET, it's you ideologically cursed EET. You were supposed to be on the budget committee this week, I was there, I went there very often as Secretary of Finance, you remember that. I don't see you there very often. And there came representatives, there came representatives of the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, Association of Industry and Transport and they clearly spoke and plotted in favour of EET. Even Březina, who is the head of the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, said: We are not voters YES, we are mainly voters of SPOLU, ODS, and yet we say at least let EET volunteer. You should have listened to it. But I'm sure there's a record of it, and I'm sure this week when EET's gonna be at second reading, we're gonna do it all over again. And don't question the benefits. I had clear figures from the Ministry of Finance, when after the first year of implementation of the EET, it was for accommodation and catering services, so in the area of catering services the average wage increased to double. Why was the average wage 12,000 before the introduction of the EET in the food sector and the average median wage was just around 24,000? Why? Do you have a legal explanation for that? I don't. That means the EET didn't just benefit from income tax. Of course, it was reflected in VAT, it was reflected in the selection of social and it was simply reflected in the further reduction of classified sales and so on. Let's do the numbers again this week. But you simply chose this institute as an ideological object, and therefore this unique digital project under your leadership must die. Mr. Kastner, representative of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, owner of several restaurants, I spoke to him personally, could not come because he fights for restaurants that perish as a result of their lack of energy. Maybe that's something you should be interested in. And he simply expressed himself clearly in the media to support the EET. This week, he said he was very disappointed in this government. So it's just to the edge. Well, you've opened up the budget issue. We'll deal with it, novel, this week. And so you've already put the budget for 2023 into eKLEP. Well, Minister, you're a budget wizard to me. Unbelievable. I've already got the chart processed. I won't... I'll deal with it next week, of course. I already have a comparison of the budget of the base for 2022, the budget of the amended budget of 2023. Otherwise, the budget for 2023 is not yet 270 billion, nor has your government approved it yet. She hasn't even voted on it yet. I wish you very warmly, Minister, really, I'm not an envious person, you can give me the qualities you want, I'm not envious, so I sincerely wish you'd rested on vacation. Honestly, no irony. I'm happy for you. I said no irony. But I can't imagine the Finance Minister going on vacation at a time when the budget is being negotiated! August is something that is always a working month for the Treasury Secretary. I know you said: we don't negotiate to meet, we do cameras, and so on. You don't have to go to the cameras, okay, don't go to the cameras. Even the Kalousek cursed, and I didn't agree with him many times, but he negotiated a budget. You must be talking to the ministers. The way it works for me, you're giving them the budget. Yesterday, my honored colleague Klára Dostálová asked Minister Bartoš if he knows that he has a budget cut off from some, I'm gonna find it now, hang on, it's gonna be right away, but I'm gonna have it exactly that from 31 to 17 billion. Well, he disappeared, he didn't answer. I think he might have gone looking for you to ask. I'll tell you one thing, I'll read you one incredible thing. Unbelievable. I'm passing now that I haven't found a whole series of mandatory attachments in that budget. Maybe, maybe, I'll get a good look at the eKLEP, so we'll talk about that when, uh, I think about 23 when the day's on. But I'll read to you... I'll read to you... as soon as I find it, hold on, it's too much information. There. Of course, there is a reminder procedure going on over the budget. Now I'm talking about the budget at 23. And now imagine, he was dealt with without comment, so there are no comments. That means no conflict, yes, I'm sorry. [[A note off the microphone.]] No conflict, you're right, I'm sorry about the wrong deadline. So the Minister of Transport doesn't mind having a minus 31 billion there. He answered my colleague here yesterday, and then it's even worse, as my colleague Havlíček informed me. Yesterday, he answered a question from my colleague Havlíček about how he was going to handle it. That my fan of measure said. Fan! What fan? Either he has the money or he doesn't have the money! I don't know any fans! And now I'm gonna read you a little seed bead, and there's gonna be more of those seed beads, and we're gonna say, when we're just gonna talk about it here, it's gonna be really cool. That's gonna be great, but I'll read you from the commentary procedure, as expressed by the regions, towns, municipalities. The draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic - I quote - does not contain specific figures for the year 2023 submitted in the commentary procedure. It is therefore very difficult to express itself in this commentary procedure, since, in particular, without the figures of the individual chapters of the State budget and the specification of binding financial indicators for the budgets of local authorities, it is not possible to estimate the implications for the budget of local authorities, which leads to uncertainty for municipalities as regards the structure and volume of the financial relations of the State budget towards their budgets. The missing information is essential for the local authorities and should be available in good time by law on the rules of budgetary responsibility. In view of the above reasons, the impact of the material submitted on the budgets of municipalities and cities cannot be expressed. So it turns out to me that it went into a no-number commentary! No numbers. That's why it's without contradiction! Well, that's when there weren't any numbers! Oh, shit! So how was the budget negotiated? You know, you guys are still pretending we were doing pie. But I've been sitting and negotiating hard. Karel Havlíček, when he came as Minister of Transport, he had with him, of course with his colleagues, so he had with him a stack of ready buildings and specifically declared how much money he needed. We weren't looking out the window, and we were increasing the investment. And then I'll take those items from you one by one. Right. Ministry of Regional Development. How much do you pay for housing policy? How much is given to regional development. We just had it there, and I'm going to compare it to our budget. [[10.50 hours]] So we're gonna enjoy the novel next week. Speaking of the novel - yes, we agree on helping Ukraine, I've got about 22 billion, you've registered the data, so I'm not questioning it. But when we talk about it, how come you're increasing the mandatorial expenses after a few months...? I don't know when it was approved... in March, and now we have, the government approved it a month ago, mandatorial expenses of over 16 billion. And I'm not talking about valorizing pensions, which is by law, I'm just talking about the fact that you had some amount in your budget for pensions, and suddenly you need it by 3.4. It's exactly what I wrote. That's how you get sick, that's how you get sick. Well, because you cut it! And you knew that you were about to be making a budget amendment and that somehow you would just compare it again. So that's the transparent policy. Yes, you're right, we're voting the VAT limit on $2 million. It was our job, I'm glad you made it. Road tax, excise duty, I'm not questioning anything. We raised our hand for everything. But remember, Minister, I'm sure you remember, we've had some informal conversations about this before, then we've been dealing with this here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we've canceled the super gross wage, that was the biggest amount. We canceled the super gross wage together. I stand by that step, it helps the employees, the great injustice, and the nonsense has been abolished, leaving it 7 percent pure in their wallets. And that, of course, was one of the major declines on the income side. We were both there - I didn't vote because I wasn't an MP, but I was the Finance Minister, and I pushed through and negotiated it on the Senate and so on, and it wasn't a simple compromise, but it did. And you forgot about it, you waved your hand like that and said, "You owe the land, you owe it." Don't forget. And when you mentioned the SAO here - and I'm not going to kick the SAO, I sometimes disagree with those opinions and I always say that to myself, but I remember how loudly the SAO did not agree with former finance minister Kalousek, I remember. And you will remember me too, there will come a time when you will not agree with the SAO's findings. It's not digging into an independent institution, it's simply expressing the opinion and insight of someone who's there. But the NKÚ, when you look at it, Minister, criticizes most of all the abolition of a super-gross wage. And maybe this is where you and I have to agree that we can't agree to this. And the National Budget Board - I won't comment. I've noticed that your budgets are already being criticized. So it's all about time. That you're not in a simple situation, I can see. We've been through a crisis, so I understand, but I'll ask you a question. Tell me, in the modern history of our country of ministers, how many have reached the surplus budget, the finance ministers? That's every finance minister's dream. I've been there, it's a very pleasant feeling, although, of course, it covered everything that followed. How many were there? Well, I'm sure you don't count a lot of them. If history, the way I looked at the springs, doesn't deceive me, it was Václav Klaus, Andrej Babiš, and it was me. And the covid came along, and the table where you smiled when Chairman Babiš showed it, the aid, the structure we didn't make up, the numbers we didn't suck out, ask the experts. The independent Bruegel Institute issued a methodology in that methodology, set how covido aid should be reported, and according to that methodology, the resorts always sent data every month and we finalized it at the Ministry of Finance. It was divided into three parts - tax aid, direct aid, that is, subsidies or compensation and so on, and then state guarantees guaranteed. So these are the relevant numbers, and we were comparing ourselves within those numbers within the European Union. I've talked a lot about how it turned out with energy aid that we're the second-to-last, and that's where we have the VAT waiver for November and for December, for which you publicly lynched me. So, Minister, if I look at your budgets, where's the consolidation? You promised her. Don't blame us for something here. You went to the election with the fact that you brutally indebted this country, slowly before bankruptcy, while we are the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union. And we've already explained the bonds. After all, bonds are purchased short-term, medium-term, long-term, and you have to buy a part of each portfolio, so sometimes they exceed it over 2021, as you say, because credit rating agencies are monitoring it. That's what we've been saying here before, and I'm happy to do it again. It's clear that your government debt is growing, because interest has risen, which is indisputable, although, of course, I always remember as the finance secretary that the finance minister finally saved something on the state debt. So we'll see what happens in the years to come. But when I looked at yesterday's cash flow and I saw how much revenue you had... 99.1... if I remember that, you had expenses there, I think 66 and something, so it just de facto happened to you that revenue inflationary. That's your consolidation, that you have 17.5 percent inflation, just mega-incomes. Look, now you've admitted the year 2022 127 billion, and by 2023, you've already got some 136.9, if I remember the numbers from yesterday exactly. If I was wrong about a dime, forgive me, I've had a long night here, so I don't have to say it exactly. I'll have it exactly on my budget. So where's your consolidation? Where? Nowhere! Where are the reforms to address the structural deficit? What you promised, how you'd handle it. Of course, you found out logically - why did you not apply the amendment of Vice-President Skopeček at the time, I believe, to our budget, the 80 billion? Why? - You're here. I was looking where you were. - Why didn't you apply him? [[Minister off the microphone.]] But they didn't. It's not used. It's not applied. I'm really gonna pull him out, Minister, and I'm gonna take the item after the item, and I'm gonna ask why you didn't take it out of it when you keep saying we had it. Yesterday, a colleague of yours fell in here, and I can't remember from whom they didn't want coalition partners to do it. Well, it's unrealizable what you had in there. So your entire consolidation is that you have a higher income. That's just crucial. And on top of what you've been training here, and not that you're planning any reforms, which is why quietly so far, quietly begins as gently, gently, but it doesn't matter, I'm not criticizing the intensity, the National Budget Board is starting to criticize you. And please sum up, and I'll tell you exactly, I've already got it now, figure out what debt you're planning, figure out the debt sector of the public finances, and then we can compare the numbers. And that, of course, is what we're going to be talking about about, the cuts that are in those fundamentals. Plus a windfall tax. Well, you were talking about energy, because I guess you're specialized in that, too. I will not lead any sophisticated debate on this subject, that is why our expert Karel Havlíček of the ANO movement is, but I do not understand one thing. So you say: we must wait for Europe. I don't want to, I don't want to be an evil prophet, I don't think you're gonna make a deal in Europe next week. We'll see, we'll tell each other, I wish you would. You won't talk. Then you say: we will consider national solutions. So maybe you could tell us what the national solution is. Don't go all the time thinking we're gonna make a suggestion, and you're gonna say, "You're stupid," that's nonsense. As your Prime Minister - he is no longer here - has said in the media several times: this is nonsense, the ceiling. Why? Why did the Slovák do it and have 61.2 since January 1st? Why do the Španěl, the Portugalec have the euro? In a megawatt hour, they have 40 euros? Why? So you'd rather scratch your right hand behind your left ear to keep those prices off the chain to tax them - I don't know what you're thinking, so far I've got information from an expert at the Chamber of Tax Advisors that it's a disaster, I haven't seen it yet, the proposal. [[11.00 hours]] I hear you want to read it as an amendment. We'll see, we'll have the debate, so now I'm just speculating. I don't know how the revenue got, it's income, which means the revenue shouldn't be until 2024. I can't imagine you doing it as a withholding tax. You may put some backups in there, I don't know, but I'm sure you'll have that return with a delay, even if I'm very curious about the calculations of the Ministry of Finance for this return. Instead of agreeing as you did in Slovakia, they said in Slovakia: we will either tax you or we will. So you just have to do something, because, Minister, every day I get texted by some businessman, I said here yesterday that he's quitting. Mr. Kastner has made it clear as a representative of this segment. That's what union representatives say, chambers. If the restaurant owner in Prague 5 had 30,000 backups and now he has 150,000, he won't tighten it. If a famous coffee shop on National Class has 200,000 backups now, they just can't support it on those coffees. So it's gonna fall like a dominatrix. It's not just eating. You have an area - we did not talk here - industry, food, glass and so on, my colleague Karel Havlíček spoke much more about it. Who's gonna pay you those taxes when the companies go down? Our philosophy was this: we help the economy, we help companies, it comes back to us. We have kept the lowest unemployment in the European Union, and we have maintained the social reconciliation. I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed, and I'm gonna wish you could keep it, too. But I absolutely don't believe it yet. Those companies that are gradually starting to close, they have employees. And those employees are gonna be out of a job. Then what will you do with this problem? I'd be happy to have an answer for that in the state budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u23	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. Before we proceed to the vote and to the next procedure, I will read the apologies. Minister Lipavský apologizes for the reasons of work today from 9.30 to the end of the day, and I have a statement that Mr Zuna is canceling his apology. And at this point, I'm handing the proceedings over to the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u24	We shall therefore proceed to the vote and, respectively, to the opinion of each and every one of you. So let me just remind you that according to § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for distrust. In order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government, the approval of an absolute majority of all Members is needed. I now ask the designated verifiers of this meeting, which are Member Stanislav Berkovec and Member Hayato Okamura, to take up positions at the rapporteur's table. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. I've drawn the name of our colleague Libor Turek. [[Noise in the hall.]] So we'll start with him. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. I would remind you that, under Paragraph 74 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the requested Member will say 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal', if he abstains from voting, he will say 'I am abstaining'. A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the Members who are called upon say their position loudly enough so that I may repeat them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. And now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote. Turek Libor: Against the proposal. Urbanová Barbora: Against the proposal. Válek Vlastimil: Against the proposal. Válková Helena: Proposition. Vích Radovan: For the proposal. Vlček Lukáš: Against the proposal. voborský Milada: Against the proposal. Vojtko Viktor: Against the proposal. Free Jan: For a proposal. Vomáčka Vít: Against the design. Vondráček Radek: For a proposal. vondrák Ivo: Not present. Vrána Petr: For a proposal. Excellent Marek: Against the proposal. Wenzl Lubomír: For a proposal. Wenzl, I presume. Not present. Zajíčková Renáta: Against the proposal. zborovský Miroslav: Excused, absent. zlínský Vladimír: Proposition. zuna Michal: Against the proposal. žáček Pavel: Against the proposal. Ženíšek Marek: Against the proposal. Adamec Ivan: Not present, excused. Adámková Věra: For the proposal. Babiš Andrej: Proposition. Babišová Andrea: Proposition. Babka Ondřej: Proposition. Bačíková Jana: Against the proposal. Balaš Vladimír: Against the proposal. Balaštíková Margita: Proposition. Bartoš Ivan: Against the proposal. Bartošek Jan: Excused, absent. Bašta Jaroslav: For a proposal. Bauer Jan: Against the proposal. Baxa Martin: Against the proposal. Beitl Petr: Against the proposal. Bělica Josef: For a proposal. Bělobrádek Pavel: Against the proposal. Bělohlávková Romana: Against the proposal. Bělor Roman: Against the proposal. Benda Marek: Against the proposal. Bendl Petr: Against the proposal. [[11.10 hours]] Benešík Ondřej: Against the proposal. Berki Jan: Against the proposal. Berkovcová Jana: Pro pro proposition. Berkovec Stanislav: For a proposal. Bernard Josef: Excused, absent. Blaha Stanislav: Against the proposal. Blažek Pavel: Against the proposal. Brabec Richard: Proposition. For a proposal. Brož Lubomír: For a proposal. Bureš Jan: Against the proposal. Bžoch Jaroslav: For a proposal. Carbol Jiří: Against the proposal. Cogan Josef: Against the design. Černochová Jana: Against the proposal. černý Oldřich: Proposition. Decroix Eva: Against the proposal. Dostálová Klára: Proposition. Dražilová Lenka: Proposition. Dubský Tomáš: Against the proposal. Dufek Aleš: Against the proposal. Dvořák Jaroslav: For a proposal. Exner Martin: Against the proposal. Faltýnek Jaroslav: For design. Farhan Kamal: Proposition. Not present, excused. Fiala Petr: Against the proposal. Fiala Radim: Proposition. Fialová Eva: Proposition. Fifka Petr: Against the proposal. Fischerová Romana: Proposition. Against the Josef. Foldyna Jaroslav: Pro pro proposition. Fridrich Stanislav: For a proposal. Gazdík Petr: Against the proposal. Golasowský Pavla: Against the proposal. Haas Karel: Against the proposal. Hájek Jiří: Against the proposal. Hájek Martin: Against the proposal. Hanzlíková Jana: For a proposal. Havel Matěj Ondřej: Against the proposal. Havlíček Karel: For the proposal. Havránek Jiří: Against the proposal. Helebrant Tomáš: For a proposal. Heller Šimon: Against the proposal. Hendrych Igor: For a proposal. Hofmann Jan: Against the proposal. Horák Jiří: Against the proposal. hrnčíř Jan: For a proposal. Mr Jáč Ivan: Mr Jáč? Not present. Jakob Jan: Against the proposal. Janda Jakub: Against the proposal. Janulík Miloslav: For a proposal. Jílková Marie: Against the proposal. Juchelka Aleš: Proposition. Jurečka Marian: Against the proposal. Kaňkovský Vít: I think he's excused. Not present, yes. Kasal David: Proposition. kašník Pavel: Against the proposal. Kettner Zdeněk: For a proposal. Klíma Pavel: Against the proposal. Knechtová Lenka: Proposition. Kobza Jiří: For a proposal. Kocmanová Klára: Against the proposal. Kohajda Michael: Against the proposal. Kohoutek Tomáš: For a proposal. Kolář Ondřej: Against the proposal. Collo-Return Martin: For a proposal. Koten Radek: For a proposal. Kott Josef, absent. Kovářová Věra: Against the proposal. King Václav: Against the proposal. králíček Robert: Proposition. Karel: Against the proposal. Krutáková Jana: Against the proposal. Kubíček Roman: For a proposal. Kubík Jan: For the proposal. Kučera Michal: Against the proposal. kuchař Jan: Against the proposal. Kukla Martin: Proposition. Kupka Martin: Against the proposal. Lacina Jan: Against the proposal. Lang Hubert: Proposition. Langšádlová Helena: Against the proposal. Vladimíra Vladimira: Pro proposition. Letocha Petr: Against the proposal. Levko Jarmila: Against the proposal. Lisová Martina: Against the proposal. Liška Petr: Against the proposal. I'm sorry. [[A meeting with an organizational department worker.]] Yes, I'm sorry. This is where the last name changed. Mrs Lisová married, changed her last name, and therefore Ochodnický today. And I'll come in. You're gonna pronounce yourself one more time. [[Let's hear it.]] Let's keep going, then. [[Rush in the hall.]] Let's keep going. It is now Mr Lochman Ondřej's turn to speak under a new name once more. [[Voice off microphone: Petr Fox.]] I've read Petr Liška. Isn't that right? The MP has already spoken. So there was still an irregularity, but just in case, I will ask Mr. Petr Liška again: Against the proposal. And we're moving on. And I apologize for this error, we have a list here that I have been given at my disposal with an uncorrected name, Madame. So now. So now Lochman Ondřej: Against the proposal. Mádlová Ivana: Proposition. major Martin: Against the proposal. Little Tatiana: Proposition. Maříková Karla: Proposition. Mašek Jiří: For a proposal. Metnar Lubomír: For a proposal. Michálek Jakub: Against the proposal. Mračková Vildumetzová Jana: She is excused, absent. Müller Tomáš: Against the proposal. Munzar Vojtěch: Against the proposal. Nacher Patrik: For a proposal. [[11.20 hours]] Naiclerová Hana: Against the proposal. He Navrátil Jiří: Against the proposal. Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka: Against the proposal. Novák Marek: For a proposal. Nováková Nina: Against the proposal. New Miloš: Against the proposal. Specialist Monika: For a proposal. Ochodnická Martina: Against the proposal. [[Rush and cheer in the hall.]] We've done it right. Okamura Hayato: Against the proposal. Okamura Tomio: Proposition. Okleštěk Ladislav: For a proposal. Olšáková Eliška: Against the proposal. Opltová Michaela: Against the proposal. Oulehlová Renata: For a proposal. Ožanová present, excused. Pastuchová Jana: For a proposal. Pekarová Adamová Markéta: Against the proposal. Against the proposal. Peštová Berenicka: For the proposal. Petrtýl František: For a proposal. Philipp Tom: Not present. Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla: Against the proposal. pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava: For the proposal. For a proposal. Potůčková Lucie: Against the design. Pražák David proposal. Quittová Petra: absent, excused. Rais Karel: Proposition. Rakušan Vít: Against the proposal. Rataj Michael: Against the proposal. Ratiborský Michal: For a proposal. Richter Jan: Proposition. Richterová Olga: Against the proposal. He Rozvoral Radek: For a proposal. Růžička Pavel: For a proposal. ryba Drahoslav: For the design. sadovskýý Petr: For a proposal. Salvetr Rudolf: Against the design. Schillerová Alena: Proposition. The power of Jan: For the design. Skopeček Jan: Against the proposal. Sládeček Karel: For a proposal. slavík Jiří: Against the proposal. Smetana Karel: Against the design. Staněk Pavel: Against the proposal. Stanjura Zbyněk: Against the proposal. strýček Jiří: Proposition. Stržínek a proposal. Svoboda Bohuslav: Against the proposal. Svoboda Pavel: Against the proposal. Šafránková Lucie: For a proposal. Šebelová Michaela: Against the proposal. Šimek David me, absent. špičák Julius: For a proposal. Štefanová Iveta: Proposition. Štolpa David: Proposition. telek Róbert: Against the proposal. Antonín Tesařík: Against the design. tureček present, excused. The vote is over. I ask whether all Members have been read, or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote. I don't see anyone applying. I therefore ask the verifier to tell me what time they need to find out the result of the vote. Twenty-five minutes. Okay. [[Rush in the hall.]] I will now suspend our negotiations for 25 minutes, within 11.50 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u25	It's 11:50 p.m., and I'm going back to our meeting. I beg you, colleagues, gentlemen, to keep it down. And now I ask the designated verifier to give us the result of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u26	The honourable leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, honourable and kind colleagues, the result of the vote is this: 84 members of our House voted in favour of the proposed resolution and against 100. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u27	I note that the Chamber of Deputies has not adopted the motion for a resolution. President Schillerová is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm not gonna comment on the applause. It's obvious. Government Members have expressed their confidence in this government, but I want to say that the trust of most citizens is no longer in this government. You follow the motto with thanks for every new morning. But your job is to serve people, and you've forgotten that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u29	The chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, is also registered with priority rights. The Party Club, I'm sorry, it's only 23 hours of negotiations to sign. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u30	So it is bad news for citizens of the Czech Republic that they failed to express their distrust of the government of Petr Fiala, because the government of Petr Fiala has no solution for the energy crisis in the Czech Republic. It has no solution to help citizens, and unfortunately millions of citizens will get into unsolvable financial and social problems due to Petr Fiala's government, Czech companies will fail and it is a tragedy for the nearest period of the Czech Republic. We, as the SPD, will continue to exert political pressure to put an end to Petr Fiala's government in order to leave. And it is really incredible that, for example, the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement, parties with organized crime, continue to hold on to their duties as ticks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-02-ps2021-036-02-000-000.u31	Madame Members, I do not see any more priority rights being used, no one reporting. Allow me, before I conclude this meeting, to thank the staff of the Chamber of Deputies. We have acted continuously for almost 23 hours, and I think our thanks for this quite exceptional service are well deserved. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] We have discussed the scheduled programme of the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I hereby conclude. Have a nice day. Goodbye.
