ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u1	53. Proposal of Members Patrik Nacher, Válková Váleková, Robert Králíček, Jaroslav Bžoch, Kamal Farhan, Marek Novák, Josef Kott and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German Press 48/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 48/1. prosit refer to Mr Patrik Nacher as the appellant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u2	Thank you. Thank you for including this point. I'll take this very briefly and then we can get back to it in second and third reading. This is an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure in the part that deals with how and who is invited to court after the citizen uses an out-of-court authority. I'll, I'll introduce it easily, very briefly. You will turn to financial arbitrary, ERÚ or ČTÚ. The citizen, the consumer, he wins, the institution calls off, then it goes classic to court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, to interrupt, but I'm asking you to calm down. Colleagues and colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u4	Then it goes classically to court, and the court can or may not invite the out-of-court authority. It often happens that the out-of-court authority, which means the financial arbiter, the CTU, the ERO, will not even know about it, and at that moment the citizen, the consumer, who is being sued, and he, of course, his ability to defend the resolution and the opinion of the out-of-court authority, is infinitely smaller than to defend the out-of-court authority. I warn you that when we put it together with Helena Válková and colleagues and the Ministry of Justice, it is not a sidekick of the market, a sidekick of the dispute, sorry, but the aim is that the out-of-court authority should have information that the court is taking place, so that he could better defend his own resolution, which does not always have to be 100:0 for consumers or 100:0 for the institution, sometimes he can only make part of it. In other words, the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the procedural position of specialised bodies, which will, as a result, also help the consumer. So much in brief, I don't want to delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u5	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Aleš Dufek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be even more brief than the translator. In fact, it is only about the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and the extension of authorisation, and I will specify here, the financial arbiter of the Czech Telecommunications Office, the Energy Regulatory Office in the proceedings where their decisions are reviewed. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Karel Haas has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u8	Madam President, fellow Members, thank you very much for the floor. I will also try to keep it brief on Friday afternoon. I would like to support this proposal in allowing it to continue its professional debate. Why does the proposal deserve that? I'll just give you three reasons why I support this proposal. For this crucial reason, I am a little different from the petitioners, and I will stress why. I would not like the flagship's justification for supporting this proposal to be consumer protection, because this would please deny you the independent role of the administrations whose decisions are being taken. The explanatory memorandum makes it sound a little bit as if consumer protection was the underlying reason for adopting this proposal. [[14.30 hours]] The reasons are basically three from my legal point of view. Firstly, I beg you, the active participation of the administrative authorities which have no procedural status today, they have neither the participation nor the status of the so-called person involved in the proceedings, they are simply invited to supply the administrative file and may make a written statement in the action. That's the only authority they have today. Since they are specialised bodies, the reason message is correct - ERÚ, ČTÚ, financial arbitrary, cadastral authorities and land offices in restitution, if I am not mistaken, it is these five specialised bodies - so they really have deeper expertise in their agenda than the general courts. That is simply the truth, that is, that is, the involvement, the more active involvement of these bodies in the proceedings under the fifth Civil Procedure Code will bring plus points to how the Czech municipal courts, because the Czech general courts will simply be confronted with the technical issue, and secondly, this will also bring positive plus points to the administrative authorities themselves, because they will again be confronted with the decision-making practice of the courts on their decisions. I think that's the most important argument. The second important argument: there is really a certain illogicality, where in the Czech dual administrative procedure in one pillar the administrative authorities have a chance of actually taking part in where they decide in public areas, so really the administrative authorities have participation in the proceedings and can actively defend their decisions. In this second pillar on private affairs according to Part Five of the Code of Civil Procedure, the administrative authorities do not have that option, that is to say, it is the elimination of certain illogicality. And the third reason: I really appreciate that, and I appreciate that, the proposal was prepared in principle in a similar range of procedural rights, as have so-called persons involved in the proceedings, that is to say, a secondary category of parties according to the administrative order, in accordance with Section 34. In principle, the scope of rights and obligations, procedural rights and obligations is identical. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-012-053.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debates. I'm asking the plaintiff for the final word. The rapporteur is also not interested. No proposals have been made, no rejections, no return, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I'll sing and call in my colleagues from the lobby.) First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I will rejoin and proceed to the vote. I ask, who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 96 Members and Members, for 90, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. I'm done discussing this point. I will add my apologies, Minister Lipavský apologizes from 14.15 to 9 for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a message: I am interrupting the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday, 25 October, at 14 o'clock. I would remind you that on Tuesday 18 October at 14 o'clock, the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. Have a nice weekend, everyone.
