ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-006-085.u1	85. Proposal for the election of members and alternate members of the Administrative Board of the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic I'll ask President kolovratník again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-006-085.u2	We will now fill the part of the Board of Directors of the VZP, which is nominated and elected by the House. The same law applies here, and the same deadline for the House to do so within 90 days of the setting-up meeting. I shall briefly state that on 11 January the electoral commission adopted your proposals according to the relative representation of the political parties here in the House. It adopted this in resolution 32 on the proposal for the election of members and alternate members of the Board of Directors of the VZP. [[13.40 hours]] I further note that subsequently, at the written request of the President, the convening of an extraordinary electoral commission pursuant to § 36 para. 2 we met again. The Election Commission has voted on a revision of the original resolution. You know that it was a request or a request from the Pirates' MP to re-nomination, using that section 77 paragraph. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on the possibility of grouping parliamentary clubs for election purposes, so that the electoral commission did so and accepted new nominations. That was February 4, 2022, resolution 38. Right here and for the record, I'm saying that the electoral commission didn't vote unitedly. The vote was: for 9, against 4, they abstained from 2 and 1 without comment, but this resolution was adopted in that new form, and the ten-day deadline between the Commission and the choice is respected at the moment, and we can implement the VZP. For the screen recording - here I apologize, I must quickly read the new proposals to be registered, so according to alphabetical order the proposals of 20 members of the Board of Directors of the VZP. According to the alphabet: Věra Adámková for YES, Michal Bláha for pirát and starosta, Milan Brázdil for YES, Lenka Dražilová for YES, Jaroslav Dvořák - SPD, Kamal Farhan for YES, Pavel Hroboň - pirát and starosta, Miloslav Janulík - YES, David Kasal - YES, Tomáš Mach - SOLU, Ivo Mareš - SOLU, Michaela Matoušková - pirát and starosta, Zdeněk Němečková Crkvenjaš - SPOLU, Jaroslav Novák - SPD, Jana Pastuchová - YES, Tom Philipp - SPOLU, Bohuslav Svoboda - SPOLU, Vít Ulrych - SPOLU, Pavel Východský - pirát and starosta, Marek Ženíšek - SPOLU. Second point. The House also elects VZP replacements. There is a law that says there must be at least 3 of them, the House proposed 8 of them: Andrea Babišová for YES, Iveta Borská for pirát and starosta, Pavel Jelínek for SPD, Aleš Juchelka for YES, Bára Malíková - pirát and starosta, Jiří Páral - pirát and starosta, Ferdinand Polák - SPOLU and Jiří Skalický for SPOLU. The Election Commission proposes to make a public election by means of a voting device, the term of office of the members shall be four years in accordance with the law and shall begin today on the date of the election. That's everything from me to this point. Please open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-009-03-006-085.u3	I am opening a debate in which I am once again not registering any application, so I am ending the debate, and if there is no interest in the final word - but I think you have summed it up in an exhaustive manner - I will also begin the vote on the proposal. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 96 185 Members and Members were enrolled, for 176, against none. The proposal has been adopted and we can end this point with this. And I'm opening point number
