ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended, and Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended /house print 76/ - second reading I will ask once again that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Transport, Mr Martin Kupka, on behalf of the appellant. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, even in this case, the draft law presented is aimed almost exclusively at implementing European Union legislation into national law, namely the Directive on road infrastructure safety management, including the amendment to this Directive, the Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the cross-border exchange of information concerning the non-payment of road charges in the Union and subsequent directly applicable regulations. The draft law can be divided into three areas from the point of view of its content. The first is the management of the safety of selected roads in their design, construction and operation, the second topic - providing a European electronic toll service and finally providing information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations. As part of the first reading, we have already discussed the specific impact of the amendment, when it brings an extension of the obligations in the case of the design of new road constructions, when it will also be necessary for first-class roads, as well as for sections of second and third-class roads co-financed by the European Union, to come up with new security studies, or audits, with the fact that, even in the debate, we have mentioned that this is a new obligation, which will contribute to greater security, as well as key players such as regions, are willing to do so, because they are already obliged to do so in those projects that they are preparing, if it is funded by the European Union, at the same time, such audits and such security measures. In the field of the provision of the European electronic toll service, there are partial changes in the obligations of the provider of the European electronic toll service. I shall mention a single amendment which is not based on Union law, which is the abolition of the obligation to equip a vehicle with electronic equipment in an electronic toll system in respect of a vehicle exempted from charging, that is, if it has a military registration mark, a registration mark of an electric vehicle or a special registration mark of a historical vehicle. It is a bill submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in its previous term of office, but there has been no discussion in the whole legislative process. The Economic Committee has adopted an amendment to the bill concerning the extension of the possibility of general use of roads by oversized vehicles, as well as for the domestic transport of working machinery used for repair or maintenance of roads, and I must add that the Ministry of Transport also agrees with this adjustment. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u3	Thank you, Minister of Transport. I will merely say that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the economic committee as a committee of guarantee, the committee resolution was delivered as House prints 76/1 and 2 and I will now ask the rapporteur of the economic committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any amendments which I will also ask her to justify. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at its 6th meeting on 31 March 2022, the Economic Committee first discussed the timetable for the discussion of this press and then discussed it at its 7th meeting on 14 April 2022, adopting the following resolution. "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of Deputy Minister of Transport Jakub Kopřiva, the report by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and after a general and detailed debate: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House press 76 as amended by the approved amendment" - I will read it because it is short: "In Part One, Art. The following point shall be inserted after point 53: 1 the following shall be added at the end of point (b) of the text: or the domestic transport of working machinery used for the repair or maintenance of roads or the domestic journey related to the transport of such working machinery, the following points shall be numbered; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this proposal in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." So much for discussing the press on the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u5	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, and I will now allow myself to open a general debate. I have no registered application, I see that Mr Martin Kolovratník is reporting from his seat at the moment. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u6	I'm sorry, I put it in last minute, and it already showed up. I'll be much more brief here than the previous law, but I also feel the need to respond here, let's say, to its content. As the Minister said, it is the implementation of European law again, we are changing Act No. 13/1997, this is actually the basic one that describes, defines infrastructure, but first of all, we're changing two other laws, no. 56/2001 on conditions of operation on roads. This is a comprehensive law that primarily addresses the issue of technical inspection stations, registration checks and much more. Here's the information, we talked about it with the Minister, that there will also be a bigger amendment to this law, but it is not the subject of this. And there's a number. 168/1999 on insurance, where it could also be a completely different topic, on compulsory liability, on who removes obstacles on motorways and the like, but it would be incorrect of me to open this topic here at second reading for this European implementation, and we will get to it when those laws - let's say they are government bills - come here in plenary. What I want to say. First of all, increasing security, security audits on infrastructure, I've already said it here and explained it at first reading. Again, it would be incorrect and unnecessary to repeat it here on purpose or unnecessarily again. We're seeing this from a position point of view as very beneficial. When we looked at the law, we found no reason for any amendments or modifications. Indeed, it is based on the practice when proven statistics, on the results of the accident, showed that communication of the highest class, i.e. primarily highways and first class roads, if they are already undergoing a safety audit by experts during the planning process, but then they are also subject to those audits during the course of use, that it has a proven good, positive impact on the reduction of accidents and also on the reduction of consequences, the serious consequences of traffic accidents. [[12.00 hours]] The Union, when inspired by this, said: Let us extend this to other roads - especially those of the regional - second and third classes. I told you. It requires some increased costs, but relatively small, and in turn there are a lot of statistics and economic evaluations that such a thing, the costs that the state will issue, I say, in the overall budget of the SFDI are really marginal and to reduce the externalities and the impact it will bring back to us very, very many times. So clearly on our part support and there is no need to say more. But what did not sound at first reading or at the Economic Committee is the second part, and that is the introduction of a European electronic myth service. I could freshen things up a little bit, co-workers, a little bit, a little bit. The word "EET" is a red rag for you from the government coalition and what you do not want, what you defend and will defend. The shortcut here is very similar and it's EETS. It comes from English and the shortcut EETS really introduces, here describes the European service of electronic myth. For your idea, it's interoperability and, in a simple way, what we're used to as citizens on mobile phones is that wherever you're going around Europe and, in fact, the world in roaming, your phone works everywhere and deals with that foreign network. This means you don't have to have other hardware, other phones or other SIM cards. The carriers still don't have it, or more or less they do, and they don't have a little bit. If you've ever looked at a gas station in practice, you've gone around a truck, so you can see it beautifully on the windscreens, as there may be dozens of boxes, but definitely units, maybe small dozens, as they have a lot of them, and that's a great administrative burden for individual companies, individual carriers, that in short, for each Member State they go through, they must have such equipment. And so I must say, thank God, that we are finally going through this and improving the functionality of the European electronic myth in the Czech system. Let me just point out that we have a hell of a time, because the deadline for implementing this law was until 17 December last year. Of course, we all know that, even if we are late, if the Czech State proves that we are late, but the legislative process is already underway in a non-conflict, without any problems, so that no sanctions or sanctions against us will be imposed. We know it will be accepted very briefly. And here's the myth that it has to do with him. When I looked at statistics, even though we had covid, that we had a crisis with Ukraine, last month, in March, we had the most historic toll collection here in the Czech Republic. For your idea, the carriers passed the toll in March after tolling roads for a total of CZK 1 billion 353 million. Annually, this is a higher yield of 5.35%. And only the transactions themselves, the absolute number of transactions for March, were CZK 98 million. So imagine how huge these numbers are. Now, I'm gonna take a little turn, then I'm gonna go back to the idea of a European myth. I am glad that Zbyněk Stanjura has just arrived as Minister of Finance, and so I will wish, and here the sentences are said from me again in a good, helpful, positive tone, that if the toll collections are, and it is likely to be, this good and high in the next months - in April, May, June - so that if by the Minister of Transport, of course, colleagues, between the two of you, it is not a topic for me as an opposition Member, if there are discussions about updating the budget of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, we talked about it last night, so I believe for the Minister of Transport that the Minister of Finance will be helpful in this regard, and when he sees the proceeds of the myth that it will be helpful to the Czech transport infrastructure, whether road or rail. And the last sentence, let it have structure, what I wanted to say. This European e-myth service really makes life a lot easier for drivers, Czech drivers and our companies. In short, they won't have to have that much equipment and administration. It is all about the fact that one system to which they are logged in, in our case it is a current satellite toll, no longer using the gates, but using the satellite and GPS system, as set up today, CzechToll and SkyToll, you can see that - and now I will mention it and I have to say it, right behind the ANO movement, we managed to compete, get it working very well, works very well, works well, it is underlined by those revenues - so such a system is primarily, in fact, from my philosophy, from its setting, primarily set up to enable Czech companies and Czech drivers to operate with one device in Europe, if they are moving or have orders in those foreign countries. And that's actually connected to the competitiveness I was talking about a while ago. So for us, for the opposition party, there's definitely support for this bill. We have no reason to block it or to make amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u7	Thank you, too. I remind you that we are in a general debate. I am now calling for an application from the place where Mr Karel Sládeček is reporting. Ambassador, please come to the speaker's desk. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u8	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out here that not only the improvement of the technical characteristics of vehicles which contribute to the reduction of the number of persons injured and killed in road accidents but also the improvement of road safety characteristics on road roads is essential in order to reduce the number of persons injured and killed. The Infrastructure Safety Directive has therefore come up with a set of tools to help achieve this objective, through an impartial and expert assessment of road safety at the stage of their design, construction and operation, as well as through the adoption of corrective measures leading to the removal of identified problematic sites that are dangerous from the point of view of road users. For this reason, the SPD again supports this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-004-003.u9	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I look around the hall, I see no one, at this point I end the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? It is not from the Minister of Transport, nor from the rapporteur. I would now like to start a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. I'm not filing any applications, but I'm going to ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate from the scene? I look around, I don't see anyone, so at this point, I'm ending the debate in detail. But do I have to ask if there is an interest in the final word from the Minister of Transport? Isn't she, on the part of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee? Not either. So at this point, I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister of Transport and the rapporteur. And now we have a meeting item number
