ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u1	78. Government bill amending Act No. 370/2017 Sb., on payment services, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 68/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Committee on Budgets, Mr Patrik Nacher, take the position of the rapporteur for the plaintiff. The proposal for rejection and amendments were not tabled at second reading. I ask the appellant if he is interested in the debate? I see you do. I'll ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would just say very briefly and remind you what the bill is about. It is a service of dynamic exchange, it is a service that our citizens can use abroad or tourists in the Czech Republic. The problem there is that very often there was a very disadvantageous course. This bill brings a solution to the fact that the Czech National Bank, the traders of the Czech Trade Inspection, would supervise exchange offices or ATMs. There really was no amendment, however, because of the parallel discussion of two prints, one legislative technical regulation will be needed, which the rapporteur will then read in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am now opening up the debate in which the rapporteur is signed up. Yes, the rapporteur is reporting. We would prefer the rapporteur and then Mr Jan Síla is signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u4	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have arrived with press 68 in the final vote. First I will briefly show you what has happened, then I would describe briefly what is going on, and then I would read the amendment, which is really legislatively technical, because there has been a co-operation of prints 68 and 61 - that is the law on pan-European pension products. We have to do this here, we have to change it, or it wouldn't make sense, it's just one letter change. In the end, you will be pleased, the vote will be very simple - just about the amendment and then about the law as a whole, because other amendments have not been announced and tabled. This was first discussed by the Committee on Budgets on 19 January, when we set a deadline until 2 February for the submission of amendments. On February 2, we met again, we stated that no amendments were tabled. Then the second reading took place, and on 9 February we approved unanimously in the Committee on Budgets, where I will now formally have to read that after the opening words of Deputy Finance Minister Dušan Hradil, my report and after the debate "the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill amending Act No. 370/2017 Sb., on payment services, as amended, and other related laws, or House printing 68, agreed." It empowers the rapporteur, i.e. me, to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, so I am doing so. So much in brief, as the law took place in the Chamber of Deputies. As far as I am concerned, I will follow up on what the Minister of Finance has said - the law actually concerns the service we know under the abbreviation DCC - the dynamic currency exchange, which is most often known and encountered by ATMs, but it is also possible to use with a trader. The problem with the dynamic shift was that even as it sounds, how it makes people and clients feel that it's better for people, when they click on it, they agree to it, they have a better course. However, the opposite is true, it is extremely disadvantageous. There's no way to go back to that, to claim it in any way, and so on. I personally pointed out this issue - frankly, I did - ten years ago. It is developing beautifully, it has some delays within the European Union. However, I am glad that it has come here and that we have the opportunity to react in some way. As promised at first reading, we should also address awareness in relation to consumers, so that they know that the law is changing here. So I wanted to ask the Chairman of the Banking Sub-Committee, my colleague, to call a round table or seminar to discuss it again and indeed spread among people that they would no longer be caught so easily and that they had the chance to defend themselves. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The law now, just so you know, is the law on payment, but it also goes into the law on the Czech National Bank, and into the law on the financial arbiter. When it comes to control mechanisms, he'll control it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u6	Thank you. I'm just trying to describe it briefly here, because you go abroad too, you can run into it and it would be good to inform your friends and neighbors about what to watch out for, who to turn to. The Czech National Bank has regulatory supervision at ATMs, it is ČOI with traders. That means we know what he's touching and who's touching. The basic two parameters I would briefly name, which is qualitatively changing: on the one hand, that there is some regulation, some supervision, which was not so far with the DCC, and the other is some penzum of mandatory information that the client has to see on the screen, that is, what is the course there, how this course differs from the official course, in this case declared by the Czech National Bank, what is the difference in how much less the client gets. I would like to compare this to certain information obligations that we have approved here in the last term of exchange offices, so that there is a clear information obligation for clients, that they can cancel within three hours, that the basic information hangs there, as it is advantageous for clients, as it differs from the central exchange rate and so on, because information is often a better tool than to regulate and forbid something. So there's an awareness and surveillance activity around this. So much for the actual design and provision of this service dynamic currency exchange. As regards the amendment, the point is that in part - and I would therefore read it here - in part 4, Art. In points 1 and 2, the originally supplemented point (k) is added as point (n). That's the whole change, which is why it's a legislative technical matter. What happened? We're dealing with print 68 here, but in the meantime, press 61 was approved, which is the law on pan-European pension product, which also reached into the Act on Financial Arbiter, and there he changed, added letters k) to m) in Section 1 in paragraph 1 and paragraph (?) paragraph 3, which led to the fact that we now need to put a letter (n) in order to follow up on the letters that we have already approved with the financial arbiter, in the pan-European pension product, as I said, where it was added to k) to m) newly. So we have to do it as m) to bring it together, so this is what I'm loading here. [[10.30 hours]] The voting procedure, as I have already said, will then be simple. First, we should vote on this amendment of a legislative technical nature and then on the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I've reduced it to maximum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u7	Yes, we thank you, too, Mr rapporteur. Mr Jan Síla is now registered and then President Alena Schillerová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I have prepared some commentary on this House of Press 68, which, unfortunately, my previous speaker has actually listed all my comments, so I will mention only the advantages and disadvantages and the SPD's position on this House of Press here and here on this proposal. The benefits of a dynamic currency exchange are clear. First, it is the removal of non-transparency in the provision of services of dynamic currency exchange. The stability of the business environment and supervision will be carried out by supervisory authorities focused on a specific type of entity, that is to say the Czech National Bank, and as has already been mentioned here, the Czech Trade Inspection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment. Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is on the initiative of the rapporteur, or Patrik Nacher, who asked me to ask for peace in the Chamber, that he too wants to listen to the Member of the Force, so I would like to ask you very much, and if there is something you need to take care of in order to go to the lobby. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u10	Thank you. The negatives here in this adjustment are new obligations for supervisory authorities. Secondly, it is the solution to the dispute related to the service of dynamic currency exchange, it is the responsibility of the financial arbiter, his people. Due to the fact that foreign tourists most often meet with the DCC service in the Czech Republic, who are in many cases unhappy with the use of this service, and complaints do not make a good name in the Czech Republic, it seems desirable to extend the power of the financial arbitrary to resolve the dispute arising from the provision of dynamic currency exchange services. I wanted to mention this point here, this has not been mentioned here, that it is surprising that the government's draft state budget does not respect the fact that, on the one hand, it imposes additional tasks on the financial arbiter, with a reduction in the amount to that institution in its chapter. That means, he'll be more busy, they'll be getting less money for it. The next is the licensing procedure and its length. It is proposed to eliminate certain licensing requirements imposed on small-scale payment service providers and the publisher of small-scale electronic money while adding some new ones. If there is a requirement that does not need to be met at the time of submission, the application may be lodged and met during the procedure. Secondly, the authorisation may also be requested by a legal person who has not yet originated, a time frame is specified from when the authorisation decision has to be created since the acquisition of legal power. The introduction of a complaint management system and user complaints will no longer have to be demonstrated during the proceedings, but only after granting a permit to operate. That means speeding up the process. A requirement shall be added for the credibility of the applicant and for the granting of an authorisation for the activities of his management and persons who have qualified participation in it. The benefits here are: firstly, greater protection against the risks associated with money laundering and terrorist financing, and secondly, stability of the business environment. This also brings the negatives, of course - and it is necessary to demonstrate compliance with new licensing requirements. Fourthly, the adjustment of access to payment accounts held by credit institutions to non-banking payment service providers. This proposed adjustment aims to improve the access of non-bank providers to payment accounts intended to protect the funds entrusted to clients. Moreover, the adjustment provides that credit institutions will be able to terminate the obligation to withdraw from the payment account contract or to withdraw from the contract only if they have a reason which is objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate or is the reason for the AML/CFT. In fact, non-bank payment service providers are de facto dependent on whether a credit institution will conduct a payment account for them - as soon as a statement is made, a non-bank payment service provider may not be able to continue to provide its services to clients. The benefits here of this adjustment are the removal of shortcomings in application practice, ensuring a competitive business environment, supporting new payment methods that can lead to more services offered, and reducing the prices offered to clients. Negatives: extending the existing obligation of credit institutions. It is also necessary to explain some of the terms used in this DCC legislative regulation. Dynamic currency exchange is a service that can be offered when collecting cash from an ATM, as my previous speaker said, to pay by credit card at the trader, if the amount of the payment transaction is charged in a currency other than that in which the buyer's payment account is held. Czech customers will therefore meet this service most often abroad, in the Czech Republic foreign tourists can meet it. The operation of the dynamic currency exchange service when paying by credit card will show information on whether the customer wishes to pay in foreign currency, as has already been said here, I will not repeat this. In an ATM, the dynamic currency exchange service works similarly. We will present as an example of a Czech tourist with a payment account kept in Czech crowns, which is valid with a trader in Germany. At the payment terminal, the customer must choose whether he wishes to pay in euro or in Czech crowns in case of a dynamic currency exchange service offer. In the case of the choice of the first option, the amount is paid in the currency of the state of the trader, i.e. in euro, and when converted into Czech koruna, the exchange rate used is determined by the payment service provider of the seller, namely the bank where the seller has a payment account. The disadvantage may appear to be that the customer does not know at the moment the exchange rate to be used by the bank in the payment transaction. The amount of the transaction may not be deducted from the customer's payment account for several days, i.e. at a time when the exchange rate may be completely different. If the customer chooses the second option to use the existing dynamic currency exchange service, he will immediately see the amount of the transaction in his domestic currency, that is, in Czech crowns, and on his payment account will be blocked exactly this amount. At the same time, the customer is shown the exchange rate that will be used in currency exchange. I have a few comments here on the definition of what a trustworthy person is and so on, but that is not relevant. I just want to sum it up. The aim of the legislation in question is to regulate the law on payment systems so as to remedy certain shortcomings which have arisen in practice. This is mainly about making the supervision of the provision of a dynamic currency exchange service more efficient, as well as extending the power of the financial arbitrary to the given area, which will result in an improvement in consumer status. In the second effect it will be as an increased initiative, increased work for a financial arbiter, which will have less money for it. Furthermore, it is a flexible licensing procedure and improved enforcement of the right of access for non-bank payment service providers to a payment account. The area of legal punishment is also undergoing a change. Furthermore, a new category of licensed entity will be introduced, which is linked to the supervision of the provision of a dynamic change service. We believe that we have discussed this issue as this press 68 on the club, and we have all agreed for these reasons that we will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I remind you that we are in the debate to the law at third reading. At this point, I would like to read the cancellation of Mr. Andrej Babiš's apology today from 12:30 p.m. And at the moment, it is registered with the priority right of the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Knowing we're in third reading, I'm just gonna take a few words. Of course, for the YES movement, I say we support this amendment. It is a technical amendment, but its adoption is desirable, because the previous legislative form contained some minor uncertainties, defects or imperfections or application problems, which then appeared just during the actual application of the law. The Payment Service Act, which took effect on 13 January 2018, aims to adjust the terms and conditions for the provision of payment services and the issuance of electronic money, and also to regulate the conditions for the pursuit of such activities and the private relations arising from such operations. This is one of the areas where harmonisation of the process at transnational level is absolutely necessary, so that the proposed amendment is in line with European regulations with regard to payment arrangements and specifies the transposition of the Payment Account Directive and the PSD Directive. Among the changes introduced by the amendment, I can name, above all, the adjustment of access to payment accounts held by credit institutions to so-called non-bank payment service providers or to increase transparency in the provision of dynamic currency exchange services, while at the same time this amendment opens up a relatively complicated process of obtaining licensing procedures. It also introduces a new licence category of the service provider of the immediate transfer of the amount charged to the currency to which its payment account is held, the so-called dynamic currency exchange, which is something that we have long sought and which is certainly very beneficial. Parallelly, and this is also positive, it contributes to better supervision of institutions that provide payment services and introduces partial changes in licensing requirements for electronic service publishers. I also have a positive assessment of the newly introduced requirement for small-scale payment service providers to demonstrate their credibility and credibility of other tightened-up persons. That is why I think that, given current global political and geopolitical changes, greater protection is welcome against the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. We will definitely support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Now I'm going to ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? I see no one, so at this point I am ending the debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? First of all, for the plaintiffs, Mr. Finance Minister, is he interested? No, thank you. The rapporteur of the guarantee committee is interested in the final word? [[Yes.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u14	Yes, thank you. Well, I'd rather load again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u15	I'll ask you to do that later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u16	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u17	At this point, I asked for the final word. So if there's no interest in the final words, I'll ask the rapporteur for the guarantee committee to brief us on the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u18	Okay. As I said in my opening speech, when I introduced the standard, the content of where it is heading, and I have read the legislative technical amendment here, so we would vote twice, that is, about this legislative technical proposal and then about the bill as it was presented as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u19	Yes, thank you. We will vote on this procedure first. I'm the one who got the gong. We'll wait a little longer. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm gonna have to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up again with your voting cards. I've been gonging three times, I'll try again. We will wait just a moment for the number of Members and Members to settle. So at this point, we're going to vote on the proposed voting procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? Thank you for the vote. In voting number 30, 164 Members signed up, 164 for the vote, no one opposed, no one held up. The motion was accepted. So we approved the voting procedure. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to present the first proposal on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u20	It is a legislative technical proposal that I have read here, and again, to make it clear to everyone in the part concerning the amendment of the Financial Arbiter Act, what was added under letter (k) will be added under letter (n), because in the meantime we have approved something else where the other letters were added.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u21	So it's legislatively technical. I'll ask the Minister of Finance for an opinion. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I will also ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee for an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u22	No, we didn't discuss it. I'm the one who reported it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u23	Okay, thank you. Initiating vote. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? In voting number 31, 165 Members were enrolled, 165 were in favour, no one opposed, no one stayed. The motion was accepted. And now, Mr President of the Guarantee Committee, we will vote on the bill as a whole. I'll just confirm it with you. And now I would like to make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 370/2017 Coll., on Payment Service, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 68, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? In vote number 32, 165 Members were enrolled, 165 were in favour, no one opposed, no one stayed. The proposal has been adopted, and I am stating that the bill has been approved. I would like to thank the Minister at this time. I am done discussing this point and thank the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyňka Stanjur, and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Patrik Nacher. We've dealt with point 78.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u24	Thank you, and I hope this ends with a dynamic currency exchange as a way to rob clients. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-002-078.u25	And now, according to the approved program, we're going to be dealing with a point number.
