ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications and on the Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as amended /German press 161/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government's proposal for a law which amends Act No No. 452/2001 Coll., on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as amended. This proposal was prepared by the Industrial Property Office in order to fulfil the legislative obligations of the Czech Republic arising from its membership of the European Union and is presented to the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of the coordination function of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in relation to the IDA. This proposal adapts the text of Act No. 452/2001 Coll. to Regulation 2019/1753 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on measures of the Union following its accession to the Geneva Act of Lisbon on designations of origin and geographical indications which entered into force on 13 November 2019, and to further Regulations concerning the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications which are in the exclusive competence of the Union. At the same time, the proposal responds to the conclusions expressed in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union C-389/15, according to which the double-trackness of the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications must be removed in cases where such a designation is granted exclusive protection by Union law. The proposed proposal thus repeals the national arrangements for the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, including wine and spirits, for which the protection of designations of origin is governed by several directly applicable European Union rules. [[16.10 hours]] The draft law also reflects the fact that the accession of the European Union to the Geneva Act makes it possible to obtain, in addition to the protection of the Union and international protection, designations of origin registered by the Union. The proposed legislation assumes that the Czech Republic will also accede to the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement, with which the Chamber of Deputies has already agreed on 16 September 2021. The draft law sets the time limits for the submission of an application for Union registration and requests for international registration so that applications can be processed in a timely manner and that the continuity of the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs resulting from the national and international registration so far is maintained. At the same time, this proposal ensures the timely fulfilment of the notification obligations of the Czech Republic as a Member State of the European Union under that Regulation 2019/1753. In addition to these amendments, the proposed proposal contains only minor legislative technical adaptations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this material. At the same time, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies agree to this draft law at first reading, in order to ensure the protection of the rights of users of existing national designations of origin and agricultural indications, and also in view of the forthcoming deadline laid down in Regulation 2019/1753 in order to comply with the Member State's notification requirement regarding the application for Union or international registration. The bill is presented repeatedly to the Chamber of Deputies, because in the previous parliamentary term the Chamber of Deputies failed to approve it in time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Michael Rataj. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u4	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have been instructed to introduce you to House Press No. 161. As Minister Síkela has already said, this is a government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications, and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as amended. He was prepared by the Industrial Property Office as co-gestor of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in order to fulfil the legislative obligations of the Czech Republic resulting from membership within the European Union. The main objective of the proposal is to eliminate the double-track nature of the protection of designations of origin in favour of Union protection and to abolish national protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, including wine and spirits. Currently, several thousand items of designations of origin and geographical indications registered by national means or under the Lisbon Agreement are registered in the registry databases, for which it is often impossible to determine whether they are still used by an authorised user. The major part of the entries dates back to the 1970s and subsequent years of the 20th century and currently does not meet the requirements of the current European Union law for registration. That proposal therefore repeals national provisions on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications in cases where such a designation is now provided for Union protection and eliminates unjustified differences in qualitative requirements for national and Union parameters for designations of origin and geographical indications for those products and foodstuffs. As the Minister has already said, the bill further reflects the fact that the accession of the European Union to the Geneva Act allows, in addition to the protection of designations of origin or geographical indications under Union law, the protection of international for legally registered designations. For example, it is a designation such as Budějovický Budvar, Žatecký hop, Pardubický methník or Třeboňský carp. Finally, I note that the proposal submitted is in the interests of Czech farmers and food producers, as it ensures the protection of their products at international level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and please take your place at the rapporteur's table. I am now opening up a general debate to which Mr Novák has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will read, yes, I will read my words that I have prepared for you myself, and surprisingly I have come to support this proposal, to commend it, because finally after a long time we have received a directive from the European Union which has a really positive impact on our entrepreneurs, businessmen, farmers, and for that I have come to commend you, because it is precisely the protection of names such as Olomouc shapes, Zatec hops and many others will strengthen this act. It should also be said that the new free trade agreements of the European Union with third countries that are regulating this area are also gradually increasing. This creates new business opportunities for holders of this kind of intellectual property rights both at Union level and specifically in the Czech context. Last February, the European Union acceded to a new enlargement of the Lisbon Agreement The World Intellectual Property Organization, the so-called Geneva Act. The Czech Republic has the possibility of independent access, and that is what is important to us today. From earlier they have protection of Parma ham or Czech beer. Protection of designations of origin and geographical indications has a long tradition in Europe and, in particular, in the Czech Republic, and let us be glad that the Czech Republic is still preserving and will be able to maintain its traditions. Champagne wine, port wine, Parma ham, Czech beer or Olomouc shapes represent only a fraction of the most famous examples in the total number of hundreds to thousands of these products, whose high quality, reputation or specific characteristics are linked to a particular place or region. Contrary to the trade mark, the geographical indication of origin may also be granted to associations of rights holders, not only to one entity. Holders are not even obliged to renew the registered name after a period of time. Geographical names are protected against imitation by registration in a public register and are a guarantee of quality for consumers. The most common are wines, spirits, beers and various other foods. But non-agricultural products also fall here, and here we must remind you that we also have Czech treasures as a Czech grenade or vamber lace. However, unlike products of agricultural origin, they are not protected by European legislation in the European Union. In many cases, these markings have undisputed economic and cultural value, contribute positively to tourism and provide a unique story sought after by consumers. And that's what makes them more attractive. The Czech Republic has over 70 registered names in the original system of the Lisbon Agreement. [[16.20 hours]] The added value of geographical indications is then reflected in an increased interest in their international protection. For the first time, this protection was enshrined in the Lisbon Agreement to protect designations of origin and their international registration of 1958. They fall into the system of protection of industrial rights within the World Intellectual Property Organisation. Unfortunately, the weakness of this system was its relatively small number of members. At present, it has only 30. The Czechoslovak Republic and then the Czech Republic were among the three countries with the highest number of designations of origin registered in this system. In the case of the Czech Republic, it is, as I said, more than 70 records in the register. The first truly multilateral basis for the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications is the Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights within the World Trade Organisation. It's from 1995. However, this agreement only provides a minimum standard for geographical indications and does not allow international registration at all. A stronger, so-called additional protection against abuse of the reputation of geographical indications contributes only to wines and spirits. Unfortunately, however, in the last quarter-century, all efforts to extend this agreement have failed in the area of geographical indication. The main reason for this is, without a doubt, a very different approach by the supporters of geographical indications, headed by the European Union, on the one hand, and by the opponents of this concept, headed by the United States of America, on the other. The United States has made great efforts to promote the principle of generic or generic names and fundamentally reject the protection of geographical indications. For example, Parmigiano Reggiano versus American Parmesan may be an example of a long dispute. New help is waiting for Czech beer or Žatecký hop after adoption of this standard.Thank you very much. In response to these problems, the European Union has become increasingly focused on extending the protection of geographical indications by means of so-called bilateral free trade agreements. In the last decade, she's closed a number of them. An example may be agreements with Korea, Japan or Vietnam or future agreement with Mercosur. The European Union agreement with China on the protection of geographical indications is a special case in this area. It should enter into force at the beginning of the year and protect Czech names in China - just Žatecký hop, Českobudějovice beer and in the future Czech beer. The protected designation of origin may be obtained by products whose production is linked at all stages to a specific location or region. Protected geographical indications can obtain products, but not only those, even some processes or raw materials. In 2015, the WIPO Treaty of Lisbon was also modernised for more than half a century. It happened through the Geneva Act. Among other things, it extended its scope to geographical indications within the meaning of the TRIPS Agreement and allowed access to intergovernmental organisations, including the European Union. The European Union has become a member of the Agreement on 26 February 2020 and the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on designations of origin and geographical indications entered into force on that date at the same time. The aim of this revision was also to make the system more attractive to developing countries. Their interest in geographical indications is still increasing as the added value of investments in this type of local development is indisputable. That is why I also believe that our government will support local products in accordance with this regulation, which will subsequently help this. Some names have even reached world fame. Distillates, such as tequila and others, are gradually working on their reputation. For example, kampotský pepper can serve as interesting. With the help of growers and processors, the Czech Republic also participates in this pepper in the development project. This product Cambodia has been registered and protected in the European Union since 2016. Approximately 70 percent of local production is even balanced, reflecting the growth of the local standard of living. I don't want to take an example directly from Cambodia, but I would definitely take an example from this project. This project, as I have already mentioned, is supported by the Czech Pepper Field project and since 2019 it has been implemented by the Czech company Cambodian. It is a three-year project that combines business elements with Czech development cooperation and charity activities. The Czech company buys this quality pepper from small farmers who do not have enough technical capacity and resources to export separately. They usually lack packaging technology and other equipment to process it. The local partner of the project is KPPA, Kampot Pepper Promotion Association, which promotes the protected geographical indication. Pepper Field is also dedicated to promoting this geographical indication in the Czech Republic. This summer, he launched a charity fundraiser in the Czech Republic to help his farmers affected by the social impacts of covid-19. The Kampota pepper, in an effort to reduce the spread of false-marked production, is now seeking a gradual extension of international protection, including through the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement, which Cambodia has ratified as the first state ever. Although the membership of the Czech Republic in the Geneva Act is ensured through the European Union, the Czech Republic and six other members of the European Union, the original members of the Lisbon Agreement, European legislation has allowed them to accede to the modernised agreement on their own. This will preserve the uninterrupted protection of the rights previously granted under the original Lisbon Agreement and ensure follow-up protection under the Geneva Act. Craft products also have access. That's another added value. Access to the Geneva Act is mainly in the interests of Czech farmers and food producers, or craft products. Here I would like to emphasise traditional craft products, regional craft products. The international system of protection and registration of geographical indications is gradually expanding, bringing new opportunities for export of traditional Czech food products - wines, spirits, and, above all, beer and hops. It can also help to expand the availability of foreign regional specialties to Czech consumers. Dear friends, on the basis of all the above and everything I have said, I consider this proposal to be very beneficial for our entrepreneurs, businessmen and farmers, and I will definitely support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Alena Schillerová has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and the club of the SPD movement, to put the veto against the discussion of this press in an accelerated procedure under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, because we prefer its discussion in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u9	Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur has also taken part in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u10	Given the veto of the club YES to discuss the draft law at first reading, I propose a reduction of the deadline for the hearing of the law in committees to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u11	Yes. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, this is therefore a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if the Minister is interested in the final word? [[- No, thank you.]] Yes, he doesn't. Next, if the rapporteur is also interested in the final word? The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. No, thank you. The application for repayment of the application submitted to the applicant for completion was neither filed for refusal of the application submitted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'm going to sign you all out, because I've noticed an interest in signing off, and I'm going to ask you to sign in with your ID cards. Before we proceed to the vote, I will read the apologies. I specify the apology of Minister Lipavský - from 15.15 to the end of the day he apologizes for working reasons, and then President Okamura apologizes from 16 am to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Sadovský also apologizes today from 14.20 to 15.30 for working reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza apologises from 15 to 16 for work reasons, and Mr Josef Flek apologizes between 15 and 16 on account of negotiations. So many apologies. And I now note that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will take the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 104, registered 157 Members and Members, for 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? This is Mr Kott. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I also think this document, given that it is a designation of purely Czech food, that it should be dealt with by the agricultural committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-004-020.u13	Yes, thank you. We will therefore vote on Mr Kott's proposal to order this bill to the agricultural committee. [[Big noise in the hall.]] So, gentlemen, I ask you to lower your voice in the right side of the hall. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this press being directed to the agricultural committee? Who's against it? Voting number 105, registered as 159 Members and Members, for 83, versus 8. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the agricultural committee as another committee. It seems that this proposal has raised a great deal of voice among some Members. I would therefore ask you to keep your voice down so that we can concentrate on the vote. Thank you. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the time limit for committee discussions, in this case to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 106, 159 Members and Members voted in favour of 87, against 55. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this press to be discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs as a guarantee, agricultural committee as another committee for discussion and, at the same time, we have reduced the time limits for committee discussions to 30 days. I'm done discussing the first reading of this bill. I will thank the Minister and also the rapporteur. We will now proceed to discuss the next item.
