ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning and I begin the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The President of the Chamber of Deputies convened a meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 66 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 26 October this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Michal Zuna as the verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So I'm going to start the vote and I'm going to ask who's in favour of identifying these verifiers? Get him to press the button with his hand up. Who's against it? Voting number one, 110 Members were signed in, 110 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. And I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Michal Zuna, as verifiers of the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, by the beginning of the meeting, the whole of the Kobza, the Jiří of the sitting, the full day of the sitting, the full day of the sitting, Mr Bartošek from 10 to 11 hours for the Kasal David, Mr Bauer Jan for the whole Pokorná Jermanová, Mr Bělica Josef for the whole day of the sitting, Mr Blaha Stanislav for the whole working day for the working Vojtěch, Mr Brázdil Milan for the Liška Věra Petr for the working Pekarová, Mrs Decroix Pošarová for the entire meeting day for the reasons of the foreign trip, Mr Dvořák Jaroslava for the whole Ondřej day, Mr Foldyna Jaroslav for the Vaňková Patrik Pavla for the health Stanislav, Mr Fridrich Jáč for the Ivan Ožanová Pivoňka for the health Zuzana, Mrs Golasowská Pavla, for the whole of the sitting day, Mrs Hanzlíková Jana, for the whole of the sitting dayRichter Jan all the day on account of foreign travel, Mr Salvetr Rudolf all the day for work, Mr Špičák Julius all the day for health reasons, Mrs Válková Helena all the day for health reasons, Mr Vích Radovan all the day for health reasons, Mr Vlček Lukáš from 13:00 to 17:00 for work reasons, Mr Vondrák Ivo all the day for work reasons, Mr Vrána Petr all the day for health reasons, Mr Wenzl Milan for health reasons is excused for the whole day. From the members of the government he apologizes: Minister Balaš for working reasons all day, Minister Bek for working reasons all day, Minister Blažek for foreign travel all day, Minister Černochová for working reasons all day, Minister Kupka until 11.30 for working reasons, Minister Langšádlová until 12.30 for working reasons, Minister Nekula Zdeněk for health reasons all day, Minister Rakušan for foreign travel all day, Minister Šalomoun for working reasons all day and Minister Válek for working reasons. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 44th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. I'm just gonna ask, do I have Mr. Excellent's priority right here? He's downloading his application. We will therefore now vote on the full proposal for the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number two, 139 Members were enrolled, 137 voted in favour, no one opposed. We have adopted the proposal and the agenda has been approved. Now we're going to proceed to the first point of our point, and that's the point of number.
