ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 235/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister will present the proposal to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka. Please take the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. Allow me to cast - not to cast, but to introduce this bill, and thus to bring it here into the discussion of the Chamber of Deputies, or a proposal for an amendment to two laws, namely Act No 117 on State Social Support and Act No 111 on Assistance in Material Need. The main aim of the draft of these two laws and this House's press number 235 is to take steps that will simplify the administration of the housing allowance and also increase the amount of parental contribution from CZK 10,000 per month to CZK 13,000 per month and increase actually the flexibility of drawing this amount. If I really take this to a greater extent in detail, the purpose of this simplification in the area of state social aid is, in the case of housing allowance, to abolish the obligation to apply for a new housing allowance each year. Therefore, we also submit this bill under Section 90, because for most of these applicants the key date is 1 July of this year. And here we are in a situation where we have repeatedly heard criticism of, say, the great administrative difficulty of this contribution for both the officials of the employment office and for the applicants themselves. And it is one of the steps that complicates life, and it actually requires repeated submission of a request, that is the obligation to submit a request. So that's the first thing to cancel the obligation to submit this new application every year. At the same time, the next step is to reduce the frequency of compulsory proof of income and housing costs for the housing allowance from that frequency, which is set four times a year today, to twice a year. It is also a cancellation of the obligation to distribute the costs of the performance provided from the use of the apartment to individual items. Furthermore, entitlement to the housing allowance will not be newly subject to the submission of advance payments for housing costs. Furthermore, it is also mentioned the increased maximum monthly amount of parental allowance from the current CZK 10,000 to CZK 13,000 for parents without a daily assessment base. Furthermore, it is an adjustment to the empowering provision whereby the government will be able to adjust the amounts of the normative housing costs, taking into account the estimate of the average increase in the level of energy costs between the calendar year for which the amounts of the normative housing costs are fixed and the calendar year preceding, i.e. according to estimates by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Energy Regulatory Office. At the same time, the possibility of increasing the amount of normative housing costs during the calendar year is newly enshrined. This means the situation that we have done exceptionally for this year, so that we can make it possible for the future. The party to the proceedings will be able to submit to the Labour Office all documents in the form of a simple copy. However, the possibility of the employment office remains preserved in those cases where the employment office will consider it necessary for the submission of the original to be there. Today, with all the annexes, we require a mandatory original, which significantly complicates the entire administration process for applicants and requires unnecessary higher costs for them. In the field of assistance in material distress, there are adjustments to the benefit of emergency immediate assistance by extending the next heading of the emergency which, when it occurs, the person may also be considered by the body of assistance in material distress, taking into account income and social and property conditions per person in material distress. Another emergency situation is a situation where a person may be threatened by housing or other housing hazards, by the absence of basic living conditions, and this situation is difficult to prevent and cannot be managed by its own forces. [[15.10 hours]] Bonification is also increased in the calculation of pensions for the purposes of entitlement and the amount of benefits of assistance in material distress. Furthermore, there is an adjustment which will enable the authorities in material distress, at administrative discretion, for the purposes of entitlement and for the amount of all the benefits of assistance in material distress, not to take account of income, whose inclusion in the relevant income could not be claimed fairly. The relevant period for emergency emergency aid benefits is amended. Furthermore, the change in the current establishment of the heading of the persons to be examined together for the purpose of assessing the right to emergency immediate assistance to cover the necessary one-off expenditure. Furthermore, there is also a change of jurisdiction for the benefits of assistance in material distress according to the place where the applicant and the persons considered together live. This measure will speed up the availability of benefits for persons who live outside the region where they have their permanent residence. There is also the possibility to use the electronic form. Further wider use of simple copies of documents, simplification of management by providing further derogations from the administrative order and reducing the quantities of notifications delivered. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 July 2022, therefore this printing is proposed in the framework of the approval under Section 90. We've had a debate with representatives and opposition in the last few days. I know there are reservations about the approval under Section 90. We are looking for a way that I think we have found, in order that, despite the reservations that are here, we can come to this crucial point, so that, by 30 June, we can discuss this proposal for two laws throughout Parliament and get it into the Collection of Laws so that we can make it effective by 1 July. So I believe we can handle it, even if it's something that's not quite normal here, in such a short time we'll discuss it in the second and third readings, but I think we've been able to find that way. Thank you in any case for the possible support of this law, which is aimed at simplifying in this difficult situation the way in which the Czech people want, administration and availability of aid at all within the framework of the housing allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Lesenská, to take the floor. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for the presentation report. As rapporteur, I can say that the submitted press number 235 concerns the housing allowance, concerns the parental contribution and the extraordinary immediate assistance from the system of assistance in material distress. All these benefits are changed to make administration easier, because both the employment office and its clients, with regard to forms and the way in which they are applied, have their hands full, so I am glad that the Ministry proposes that the housing allowance be applied for, and the housing allowance will continue to be granted for an indefinite period of time, unless there are any changes affecting this contribution. Receivables and all required documents will be documented by clients, or by users of this benefit, once every six months. If any of the changes listed in the draft law occur during the quarter, they can also document this during the quarter. However, the dose will not be reduced, it will remain at its original level, it will not change until once every six months. As far as the parental allowance is concerned, there will be an increase in this dose from the current 10,000 a month to 13,000 a month, which will result in a reduction in actually drawing time. And the amendment to Act No. 111/2006 Coll., which is a law on aid in material distress, defines other legal situations which may be eligible for this benefit. The Minister mentioned it in detail. I don't think I'd be discussing any more details in my report at the moment. I will just say once again that the petitioner suggested that the Chamber of Deputies with the bill should give their consent at the very first reading. That's all from my side at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And so I am now opening up a general debate to which three have joined so far. And I see President Schillerová here with priority rights, so I'm gonna ask her for her contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll leave a material page to my colleagues, who are social security specialists, maybe then I'll support them in some way. But at this point, I'm here for another reason. I am here to give the veto on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and the SPD according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. It is not because we want to prolong the conduct of this act according to us very important law, I will leave aside the fact that it is being applied so late and then rushing to 90, I will save this criticism for another time, but it is because we want to be able to submit amendments and apply them where we think it is important. However, after a preliminary agreement with the representatives of the coalition, we are also prepared to support the minimum reduction of deadlines proposed by the representatives of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u7	Yes, thank you. Since there's been a veto, we're going through the standard system. And in this case, I'm opening up... yes, we have a priority right here. Mr. Chairman Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To follow the words of the President, who I thank for the helpfulness and understanding, so, given that the veto was given for the procedure under Section 90, I will ask the House to vote in conclusion on the shortening of the deadline for the discussion of the House of Press 235, the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, pursuant to Section 91 (2) of the Act. It shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 7 (2) of the Rules of Procedure for one hour. It is an extreme possibility, we are aware of it, Mrs Schillerová mentioned it in the end. The agreement with the representatives of all the MPs, as well as the SPD, is such that, if the House approves this, I would ask for a 30-minute break at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and a Social Policy Committee would meet urgently to discuss this press. And tomorrow at 6:00 p.m., a second reading of this House's press could be carried out by default, according to such a shortened deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. So if I understand that right now, at the end of the day, we're actually voting for a one-hour cut. Yes, which is probably possible, so I've got it marked here and I'll vote on it at the end. In any case, we are now in the general debate, which I am therefore opening, and three Members have so far made themselves known. First Mrs Pastuchová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me comment on this House's press, the amendment on state social support, and on the point that is proposed for change, and that is the parental contribution. I understand that the aim of this proposal is to make it possible to be flexible when taking this benefit and to allow families in this difficult situation to draw more money from their parents. I have waited, and once again I must stress that KDU has the support of families in its programme, support of families, support of families, but I do not see the support here again. I would expect that if he proposed actually an accelerated drawing of the parental allowance, there would also be some increase in this contribution. [[15.20 hours]] The minimum selection of parental allowance was made for a reason and was actually done to ensure that some families who could not establish a daily assessment basis for cash assistance in maternity or 70 percent of the thirty times the basis of the assessment, so this amount was originally left to them for 7,000 crowns. We have increased this amount to 10,000 in the last parliamentary term, but the parental contribution has also been increased. Now we're increasing it to 13,000, but without increasing the parental contribution. What does that mean for some families? Some families, yes, will help themselves, but some families who couldn't calculate the basis, because maybe they didn't work, choose the parent seven months earlier. I talked to my colleagues, my clerks, my office of employment, and they told me - and I read it in the press, and so did Mr. Middle: they'll run out seven months earlier, and what's going to happen? These families will come to the employment office and ask for social benefits seven months earlier. So I don't know if we helped the families. Or we helped by paying welfare benefits to some families seven months earlier than they should be. I say we help the families, but I think we've only helped some of them who'll go seven months early for welfare. My colleagues and I are certainly preparing an amendment that we are still working on. But I can say that we will propose an amendment that will be tightened up by the fact that the 13,000 will be able to increase the families with which the assessment base was possible. I mean, we're actually going to make sure that we save the state money for all of us, because welfare comes from our taxes. I think it'll be fair for families who work and get a baby before families who don't work and then go for the benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Šafránková is the next one to be included in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, our SPD MEP will finally support this proposal. But since we consider it insufficient and want to improve it, we will be submitting an amendment and an accompanying resolution to it. We support the simplification of administration and the reduction of the administrative burden related to proving entitlement and drawing of the housing allowance as well as some other benefits of state social support, especially in the case of child allowances, in the long term. At the same time, however, I also draw attention to the possibility of abuse of social benefits, which was addressed by our proposal to end their abuse, which your five-wheelers rejected here a few weeks ago. So we're preparing him, and we're definitely presenting him again. Similarly, we have long been drawing attention to the need for an overall simplification of over-complicated forms and their annexes and procedures for applications for these benefits. This is exactly what our accompanying resolution will be about. We will definitely support the expansion of the circle of situations where citizens will be entitled to extraordinary immediate assistance in the context of benefits in material distress. As we have seen at the time of the covid crisis, there are situations where this form of support to citizens is the most appropriate, fastest and basically the only option at the moment. We also further support the increase of the monthly limit on parental allowance to 13 000, which is certainly needed in today's situation of the deepening social crisis. But here I also point out that I will be making an amendment to this in order to increase the parental contribution itself, by a cumulative rate of inflation since its last increase, which is now approximately CZK 60,000. In a situation where families with young children, as a result of rocket-growing inflation driven by the rise in basic cost of living, housing, energy, food, fuel, and other goods and services, fall into large income poverty, they lose all their savings and are threatened with falling into debt spirals or executions, we consider these measures to be essential. At the same time, I will also propose that this contribution be reviewed regularly by law according to the rise in inflation expressed by the increase in the consumer price index for the previous calendar year according to the data of the Czech Statistical Office. Thank you and I ask you in future to support our amendment and accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u13	I thank the Member and, please, another member of the debate, and this is Mr Aleš Juchelka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's gonna be really fast today. I believe that we will, of course, say ours about the amendments, but we are probably all very full of the reports coming from the Prague City Council, so we will be very quick today, I think. We are witnessing, for example, that we will, of course, simplify all the forms to be used to enable people to benefit from the housing allowance in a simpler way. I understand. The context of the time is such that, of course, it requires such a measure. I'd just ask the Minister very much if he could tell us how much the housing contributions are paid at the moment. That means how many people have already applied to this and what is the nominal value of the crowns, how many families we have actually helped as a state by contributing to housing. Of course, we will also have amendments, as my previous speaker said, to the parental contribution. There we have already announced this all the time that we will want to increase the parental contribution to 400,000 crowns. We had it in the election program. That is why we are going to give the amendment here in this spirit exactly as my previous speaker said, with valorisation. Well, I firmly believe that this will pass. Perhaps there will be another amendment to parenting because I know that all along the Pirates have promised to support families by increasing parenting. So hopefully they did not throw them overboard and maybe they will use this option and state social support, which will also be opened at second reading, so they will use it to make it possible that they will not just talk about it. Thus, the total value of the parental contribution would be 100,000 greater. This is due, of course, beyond the fact that we are facing unprecedented inflation here, also because we want to simply and simply appreciate all those who take care of the youngest child in the family. Last but not least, it also deepens the possibilities, thanks to this amount, to reconcile family and working life, for example, by increasing parental contribution by increasing the co-financing rate of pre-school facilities for children such as children's groups. The measure will affect all recipients of the parent's. Thus, those who, at the date of effectiveness of the proposal, as the amendment, of course, is conceived, have not exhausted the original total amount of this benefit. Both for individual children and for multiples, of course. So only briefly. Of course, we can start discussing this. Thank you so much for being helpful on all sides, that we will discuss this further into that 1. 7. so that we don't de facto throw 100,000 people into having to come back to the employment office and ask for a housing allowance again, as it is every quarter. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u15	Yes, I thank Mr Aleš Juchelek and ask if anyone else is interested. Yes, I see the interest of Vice-President Richterová here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u16	Hello, dear. I, ladies and gentlemen, have come here to thank you for the helpfulness with which this will be discussed. I wanted to stress how great it is that we will proceed with simplifying the payment of contributions. For years, we've been taking in things that have compounded, and we're finally gonna simplify. I am glad that I had the opportunity to participate in this personally, and I very much appreciate the work of those who prepared it very quickly, because it was really very intensive work even for those officials and officials at the Ministry. It seems fair to say the same thing here. It was really under a lot of time pressure. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. Today, there are only about 30 percent of eligible households who collect, they have to help themselves through the housing allowance, so I think it is also important to say, for example, for households of really seniors who can no longer earn money so that they are not ashamed to ask for help, even through the housing contact centres, and to make use of the housing contribution, which will be simpler and will be really less paperwork with it. That would be my second appeal and, at the same time, perhaps a contribution to broadening awareness of this targeted aid to those who simply couldn't live in their apartment without it. That's how he's been conceived all along. And as for one other thing related actually to the 13,000 limit, raised by the 13,000 crowns per month for parental allowance, that is the last thing I want to thank for. I am very glad that this change in the limit is taking place. I actually had an amendment here in the past period, which increased the limit to CZK 10,000 from the previous, I think, CZK 7,600. Why? Because in the finals, it's allowing people to have freedom of choice, so let each family set up their family situation and the length of drawdown they need. And at the same time, it doesn't actually coincide with how much the household has on average in the case of the coincidence of the parental allowance and the housing allowance, so it's still not necessarily a collision. I believe that in the future we will be able to find a match on the parental contribution. And now I'm going to make a very final point, and of course, in this amendment, we couldn't solve everything, so there's just no need to solve the collision limit of 92 hours, which now limits especially low-income households in access to the care of young children. There are, of course, a number of ways to deal with this, either by raising this limit or by completely releasing this limit, which I would prefer. We'll talk about it further. However, it is now particularly important that this amendment, as it is presented, goes through so that we can simplify the use of the housing allowance, and this is a priority for me to really have this as simple as possible for people as possible from 1 July. So, once again, thank you very much for the helpfulness and support and I believe that we will be able to work out the other aspects in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Before the final word for the general debate, Minister Jurečka is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u18	Thank you very much and thank you for the very correct and constructive debate. I have to say, actually, right now, if we manage to discuss this, we're really going to move a lot of clients, because we, in addition to the specific changes that are in the law, have prepared changes to actually accept the form until the processing and payout process within the employment offices. [[unintelligible]] I have left you as Members of Parliament, I think on Thursday last week, to actually send you some brief overview of where we would like to move it from the point of view of the client approach for those applicants. And if it succeeds, it'll just run from June to July. As far as the debates about increasing parental contribution are concerned, of course, this also needs to be taken into account in some context of the overall package, where we are talking not only about the greater flexibility, but also about the interlinked measures that will concern the House press next, and that is the area of support for part-time work, when we put these things together, so we simply give these families not only greater flexibility in drawing, but also more flexibility in terms of possibilities to actively increase household income on the labour market. Of course, the debates on the overall increase in parenting as such are here and I see it as a step forward in the debate as some measure in the future, which we can also possibly approach, but, as a whole, the budgetary implications are also seen and, in the context of national social support, this support is actually the most economical and budgetaryly demanding part of the parent's payout. So much for this comment. Then there was also a specific question about the amount of aid under the housing contribution. Overall, for the first four months of this year it is roughly CZK 3.1 billion. When I take it in a specific number of applicants, in January it was 143 477 people, in February 132 226, in March it was 168 804, in April it was 165 408 and in May 145 353 in the case of applications for housing aid. Then, of course, there are also the number of applicants for the allowance, for the housing supplement and for extraordinary immediate assistance. The figures also developed with the fact that actually the biggest culture was just for the period of March and April even in the case of the housing supplement. So much for the information that was still falling in this general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pastuchová came forward with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you have any statistics on how many families are involved in actually collecting the parental allowance of the 10,000, how many families are we going to help, if we're going to raise it to 13,000 now, and if you have any further analysis, if they were students, which I understand, because they couldn't prove, and the other families, if you have how many families, as Mrs Richterová says, we're going to help them choose faster. Or yes, they're students, but if you have statistics on how many families are now collecting tens of thousands of dollars and now it's going to be 13, because really these families are going to be asking for social benefits seven months early.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. The Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u22	I can't say it out of my head right now. I am then ready to add the information to the committee's meeting today or at the next meeting, pull it out of the labour authorities' system, and give the information. I really can't secure it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u23	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I see no one, so that concludes the general debate and I ask the Minister if he is interested in the final word? It's not. The rapporteur? Neither do I. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. So I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to a committee other than a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I have engaged, and before my colleagues arrive, two more apologies, with Vice-President Kovářová from 15 to 16 o'clock for work reasons and with Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová from 15 o'clock to the end of the day, for family reasons. Here's the vote. So who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number three, 147 logged in, for is 137, against no one. Result: accepted. [[15.40 hours]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to another committee. Do I ask, then, if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? I can't see here. In that case, we can proceed to the vote on the shortening of the deadline, as proposed by President Výborný. Let me just say again, we're going to vote that we're shortening the deadline to one hour. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, entry 147, for 133, versus 1. Result: accepted. President Excellent wants to speak with priority rights, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On the basis of the agreement of the club presidents, I request a break in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 16.15 hours, so that an extraordinary committee on social policy can meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u25	Yes. And before that, he asked me for an organizational instruction from Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u26	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the members of the Social Policy Committee to meet immediately in room 55, that is, under the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. And I'm declaring a break until 4:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-001-001.u28	Have a good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up, so we will continue the negotiations. I'm opening point number
