ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u1	95. Proposal by Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 270/ - first reading This is the House Press 270 and we are in the first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 270/1. I ask that Mr Karel Haas, who is already ready, present the motion as the appellant, give him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, allow me, for the group - I will even say a group cross-cuttingly across the political spectrum, not all of it, but both from the coalition camp and from the opposition camp - to put the proposal under the House press 270, in a simple way, as the petitioner says, organisationally-functional - I underline these words - amendments to the law on promoting sport. Before I get to the show, the brief presentation of the material content of the design, two important introductory frame notes. The first point is for the purpose and purpose of the novel. The amendment is based on the fact that the current position of the NSA as the central body of the state administration in the field of sport is definitely not being defeated at all. The amendment is not intended to disrupt the NSA's position in any way. In other words, I underline stability in this sense. After all, the government declared it by its press release in the spring towards the sports environment, so I underline the words stability. On the other hand, and this is one of the purposes and senses of the amendment, we are aware across the political spectrum that the NSA could function much better as a central state body in the field of sport, that is, the amendment with reasonable evolution, not revolution, we are trying to set the word in particular - I am stressing again the word in particular - better organizational-functional parameters, powers, powers, authority, organ structure of the National Sports Agency. The second introductory frame note, which I would like to say here actually with thanks to the constructively entire Chamber of Deputies and all colleagues: We have tried to discuss this amendment honestly with all the Members' clubs represented in the House, that is to say with the opposition, with colleagues from the ANO movement, the Deputised Madam President, we have had two very good, constructive negotiations. My colleagues from the SPD movement, on the basis of which I will say, have also held negotiations with their club leadership, and I think that on the principles of the amendment, perhaps - I believe I will not be surprised - there is some elemental cross-section agreement that the debate can undoubtedly be quite reasonable about individual parameters. So thank you very much for these discussions. [[14.50 hours]] I'll mention two more things about these negotiations. Right next week, the chair of the Sub-Committee on Sports of the Education Committee, Jakub Janda, convened a meeting of the Sub-Committee on Sport, where this amendment will once again be one of the dominant content elements of the negotiations. And for this week, we have a personal meeting with the chairman of the school committee, Professor Vondrák, also for further negotiations on the amendment. So there are so many two introductory frame notes on the meaning and purpose of the amendment and to describe that it really is a House press with which, from all sides, there has been an effort in this House to discuss it in substance or to pre-negotiate it. It is now mentioned in seven points in the introduction of the main content elements of the amendment. First, this is basically calming down for sports environments, for sports organizations. In the amendment, we do not really touch on the provisions relating to the exercise of sport itself. The amendment extends to organizational and functional settings concerning the functioning of the National Sports Agency. That's the first point of content out of seven. Second entry: Three red threads actually intersect the whole novel. The first - and I will use completely human words here, I think we all know the consensus, and I think a reasonable, thousand-year-old term "more heads know more" - that is, a novel to today's Monocratic Authority, which the NSA is - the NSA is basically the Monocratic Central Authority of the State Administration, has only one person in charge, so we are really cross-cuttingly leading by saying "more heads knows" or the amendment brings a collective governing body to the National Sports Agency. The second red thread, which intersects with the whole novel, is that I assume that all of our professional activities, whether in the private or public sphere, may be recognized by the rule that continuous control, not ad hoc control by any third party, but the ongoing control mechanisms within the entity and the system of multiple eye pairs, always lead to better results. For this reason, we are introducing an amendment to a collective supervisory body or a supervisory body - no matter what kind of adjective we might use - to the National Sports Agency. And the third, no less important element. Who you know today's law on promoting sport and the status of the National Sports Agency, the National Sports Agency, or its chairman, can be in the current state - and that is nothing personal, that would apply in any name in the leadership of the National Sports Agency - so de iure - now I do not evaluate informal trips, but de iure - now the National Sports Agency or the President of the National Sports Agency can only be tasked with government resolutions. And who in this House you are an athlete, whether in the role of active athlete, coach, waffle in the best sense of the word, you will confirm to me that the sport solves today and daily Czech sport so many acute points to solve that the task of the NSA through government resolution is absolutely inflexible. And once again, there's this link to a collective management body that can just - I'll give you an example here - like in the VZP, there's a board of directors, really in some way the NSA, its management structure, its senior employees more operationally, more effectively leading to the tasks that the NSA is legally required to perform. Third of the seven contents: The really dominant part of the amendment is the establishment of a collective management body and a collective control or supervisory body of the NSA. I will not go into detail, because, of course, we all know the House press, which means, rather, I am accentuating a few points to the collective management and control body. Of course, the amendment defines the powers and responsibilities of these two new institutions, defines the number of members of these institutions, the way they are appointed, the flexibility - I will not hide it in any way, let it be quite public here - the flexibility of the current, not completely flexible options for removal from office, the internal rules of conduct, the quorum, the quorum for adoption of the decision. As far as the collective management body is concerned, the amendment significantly compared to the current state - but in a moment I will underline some comparative benchmark - significantly tightens the requirements for new National Sports Agency leaders in two directions. Firstly, the competence requirements by introducing, in contrast to the current, let's say, the culturally relatively low status of legal competence requirements for the head of the NSA amendment, the standard competence requirements that we should have for the central authorities of the state administration of this country established by the law of competence, typically university education, typically five years of practice in the management function, so that we have at the head of these central authorities people with proven managerial experience and so on. So we really, as plaintiffs, claim that the National Sports Agency should raise the competence requirements to the level - and I stress to the level, we have made a comparative benchmark across the Czech central authorities - basically to the level of modern Czech central government bodies. The second tightening up of demands concerns in a way - and I will best demonstrate it directly to myself. We significantly tighten the conditions for the incompatibility of the functions of the President of the National Sports Agency, the members of the managing authority, the members of the supervisory body of the National Sports Agency, the incompatibility of membership in this collective, whether the managing or supervisory body, with other public functions. I could use and probably use here - perhaps not a bad one - the popular phrase that from the tightening up it is beautiful to see that we do not write the novel for ourselves. On the contrary, we introduce in this amendment the incompatibility of functions in the NSA bodies with the function of a Member or a Senator, with functions relaxed in self-government, because, among other things, we want to avoid any conflict of interest between typical applicants for subsidies, which is very legitimate, so with vacant functions. I stress, not with membership, but with positions in political parties. Those are the things that we're moving very strongly in this novel as well. So, please, this is the third point of content, and it can be said that the dominant part of the amendment - the collective management and collective control body. What is currently unsolved in Czech sport is often questionable: there is no precise limit to the powers and powers between the National Sports Agency as the central body of the state administration for sport and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports over the areas of school and higher education sport, so the amendment clearly defines the limit in that the education and higher education sport has, and it is quite right to be in the Ministry of Education. The fifth and fifth such a key element of the amendment in my content presentation is an element of strengthening transparency in the distribution of subsidies to sport, sport and the promotion of sport by the NSA. It is a certain reaction to the fact that everyone across this House certainly perceives some of the negative phenomena, the negative situations that occurred in Czech sport. I don't think it's worth repeating - the media cases of some sports organizations are well-known, so I'm definitely not going to lower myself to any names - the reaction to this is that we're bringing an amendment to ban the grant of sport aid to such legal persons, typically associations that are most commonly known as associations or other types of legal entities, but most often associations in whose statutory body sits a person who has been convicted of the criminal offence of sports or sports or of the offence of subsidy. The amendment brings - and I have used these words here more times when I have acted on other bills, that we are trying to really look at the measure of bureaucracy in our country - the amendment brings some partial flexibility and the removal of certain rules of bureaucratic character, which rules for the current effectiveness of the law on promoting sport and the existence of the NSA have not actually proved to be a reality to Czech sport. The specific example contained in the amendment is that we are cutting off the absolute obligation - and I am stressing in today's law and project it yourself into your municipalities, which, in particular, of the smaller municipalities, actually do so, and whether it has any meaning - we are cutting off the legal obligation of the sport development plan in each municipality. Project the Czech Republic, I now round up 6 200 municipalities in this country, many of them very small, many of them with mayors who do their jobs inextricably, and we have an absolute obligation in our law without exception. It is not only necessary for ORP municipalities, it is indeed for all municipalities in the Czech Republic, including the smallest ones, the obligation to have a sport development plan in the village. By cutting off this legal obligation, of course, we do not prevent reasonable representatives in self-government, and I assume that they will do so not because they are ordering the law, but because they will admit the representatives of self-government that there is a need for such a systematic approach to sport in their municipalities, so they undoubtedly accept and accept a strategic document for sport at a time and before the law. That's the second-to-last content element. [[15.00 hours]] And the last content element - he is of course the most boring of content, but I will mention it, he is always interesting to us, to lawyers, and for such a saying that laws must be read backwards from the transitional provisions - of course the amendment contains transitional provisions so that, if possible, into a new organizational structure, if - of course, I must say on condition that it is in the whole legislative process, that is, both in the House, the Senate, the President of the Republic - the amendment will find support, so contains transitional provisions that are set for a six-month transitional period for the transition of the National Sports Agency to a new organisational structure. So many, please, on seven key points. I didn't lower myself to read here any literal version of the novel, which means I was really trying to poke it out of the novel material. So much for the substance of the law. Finally, four points. First point: a request for support throughout the Chamber of Deputies. Sport is supposed to connect, not split. That's a very important point. Of course, we are aware, and who is carefully reading the underlying documents, so you know that the government has taken a neutral position and we have received a number of substantive, factual and reasonable, legislative comments from the government, which means to incorporate - and I now underline - three areas. Za (a) comments from the Government of the Czech Republic - here I would like to point out to you, the amendment as such has unanimous support for the five of June this year, rather than overcoming, perhaps, some media inaccuracies. So really, the technical legislative clarification by the government will be one of the content elements that we are going to be dealing with or dealing with right now, is already at a very advanced stage of preparedness. The second content element is very reasonable, I would call it parametric - I hope I call it correct - parametric suggestions, proposals that we have received from colleagues from the ANO movement, from colleagues dedicated to the field of sport. And the third - and this has not yet come from me - I have hidden it as one of the key points to the conclusion - in June of this year not in the form of a government interdepartmental commentary procedure, where, of course, the NSA was involved, but basically in a voluntary way, we organized a half-day informal performance, commenting on the proposal with representatives of the sports environment. We had a work meeting here in the House - I estimate and round - about thirty key representatives of the Czech sports environment. So suggestions and suggestions, comments, parametric things from the government, from colleagues from the ANO movement, to whom I thank for it, from the sports environment we have prepared, it is just not... It's at the stage of the review press, it's not just in formal... in the format of the amendment - I am still waiting for some negotiations, such as with the chairman of the school committee this week, in the second half on which we are agreed - they will be incorporated so as to respond to the Government's comments by one comprehensive amendment, which will go the standard way of course, by the subcommittee, through the guarantee committee to be designated and so on. So the second technical thing - really, I think that to settle, to a fair, open settlement of comments from these three commentary sources, the government of the Czech Republic first, colleagues from the ANO movement in second place, the sports environment in third place, will be settled. Third and final point from me by conclusion - in accordance with § 91 para. 2 I propose and I would like to ask for a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions by 30, that is to say 30 days. So much for my introduction, and I'm ready for a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am merely saying that the request for a shortening of the time limits must then be made clear in the debate and, at the same time, we need to vote because the rapporteur, Mr Ivo Vondrák, has been designated and, if so, he is to speak as the new rapporteur, Mr Lubomír Brož. However, we are at first reading, it is necessary to vote, so I will engage and wait for my colleagues to run out. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. [[Noise in the hall.]] This is a change to the rapporteur for Mr Ivo Vondrák - Mr Lubomír Brož as a new rapporteur. Initiating vote. Who is the rapporteur for this change? Who's against it? We are voting for a change in the rapporteur. In the 91 vote, 148 votes were cast, for 109, against 0. The Member has been approved by the rapporteur. So I will ask him to take the floor, and at the same time I will ask colleagues to bring the discussions into the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my fellow Members, I would like to address the proposal for an amendment to the Sport Support Act. The petitioner has already presented the proposal in quite detail. I'd only focus on a few of those basic things. First, the amendment to the Sport Support Act proposes organisational and functional changes in the structure of the National Sports Agency and proposes the provisions of a collective management body, which has already been said, in the form of a five-member board of the National Sports Agency and a collective supervisory body in the form of a ten-member supervisory board. The aim is to re-create the current management hierarchy of the National Sports Agency so that individual members of the Board would have a strategicly divided scope according to each of the main areas of the Agency's activities. It is proposed that the functions of the President, Vice-President and three members of the Council of the National Sports Agency should be public functions and be remunerated under the Act on salaries and other obligations relating to the exercise of the office of officials of the State. The functions of members of the Supervisory Board shall be proposed as public functions which, according to the proposal, are performed free of charge. The amendment increases the competence requirements for the functions of the President, Vice-President and other members of the Council of the National Sports Agency, such as the introduction of a requirement for a Master level higher education. The proposal also tightens the rules for the incompatibility of the functions of the President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the National Sports Agency with other public functions, in particular those of a Member, a Senator or a Member of the Government. The very last point I would like to mention is that the proposal also seeks to eliminate the uncertainty about whether the area of school and higher sport falls within the gesture of the National Sports Agency or the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It explicitly states that the Ministry of Education has the benefit of the area of school and higher education, including financial support and the preparation of the strategic plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u5	Thank you, too, and I am now opening a general debate in which I have one application with priority rights, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u6	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would like to comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the promotion of sport. I would like to thank the petitioner, Mr Haas, very much how he has spoken here at the moment and how he has presented the amendment to this law in detail, but I must say that in no way has he convinced me that, at this time, we have an energy crisis, where we have a rise and a high price of fuel, food and others, so whether at this time the National Sports Agency, which has been set up here, needs other places and other paid places. I'm not convinced of that at all. I had the opportunity to work in the past on the National Sports Council, which has 21 members, and these people work there for free. They are experts, they are people who have something to say about the individual proposals that the President of the National Sports Agency, Vice-President and others present there every day in this National Sports Agency. When you look at the government's position on this proposal, it gave a neutral position on it and clearly said that if another body was established - and you put it in your programming statement and you constantly blame us that there were places, paid seats and so on during our government - at this point you are coming up with the fact that there will be other seats in the National Sports Agency. This process and decision-making will be much more complex, because the government has also said so, and it is clear here, which is why it has given a neutral opinion, and the government thinks, or the government's position, that setting up a more complex system can lead to more difficult decisions. This means that we will have the National Sports Council, where we really have experts, where we have representatives of the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We all know that Mr. Štěpánek, Jaromír Jágr, Mr. Nedvěd, Mr. Kolář, is on the National Sports Council today, and I could continue this way, there are, of course, representatives of all kinds of sports who really express themselves, and everyone does it for free. The body has been established, and I think it has been functional, so I don't understand why at this time, at this difficult time, an amendment to the Act on Sport is going to be presented here - so I think that we should be dealing with far more important laws here at the moment - which tells us that we will have a five-member board headed by the President, members would be appointed and referred to by the government on the Prime Minister's proposal, and a ten-person supervisory board. At the same time, I would like to ask the petitioners if at this time you have the opinion of the experts of the National Sports Council, which has 21 members, I would be very interested. I would like to ask if you have the opinion of the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Communities, the association of local authorities, I do not want to forget anyone, of course. I think it's very important because today we all know what's going on. Energy goes up, a lot of sports clubs are over, and I think that before giving money to some five-man board, I personally would give it to coaches and kids. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u7	Thank you for the speech, and Mr Ondřej Babka is now duly registered, so I will ask him to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think I'm going to follow up on my previous speaker, but at this point, I think I'd like to thank the translator, too. It's nice to hear, he's definitely going into that law with good intentions, just like his other colleagues. We had some meetings. It is probably important to mention that we would not call on ourselves at this time to amend the structure of the operation of the NSA, in the sense that sport, according to us, has far different and more serious problems than the structure of the operation of the National Sports Agency. And of course, we can probably admit the birth pains that accompanied the emergence of the National Sports Agency, that it is definitely not perfect and that it has certain flies. However, at a time when the great sports organizations have heard great criticism of this government for the poor support of sport, at a time when there has still not been a decision on what sports will be supported more, when we do not have the final priority sport, at a time when, in particular, there is a need for financial and personnel support for programmes already set up by the National Sports Agency, and to pour proper funds into them, otherwise - and this will happen - clubs and their sports facilities will die, at a time when sports clubs have increased their operating costs by more than 130 percent compared to last year, at a time when, due to the rise in energy prices, some stadiums are already closing and disbanding the rink, because they simply have no money, at a time when the Czech sports environment calls for us to have a clear head of Czech sport, so that we have a responsibility for the problems and achievements of Czech sport, so we are doing this amendment to make it public, we are taking a step back. At a time when, and I think, the prime minister of this country has to make a political decision that he will strongly support sport, at a time when the Prime Minister of this country did not say a word about sport in the public space, at a time when, after the sports cut in 2022, he received only 4.6 billion - by the way, in 2020, it was 12 billion, the government of Andrej Babiš, with the establishment of the NSA, significantly increased the funds in the sport environment and committed itself to going up to 1% of the sport - we, in the draft budget for 2023, do not even get to 0,2 percent, at a time when all top athletes appeal to receive up to 11 or 12 billion crowns, so instead, we here today only deal with this amendment, what the author wants to address by this amendment, is a power arrangement in the National Sports Agency, and yet with the unclear result, which, by the way, the government itself points out in its opinion. And now I am not saying - and please, colleague, really take it, I am very happy that we are dealing with the sports environment here, that there are a lot of us who want to talk about it, we want to do the best we want to do for sport, and that is, of course, our common goal, but unfortunately, this amendment does not address it - and now I am not saying - because probably, as you have already mentioned, there will probably be some adjustment, and now it will depend on how much the big adjustment will be, what comments will be there and will not be incorporated - so it is just little. And even from meetings and sports organizations, it sounds like he's not enthusiastic. They don't care who runs the National Sports Agency, they want the National Sports Agency to work, to have money and to distribute the money between clubs. I do not know if there will be an opinion from someone in the government, which, of course, is attached to the House press 270, and so maybe let me quote from it at least partially. The government discussed this law sometime in August and took a neutral position on it. It states in point 1 that it agrees that "the proposed model of the NSA's organisational structure with the establishment of a collective management body and a collective supervisory authority in the form of a supervisory commission is possible, but there are no positives in the proposed system that would be able to remedy the shortcomings mentioned in the justification of the draft law. On the contrary, setting up a more complex system can lead to more difficult operation in decision making." [[15.20 hours]] We know here, and it has fallen here that the members of the Supervisory Commission are appointed by the Prime Minister, half of the members on a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies and half of the members on a proposal from the Senate. So how's it gonna go? We will cancel the already mentioned 21-member National Sports Council, we will have a 10-member Supervisory Board. And who's gonna sit in it? Will it be us? Will it be five Members and five Senators? Do we want to check? Do we want to apply our influence here through Members and Senators as members of the Supervisory Commission? Secondly, the Government states that the justification for the bill states that economic savings will be made in simplifying the Agency's hierarchy, and these savings will be able to be used to pay remuneration to newly created board members. Thus, the draft law should in principle be budgetaryly neutral. However, the justification of the draft law should be supplemented by a detailed comparison of existing and anticipated costs. In the current economic political situation, it is more than desirable to approve budgetary neutral legislation. We read in the explanatory report that this will not affect the budget, however, at a time of extensive budget cuts, or at least we would all imagine it, adding functions to leadership, creating some kind of deputy with a salary of up to 100,000 a month. But we know that, of course, we lack people in the National Sports Agency who will judge and distribute subsidies. The National Sports Agency is understaffed, these people aren't there. And I imagine, as things went down here, the money is more likely to be used to staff the agency from below. Thirdly, the government does not agree with extending the circle of people rewarded under the law - this has already fallen, there is nothing to add. Fourth, the government does not consider it appropriate to transfer the gesture of school and university sport to the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Here, of course, it is a question that each of us here may have a different opinion on, and it is a very difficult decision for me, and that is why doing it on such short notice is not a very happy solution either. I understand that there may be those among us who consider the express incorporation of school and university sport into the Gesture of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports as a good step in principle. However, again there are unfortunately in the proposal... The proposal interferes with competences without any justification for this double-trackness of the organisation of sport and to present the arguments and objectives. It follows the budget of the Ministry of Education, competence disputes and some more precise legislative anchoring. For me, this simply cannot be dealt with by an accelerated MP amendment that is not sufficiently discussed across the resorts with sports unions. This is a big and crucial decision. The government has another one, two, three, four... I may stop at paragraph seven, but here again I quote: "The bill proposal is also largely inconspicuous. For example, the requirements for a member of the Board, the President and Vice-President are defined in one provision. In substance, the proposal for uncertainty on the competence of the President of the Agency and the Council, in view of the possibility of the Board to reserve the approval of other documents and its authorisation to impose tasks on the President by order within practically the entire scope of the Agency' and so on and so on. "This competence uncertainty is enhanced by the absence of a general definition of the board's function." And, of course, we can read it here, and it's already been written several times in public funds that this is the objective of the novel. Here it is completely purposeful and it has already been said several times, it is simply the way in which the coalition naturally wants to replace the President of the National Sports Agency. And I am asking you this, and it has also been said in our internal negotiations that we have conducted: what is the reason to have such a set of competence requirements for the President of the National Sports Agency? When we say that we want the NSA at the level of the Ministry, if we want to go forward, and we agree on that in the majority that we want to do the Ministry of Sport, then what is the logic? We don't have anything like that in ministers. Minister or chairman of the NSA... Another way. If we had this with ministers, some ministers couldn't even be in the current government because they don't have a college degree. For example, a colleague of Janda, who you can imagine would manage the National Sports Agency correctly, could not be president of the National Sports Agency. If we want to have the head of the NSA as a person who will be the head of Czech sport, it could not be thanks to this law, for example - I don't know - Petr Čech or Pavel Nedvěd. And these are people who, of course, are currently, for example, tall officials, tall managers in organizations that have a budget that is several times higher than the National Sports Agency's budget. And we would only disqualify them from not being able to be chairman of the National Sports Agency. And I'm not saying this because I think the chairman shouldn't have a college education, but the sports environment is so much different that a lot of people who do sports just maybe didn't have time to finish college education. And I imagine we're really disqualifying a lot of people with this. The government then emphasizes some legislatively inaccurate things, some legtechs, which, of course, I can imagine that we will adjust and we will be able to adjust in second reading by some amendments, but the government says in its opinion that the proposal needs a thorough revision. And in this case, I'm -- excuse me -- but I don't understand a very neutral position, because when I imagine that the law needs a thorough revision, I'd rather expect it to give a dissenting opinion. In view of what I have read as the Government's position, at this point I propose to return the law to the appellant for recasting, because, as has already been said by the petitioner, there are likely to be major changes in this law, which I think we should not do only in the second reading. At the same time, if my motion to re-work had not passed, I propose that we extend the deadline by 30 days between first and second reading so that we have sufficient time to negotiate. And now, let me just thank the translator for addressing the subject here, however, as I said at the beginning, unfortunately this will not solve the problems of Czech sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have registered both proposals - both for the return to completion and possibly for the extension of deadlines. Your speech called for one written statement of fact, which takes precedence over the application from the place. So please, Mr. Klíma, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Originally, I only wanted to respond to Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, yet I still want to thank Mr. Babek for saying that he himself stated that the current operation of the NSA has its flies, that it is basically not fully operational and that there is something to be done. [[15.30 hours]] Now, then, let me just respond to Vice-President Vildumetzová, through Madam President. You know, you had the opportunity in 2018, to rebuild the NSA system or support sport in the Czech Republic. You set up a dysfunctional system, and I'll tell you from practice. As Deputy Governor of the South Bohemia Region, a member of the Association of Regions, I do not have the opportunity to see transparently what will be written and certainly not to interfere with the creation of any challenges, at least in the form of some feedback. I have even found that, as a Member of the Education Committee and a Sub-Committee on Sport, I have no opportunity to control where the billions go. Here it was said how many in the ANO government went to the NSA billions. Let's face it, in both 2020 and 2021, not once has this item been exhausted, and it has not been exhausted precisely because of the failure to set up and process the challenge system. That's just how it is, and if you're creating at any level, like just small towns, you have an item that doesn't run out twice in a row, then at a time when you want to save, you just don't give the full amount, you just give something basic. So that's why we're meeting here, why we're preparing a system amendment so that it's flexible so that we can see it as Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u11	Thank you for keeping time, and now with my actual... Excuse me? [[Mr Kubíček reports that it is correct.]] You want to be duly logged in, I understand, so please, without a time limit, Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would also like to thank Mr Haas from this point of view for taking this very difficult issue into consideration and for trying to discuss it, but I still take the National Sports Agency as such an accessory to the Ministry of Sport. That's what we've always talked about here. Why was the creation of a National Sports Agency in the first place? Previously, money was distributed to the Ministry of Education, where there was a department, and in some way there was quite a lot of pressure and a lack of transparency in the distribution of funds. Of course, the National Sports Agency was born under great birth pains under the cross-section of all sides. It's not that the YES movement did it, but it worked in some way, and the procedure it was really supposed to create a need for the Ministry of Sport, which would have a different structure, other competences, other solutions, and the National Sports Agency got into some sort of vacuum. I know it, of course. I know this from some fellow athletes and sports associations, how individual subsidies worked and some subsidies were good, were very fast - operating subsidies worked: My club, My cabin, it was probably good, but of course the big subsidies were in some kind of birth pain. And now I've seen the last challenge, which, within six weeks, demanded that individual associations work out and ask for the money, which was actually a completely nonsensical, gallows term. Even my colleague gave me information that their sports club would like to ask that this gallows deadline is impossible for them. However, one more thing that is. At the same time, the functioning of the National Sports Agency needed support in the Sports Act, which we lack in the long term and is not working for twenty years, and it would like to set up a certain organisational structure of the sports environment, the competence and role of all participants, and also to set up the so-called priorityisation of sports that everyone is defending, but outside this Chamber of Deputies everyone is talking about it because it is not quite the nice thing to say, and these are the coefficients of the evaluation of individual sports and their support. In any case, it would probably have more continuity and greater depth if some reconstruction of the National Sports Agency had taken place only after the Act on Sport has been amended, and at the moment, in the current situation, the most worrying Czech sport, are the funds that will be coming into it. After consulting the sports environment, I have heard the amount of 11 to 12 billion that would be needed for next year to keep these organizations in some way. Of course, there were some calculations for endless growth in electricity prices, where sports clubs already said they would have to close, that it was impossible. Now there is a recount at the level of cities, municipalities and so on. The situation will be a little bit better, but we will say a little better, but this does not mean that there is no limit. Then we got to what we actually wanted at the very beginning with the National Sports Agency, and that was actually the support of youth, talented youth and youth in the style of what all the educators were calling for, and that's the lack of movement for our children, because today's time of electronic communication, computers, Facebook, mobile phones really doesn't make those kids come and meet their friends because they can do it remotely, and sport is slightly falling. And I will be very admired by volunteers who are free of charge to children in the global, but one of the goals was that gym teachers, coaches, and so on, in some way, they could support this youth, engage in it organizedly, but that they could also be evaluated for it and get some financial support. Unfortunately, this does not solve the amendment and it is very important for me that it has opened up, worked on it, but I have first read some comments from the sports associations, further I have read comments from the government and it is necessary to work on it further and in some way to reconstruct it. I don't know if it's absolutely necessary to adopt this law very quickly or to bring it back to work in my image and somehow hand it over to the Chamber of Deputies in a cross-cutting, completely bulletproof way. Indeed, Mr Haas is a person who does so, and I commend him very much for that. We talked, we talked. He - as I would say, I don't want it... that would be such a lot of pejorative - but I say out of nothing to knit a whip, and it is so hard, because he also has tied hands and in some way has to work with what he is, and probably that goal was and the reaction was mainly to national grant titles and so that they go quickly to clubs, to recipients who work because we know that several times the subsidy title has been proposed, abolished for formal reasons, and this should not happen. So the right way - we do not know how much it can be supplemented, corrected and so on, so I would say: we will return, work, return to the Chamber of Deputies. It's one of the ways. Or the second way is to extend the deadline between first and second reading to do so, and we will be at the disposal of the Member for consultation and for further continuation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon, colleagues. I am taking over the management of the meeting and we will continue with the factual remark made by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I would take the liberty of responding to Mr Klíma, through Madam President, because he said here that he was the Deputy Governor, that he had no information and that he wanted to control it in some way. I therefore think that competent people should control this; I am very surprised because if you are the Deputy Head of the South Bohemian Region, the President of the National Sports Council is the President of the Regional Association, which is the Governor of the South Bohemian Region Martin Kuba, and that information can be requested by the National Sports Council within the Association of Regions, the President of the National Sports Council may invite them to the Association of Regions, possibly to a possible commission, and I do not expect the President of the National Sports Agency to refuse to come to these people and to submit any information that they would require. If you look at the website of the National Sports Council, you can see how the control mechanisms and everything are going on there. If there is anything that can be improved in this area, there is no way I have a problem with it, but I do not think that if we make a five-member body that the government decides, and it will certainly be people who will not do it in full-time quotation marks, there is no way that I am convinced that what it is to bring will bring. [[15.40 hours]] And once again, I am stressing that I think that the 21-member National Council, which, in my opinion, is, from a technical point of view, is sufficient, so I think that it may be possible to meet more often and may react if necessary. But do you know what the National Sports Council is based on? In finance. If he doesn't have the money, he won't have anything to give those sports clubs. And if we give money now to raise the number of people again, we'll take them away from athletes and sports clubs. [[President: Time, Madam Vice-President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to Mr Šimk in fact, I will read an apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes from 15.30 to 22 hours for medical reasons. And now I beg Mr. David Šimek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to respond very quickly to Vice-President Mr Vildumetzová's speech, through you, Madam President. I'll take it from a double point of view. I am the chairman of the School Commission of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and, you know, my colleague, as the former director of this institution, that the Union of Towns is indeed an excellent point of reference and could often, in the past, be a good partner in the creation and construction of the National Sports Agency. Unfortunately, a lot of things were not answered in the process, even though in the past, when the grant investment challenges were set, the Union of Cities warned that the challenges were wrong, that there would be a problem with distribution. We made comments about this in order to set the challenges differently. Unfortunately, we haven't been heard. We saw ourselves in 2020, 2021, when the challenges announced by the National Sports Agency had to be canceled, new challenges were invented, because the mistakes made by the Union of Towns and Municipalities were not actually applied, and new challenges were invented accordingly. This year, when a group of Members dedicated to sport asked President Neusser to adjust the subsidy challenges and to really reflect on the mistakes made in the past, even though we asked for investment calls to be announced in January, they were only launched at the beginning of September. I don't understand why. They could have been written nine months ago. They were also listed with terms that were not discussed with any partners in the territory. So once again, there are a lot of mistakes that will lead to significantly limited applicants and will be difficult to exhaust the subsidies. And that's true - and I agree with you that money for sports is needed... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Yes, but unfortunately My club - still 2,000 requests are not settled at all, and they were submitted in November last year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u17	Thank you. I will now ask for the de facto Mr Pavel Klíma, Mr Adamec will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, through Madam President, the fact that I do not have information as a member of the Association of Regions is precisely that, of course, we will invite the President of the National Sports Agency there, and we will simply not know. He said a lot for me here, Mr. Šimek. Basically, some conditions for approaching challenges. The fact that then there's a challenge that applicants have six weeks for, well, that's unbelievable. And now imagine that you may have an investment challenge for sports clubs and physical unity, a maximum of 110 points, here I can show you in the table, and from that you get a full 20 points for having a signed contract for work. [[shows]] So now you're all involved in some kind of community policy or whatever, so this is just enough as a picture of the functioning of the National Sports Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Adamec will now speak with the de facto Member, and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm hearing some conflicting opinions here. I didn't vote for the agency then because I thought it was better if it worked under the Ministry despite the problems that were there - just set better parameters. On the one hand, I hear that something is going to cost us officials who should improve the functioning of the Agency so that it can finally work, and on the other hand, here we are talking about the Ministry of Sport. And let's remember that it's a completely different cost for the money. I remember the time when sazka collapsed, when it was going in a completely different way. In fact, back then, the athletes destroyed a golden piggy who was pouring money because the squirrels behaved like they did. It ended in a debacle. It's been sticky ever since. It's got the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in it. It's already in the name of the body building. And now there's an agency that obviously doesn't work out the way I see it, and I'm just taking this proposal as a way of specifying that agency's performance in some way. The fact that there's a lot of comments, I get that. Every parliamentary proposal is very problematic when it concerns such an important sector as sport. I would have imagined it a little differently, too, but I understand the petitioner, and I understand that they want the athletes to really get the money physically, and not just in their vows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak with the facts and I ask the rapporteur if he wishes to do so afterwards? With priority rights, yes, okay. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Only the response at this moment again to Mr Klíma, and I think who else was speaking at this moment - Mr Adamec. You know, I can certainly agree with you that some of these things - and certainly, when I was in the position of the chieftain, I was also not satisfied with some things, that there is no need for the timetable as it should have been, or what you said it should have been well written. And you're convinced that if you put in a five-man advice that's going to be paid with big money, that it's going to be so totally pink and great and that everyone will be happy with it? Or when Mr Adamec says at this point, through Madam President, that we do not want an increase in officials, but when you say that you will reduce the officials, practically who are working on the programmes there today, and you will do - and you will give the funds that you will take to the officials, on the five-member board. I mean, look at the document, it's clearly written that you're gonna do it this way! So I understand that everything can be set better and better, but there's no way I think it's time for that today, and I think that the 21-member National Council, which works for free, doesn't cost a crown, can meet at far more frequent intervals and can express itself to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u23	Thank you. Mr. Petr Gazdík will now take the stand, and Marek Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The law is here because the National Sports Agency doesn't work, and ask any club about the experience of the last two years, how subsidies are written, what is the transparency of the agency, how they cannot manage the subsidies in time. And that's not what I'm talking about is mixing the young people who are supposed to be under the Ministry of Education and the school sport, when the agency also writes subsidies for the same thing. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mr Babka, both through Madam President, are upset here over the five-member supervisory board. I'll tell you the facts. The last year of operation at the Ministry of Education cost 7 billion distribution of sport subsidies, which divided 15 people, approximately 20 million crowns. From the annual report of the National Sports Agency - there were 70 people there last year and it cost 130 million crowns. And you're going to be upset over a five-man supervisory board. This is what you've done, an inoperative 130 million-dollar agency. We're trying to fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u25	Mr Marek Novák, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, will now take action. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think we're fighting here for nothing, because we all have the same goal, and that the clubs get the money when they have it. I'm the chairman of the club who asked for a grant under the My Club Program, the money came, and unfortunately came now at the end of September, which is great. Even better is the red paragraph in terms that says that by the end of the year, of course, we have to settle the whole amount, which is awesome. Nobody asks how we financed until September. [[15.50 hours]] But let's not talk about who's responsible for the state he is now, but let's talk about how to fix him. That's why we're here. So let's stop fighting, let's stop blaming each other, because we all know who the president of the National Sports Agency is. Whoever's naming him can call him off. We know very well how it was with the finances, how it was with the funds for major actions. There was almost no Barum Rally in Zlín. It wasn't until when everything was possible and impossible and even the sport subcommittee worked, that eventually money was found for these programs, for major events. So please, we're all in the same boat, let's solve the process, let's not worry about whether it's supposed to be run by a five-man board or by one member, but really whether the people who are there are processing it, whether they have enough resources. We heard from my colleague Gazdík that he probably did financially, but maybe it's in other things, maybe it's in IT systems, I don't know. But let's focus on being able to make quick decisions, evaluate applications, and make sure the clubs don't hurt. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u27	Thank you. He's getting off now... the Vice-President is pulling off. Mr Haas will now speak with priority in the debate. [[He objects to being a representative of a group of petitioners.]] Yes, the rapporteur's deputy. Sorry, sorry, you're the rapporteur. Excuse me, translator, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u28	There, there. I beg you, with the actual ones, did not knowingly act in such a way as to attempt to respond effectively in one contribution to the course of today's meeting to all the points that have been raised here. I'm gonna try to be completely material. I'm going to start with this thing in front of a parentheses, a rhetorical question: Who in this House - and I stress that it is a rhetorical question - who in this House thinks the National Sports Agency is working properly? I was wondering how many of you would apply. B, I suppose we all know this - now I'm not playing hero, I think Einstein said it: Either we can do these things the same way, but we can't expect any other outcome, or we can try to change things in a reasonable way. I thought I made it clear in the opening performance of the proposal that we are not going the way of the revolution, we are going the way of reasonable evolution. That's factored out in front of the parentheses. Now, after all these particular comments in the matter. It has been mentioned here several times, I will not appoint all my colleagues, but I have seen it from more than one mouth, it is a legitimate question of whether the timely submission of this parliamentary proposal is correct. Please, it's been working on the parliamentary motion since spring. And now I'm going to say one thought that applies not only to this proposal, but to all the other material proposals that have the bad luck - I believe that you perceive from my voice that I say it lightly in quotes - they have the bad luck that they do not relate to energy or inflation. Are we going to stop this country running because we have - and I'm not doing it - a very serious energy, economic situation and so on? Are we not going to deal with other things, this country's sectoral issues, like sports or the environment or social issues and so on and so on? That's my only reaction to the timing. After all, because of other very important issues, we should not resign to sensible solutions in other matters in this country. I guess that's all I can say for the timing. The second comment that resonated a lot here - please, and now I'm going to say it in slang - the number of so-called paid seats. Indeed, because he went through the fifth, this is how he went to the government, this is how you have it as a House press in the proposal - because we considered a collective five-member body from the benchmark with other central government bodies, from the benchmark with a private sphere, with the board of directors of companies, a five-member managing body of any institution to be effective. We saw - I say this out loud - a very reasonable feedback from the government. I can say - I hope you believe me, because I don't have that in writing for you right now - that we are clearly in a group of petitioners agreed that the number - but the structure is not changing, and this is, please, the fundamental difference, the monocratic structure or the collective governing body - so we are reducing the number to three. That's what I'm pointing out here. That's one thing. In other words, contrary to today's structure - but this is not the collective governing body of the President and the two Vice-Presidents of the National Sports Agency - we will not change the number of members in the top management of the National Sports Agency in any way. The Supervisory Committee shall be proposed free of charge. At the same time, there were reservations about what we expect from the Supervisory Commission. Please, I think that all the parties in this House will nominate if they have - and I say that this is correct - if the key central authorities have a supervisory body - I have appointed a VZP here, I could please appoint state funds, whether housing support, transport infrastructure and so on, especially those institutions that somehow have large funds, typically with subsidies, so have a supervisory authority. I assume that all parties in this Chamber of Deputies nominate their members to those supervisory bodies because they believe that the ongoing control and existence of supervisory or supervisory bodies is for the benefit of the matter, not for the benefit of the matter. So I wonder why all political parties across the Chamber of Deputies nominate persons directly to the Supervisory Boards, to supervisory bodies, to similar state institutions. But that's just a reaction to the sound of it. I thought that, when presenting the proposal on the fundamental point, the ongoing control and the existence of a supervisory body to each institution, whether private or public, helped. That's the dominant thing. I stress that the Supervisory Commission is proposed as free of charge in the proposal. The third point, which has been raised several times, is the National Sports Council. If you know the law, please read the existing § 3c of the current law. The National Sports Council has no competence whatsoever, but in words it has no competence whatsoever. This is a purely advisory body, but an advisory body with zero, zero powers and competence. Please, I refer to § 3c of the current wording of the law. On the other hand, the supervisory authority implementing the amendment, that is to say the Supervisory Commission, has a standard legal competence and competence to look into the Agency's documents and information, to control its management, to check whether its activities are carried out in accordance with the law and so on. Today, the National Sports Council cannot do that at all, and it has no authority or competence to do so. Fourth, there was a question here, I will be happy to answer him if the proposal was discussed with the professional organizations municipalit, meaning the three dominant ones - the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic and the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. I confirm that at a half-day meeting here in the House, although we were not obliged to do so, we invited representatives of all these three key professional organizations to ammunition. None of these professional organizations expressed any opposition to the proposal or sent any comment on the bill to the petitioners, so it was discussed. I'm able to trace the paperwork. That means - I don't remember you now, please - the leadership of these three associations has always been addressed. Fifthly, there was a question of finance and the fact that, without money, such proposals do not matter. Money for Czech sport is once, not the only, necessary condition for Czech sport to shift at all levels in some way. Likewise, this amendment - I would only go back to the introduction - either we can sit and do nothing, or we can try to change things. I am not saying that it is the rescue of Czech sport, but it is one of the necessary puckles for Czech sport to move on. In my opinion, the government's unfair accusations that it does not respond to finance in any way have fallen to finance. [[16.00 hours]] I would like to say two very important economic elements, the facts that relate to finance. On the vast majority - I do not claim that for all - there is that ceiling, which is declared by the government in the framework of the ceiling. To the vast majority of sports organizations, terminus techicus legislative for associations, clubs and so on, there will be a ceiling. Please, the ceiling on energy prices is a little financial support? This is support in the order of tens of billions of crowns from the state budget, of course for all recipients, where they will fall to that limit, now don't grab my word, 630 or 680, maybe someone will fix me, 630 - thank you - megawatt hours a year. From this you can see that it will fall on the vast majority of sports organizations, they will be in a racket mode. Huge financial support. The second point you're watching the government's negotiations is the end...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-001-095.u29	Mr. Speaker, I am very sorry, we have another point planned for 16 o'clock, so we have to interrupt this point 95 because we have a point 10 for 16 o'clock, so I am interrupting this point. And now we'd like to move on to a point number.
