ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, you have received House Document No 791. I ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who is coming, to present the proposal. I can still read Mr Milan Wenzl's apology for today due to illness and Mrs Helena Langšádlová's and Minister Helena Langšádlová between 16.30 and 23.59 for work reasons. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our government is again before you today to ask you to extend the emergency by 30 days. As I promised publicly, if the emergency is prolonged, it will be the last time. I understand that for many of you, of us, the concept of emergency has become a threat in the time of the coronavirus crisis, a scarecrow, to say the general public. Even I didn't like living in it for nearly 300 days in the last two years. When I say that, it follows that I am not a fan of the emergency situation, and I would not be standing here in front of you right now unless it was absolutely necessary in the current unprecedented refugee crisis. I know you know this well from experience, but I want you to hear clearly that the extension of the emergency situation will not affect Czech citizens. He has one reason - to cope with the refugee crisis from Ukraine, triggered by his aggressive actions, an aggressive invasion of Ukraine, Putinův's Russia. The past weeks and the practice of emergency use by our government have clearly shown that its current form does not lead to a ban on public and private events, as was the case at the time of the covid, nor does it serve to ban the operation of restaurants and shops, to close the state borders, to ban curfew, to collect, to close schools, to serve any restrictions on Czech citizens, to move them. The current form of emergency is of no concern to Czech citizens, and so will be the case if the House agrees to our request to extend the emergency for another 30 days. It serves for one thing, and it is the management of the migration crisis so that it does not have a negative impact on Czech citizens. In recent weeks, the emergency situation has helped state officials, police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses, soldiers, employees in the nonprofit sector, and all others involved in this, to cope with a huge refugee wave that has no parallel in history. Not only in the history of the Czech Republic, but also in the history of Europe. He helped them cope with this refugee wave by not touching the citizens of the Czech Republic, which we always considered important, and we have always clearly said that this will be the case and that we are trying to do so. Even so - and we must be aware - that we are not a neighbouring state with Ukraine, so we are one of the countries most affected by the refugee crisis, even because we are the target country for a number of Ukrainian refugees. Immediately after the invasion of Russia's troops in Ukraine, we began to organize aid to the first refugees. Here I want to stress again, they are women and children in particular, and they are people who run away from the war practically only with what they are wearing. They are not people looking for better social or economic conditions. They're people who want to save their lives. As the first in Europe, we came up with an immediate visa waiver, which later replaced virtually identical, practically identical, Union-wide temporary protection. We have thus enabled people fleeing the war to legalize their stay, we have provided them with municipalities and regions of accommodation, and we have allowed them to enter the labour market. To date, we have granted temporary protection to over 348,000 people. Of the adult population, these are mainly women who account for 72 percent who came with their children, which account for 37 percent of the refugees. What is important is that this number is already important, because practically whoever comes to us is registered, and that is far from the case in other European countries. But I will tell you one more number, which is extremely important: 50,000 adults from these refugees who have come in the last few weeks, 50,000 adults are already in the work process, they are on the labour market, standing on their own feet. It's important to realize that. Those who are employed are no longer dependent on the state, on our support, on the contrary, taking them into the social and health system, contributing to it and standing on their own feet. Fifty thousand adults are already working in the next few weeks. Within a few days, we have established regional assistance centres throughout the Czech Republic to help Ukraine. In February, March, April frosts no one had to sleep on the street or in some temporary places. Twice a week, he coordinates the situation of the Central Crisis Staff, headed by the Minister of the Interior, as it should be under crisis management. The National Assistance Centre for Ukraine has, of course, coordinated with all the assistance components in the regions. Practically immediately a nonstop line was established in Ukrainian, we started publishing all important information in Ukrainian on the website of the Ministry of Interior. We have established the website nasiukrainci.cz within a few days where Ukrajinec who came here found the information they needed, but where they also had all the necessary information Czech citizens who wanted to offer assistance to Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees. In addition, we immediately started preparing, and also prepared, financial support for Czech citizens who accommodate refugees. We have also used what the modern state offers and what the modern state should do: we have enabled refugees to use data pages and digital identity so that they do not have to go to the authorities if they do not want to. I have to say that everything I'm saying here, the steps and the numbers are the reason why they appreciate us abroad today, why they say that the Czech Republic is a model example of how this can work and how such a refugee wave can be managed. Of course, we don't just take steps that respond to the current situation that solves the day-to-day problems. We look ahead and we take strategic steps. We have prepared material that has set out the government's strategic priorities for medium- and long-term management. There are 13 strategic priorities for the program, and the goal is to manage the refugee wave as well in the months ahead as we did in the first crisis weeks. [[15.20 hours]] Yes, of course, as I was saying, we're facing an unprecedented wave. There were days when 17 000 refugees came to the Czech Republic a day, and these were not easy moments. Of course, things could not be handled smoothly at the time, but, as I said, overall, we managed to do best in Europe and come to us from abroad to see how our regional assistance center system works. Today, of course, the numbers coming - and you who are watching it, so you know - are not nearly as high, they range between 1,200 and 1,800 a day, but still correspond to the type of emergency plans. And we still need to be able to respond flexibly to current problems. That is why the government has prepared and approved the so-called Lex Ukraine II, one of the important measures that will enable the refugee wave to be managed in the coming weeks and months, however strong it will be, without emergency. But we need to approve this legislative regulation over the next 30 days, or that extra month, so that we have all the tools to deal with the refugee wave without emergency. As I said at the beginning, we ask for an extension of the emergency situation in connection with the refugee crisis in Ukraine for the last time. Its reason, the reason for the request, is not and has never been a restriction on the freedoms of Czech citizens or any purchases without transparent tenders, or what sounded like criticism. The only reason we are asking for an extension of the emergency is because we want to continue to cope with the refugee crisis as best we can, so that it does not touch Czech citizens and, at the same time, that we are able to help mommies and their children, those who run from the war and want to save their lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for understanding this, and I ask you to support our proposal and comply with the Government's request to extend the emergency by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan will also appear as the petitioner. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, as the promoter - in a moment I will sit at the table and listen carefully to the debate that will follow in the Chamber of Deputies, and I fully hope that it will be constructive, factual. I say in advance that I will not answer each individual performance individually, I will always try to sum up after several performances and then apply with specific answers to your questions, which will certainly be raised here in a constructive debate. Let me start by saying that the government of the Czech Republic has fulfilled what it promised in an emergency state, especially that it will use the emergency situation as defined in crisis legislation, as a crisis instrument that solves the particular danes of the crisis caused by Russia by its aggression in Ukraine, that this emergency situation will not affect any way of normal life of citizens in the Czech Republic, we will not close anyone at home, we will not shorten the operating time of anyone in his district, so that no one can travel out of it. I dare say that most citizens of the Czech Republic have not even noticed in recent weeks that we are in emergency mode. Of course, we perceive that the emergency situation itself does not have a very good reputation at home after all these years. The covid crisis was unprecedented and exposed us, the whole society, to a huge test. On the other hand, it really needs to be realised that at present we need to apply some emergency measures that simply cannot be applied without emergency, or if we try to circumvent them in some toilous way, for example, we would call the migration crisis an event of such a magnitude that requires some emergency measures, so in a few weeks and months we will be in a state that the court will quite rightly destroy our individual declared emergency measures one by one and we will be in a very uncomfortable state against all those who consume, perhaps, some financial transactions arising from those crisis measures as such. Let me give you a few specific examples for which we still need an emergency situation in the Czech Republic. I'm not gonna say it fits all the types of plans. This will probably be the answer for a month, the number of arrivals in the Czech Republic. But very specific. If we want to provide accommodation capacity in cooperation with the region, we should not enter today or get off after 31. 5. from emergency mode, we will make life very difficult for local authorities who have been helping us all the time - and I thank them for it, whether they are mayors or captains - to cope with the migration crisis, to seek accommodation for people, to provide them. At the same time, not all types of accommodation that we currently provide comply with standard standards for providing accommodation in the Czech Republic. However, in the rush of the people who came here, we simply need such forms of accommodation, and for that it is also necessary to consume at present what allows us to have an emergency. We simplify the processes of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, payment of benefits. At the same time, we could not, for example, maintain a reduced period of three days until which refugees must report a change in their whereabouts. The opposition here is quite rightly asking where the refugees are, how many are there and so on. I will represent a very detailed and specific system here in the debate, how we will get to the exact numbers of where and how many people we have from Ukraine in the Czech Republic. So far, it's just estimates. For your information, the pilot project so far shows that the data in the foreign police are sitting at some 75 percent plus minus. We need more accurate data, and we need measures for people to be obliged to report a change in their stay within three days. At the same time, the cooperation of the Police of the Czech Republic at the Regional Assistance Centres to help Ukraine, when they carry out the official work that is usually carried out by officials of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy, is also an instrument that we use precisely because we have an emergency situation here. But as the Prime Minister said, we want him for the last time. And we will also need your cooperation and assistance and a reasonable approach to the Chamber of Deputies. We will come up with such an amendment to lex Ukraine, which will allow us not to have an emergency since July, to treat the most painful places that we can currently do without emergency. In that case, however, we need the House to work in June, so that the House runs in June, so that the committees discuss the material in question to give their views, comments. And to do that, colleagues and colleagues, we need that month. It's illusionary to assume that this will happen in two weeks. That's the thing we need a month of emergency for. If you are telling us "to inform us transparently, openly, to discuss in committee," yes, but this cannot be done in 14 days of the proposed emergency situation. We need that month, we need your cooperation, we need the Chamber of Deputies not to go the way of obstruction about the Lex Ukraine, because the sentence A and the sentence B cannot apply at the same time. If someone from the opposition says: we don't want an emergency situation and we don't vote for it - the whole opposition doesn't say it, I know it, I say part of the opposition - says the sentence A and B would surround lex Ukraine, so it doesn't make sense. Then we are outside the legislative framework so that we can manage the refugee crisis. This means, if anyone says: we do not want an emergency, we say: come help us with the fact that during the thirty days that we are asking you today, the Chamber of Deputies, to go through the legislative process with all the essentials, and we have at the end of June such an instrument that will enable us to manage and reduce further strategic steps on the matter of providing or accepting refugees to the Czech Republic. [[15.30 hours]] And allow me one more piece of information. It is often said, and it is such a winged theorem of the opposition that the ministries spend and do not write selection procedures and the state spends money. Allow me statistics for individual ministries: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, contracts without selection procedure in times of emergency - zero. Ministry of Agriculture, public procurement without a tender during an emergency - zero. Ministry of Industry and Trade - zero. Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - zero. Department of Defense - zero. That means all these resorts have no expenses. For the Ministry of the Interior, these are contracts which are up to 16. 5. a cumulative amount of 82 million rounded down. I can read you the most important things here, of course it will be presented to you. It was the rental of accommodation capacities in pensions, hotels, carried out by the Administration of refugee facilities. To be sure, I sent an internal audit of the Ministry of the Interior to this organization, which examined in detail all the management during the emergency period - without any defects. At the same time it was the purchase of visa labels for CZK 16.3 million. Then it was the purchase of ID cards and registration certificates for OAM for CZK 11.7 million, 8.3 million it cost the purchase of deck chairs, carimates, sleeping bags, transfusion bags, reflective vests, shelves, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, cookers. The orderer was Fire Rescue and Police of the Czech Republic. And at the end of the day, for 3.5 million I.D.s and permanent residence permits. That's all he spent on standing in an emergency state. So this argument, please, is odd. And, of course, we will be in a similar way, or we will not proceed in the next 30 days that await us. I dare even say that the expenses for the interior department will also be close to zero, because we have bought the basics. At the most, we'll be getting some prints or reacting to the quick needs that we have here. I repeat again, the sum of the arguments I have put forward, we do not abuse the emergency situation against the citizens of the Czech Republic. We don't abuse it in any way or economically. We will need the emergency situation for the last time if we manage logically, rationally and after consulting with you within 30 days to approve and discuss the amendment of lex Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u5	I thank the Minister for putting the point. Now I will read another agreement and one that is withdrawn, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, who cancels her apology from today. On the contrary, Mr David Kasal apologizes between 15.00 and 16.30. Mr Pavel Klíma extends his apology for the whole working day and Mr Josef Kott apologises between 15 and 17 hours for reasons of work. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no written observations may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for the presentation of the opinion of the Members' Club. I am now opening the debate. President Jakob, President Okamura, President Schillerová and SPD are in charge of presenting the club's position today. Those are priority rights. Subsequently, they are entered in the general debate or the debate, one debate is held, Mr Nacher, Mrs Dostálová, Mr Hrnčíř, Mr Kettner and Mr Ryba twice. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr. Member, Chairman of the Jakob Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister very much for the precise presentation, but briefly and factually, of the agenda we will be discussing today, namely the extension of the emergency situation. And I firmly believe that, in this spirit, the following discussion will also be held. I would like to point out at this point that this meeting is convened pursuant to Section 109m of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, so today's meeting does not apply to the standard section 53 of our Rules of Procedure, which limits the time of negotiations and the possibility of voting, so we can act and vote without limitation throughout the 21st and the next hour until we discuss this point. So that's just what I wanted to say at the beginning of our discussion, so that we can all count on it. And I believe that this discussion will really be substantive and that today we will also be voting, and I firmly believe that we will extend the emergency situation by those 30 days that, as has fallen, are necessary for us here, but also the Senate subsequently, to be able to discuss and approve the new version of Lex Ukraine, i.e. Lex Ukraine II, so that after the next 30 days there is no need for any extension of the emergency situation. I firmly believe that today we will deal with the last necessary extension of the emergency situation so that the government, at the lower levels of all of us in the regions, in our cities, can cope well with the refugee crisis. So I very much support this proposal. I believe that the discussion will be substantive, that we will be able to manage it before the standard time for discussion. I point out once again that we can act as long as we want until this point is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, too. I note that Vice-President Skopeček is voting today with a replacement card number 15. Therefore, President Tomio Okamura is now in favour of the priority right. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, today we stand before the request of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, who wants to extend the emergency for another month again, until the end of June. The SPD movement does not agree with the current government declared emergency and we will vote against the extension of the emergency. And the SPD will be the only party to vote against the extension of the emergency situation here, because the government five-wheelers are proposing an extension by the month, by the end of June, and the YES movement is proposing an extension by 14 days. So things have been pretty different around here. Again, the SPD will vote against extending the emergency situation. And we didn't vote, nor did we vote for the current emergency situation. The Government justifies its request by the need to create further scope for dealing with the situation surrounding migrants from Ukraine in the area of accommodation arrangements for owners of accommodation facilities and possibilities of government financial compensation for the costs of migrants to the regions. But the government doesn't need an emergency for that. We take the view that the current situation can be dealt with by means of standard legislation. Accommodation can be dealt with by providers for example by agreement and increased costs to regions can be made, for example, by changes in the parameters of the Act within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. Moreover, the current government has already had three months to address the issue of accommodation capacity for migrants and to adopt the relevant legislation. [[15.40 hours]] In addition, the emergency situation in the Czech Republic has lasted almost 24/7 for more than two years, which is unprecedented anywhere in Europe, even in countries that, like us, are facing a migration wave from Ukraine. Petr Fiala's government wants to strengthen its power at the expense of legislative and judicial power by continuing to prolong the emergency situation. The SPD is refusing this abuse of the Emergency Institute, and as I was saying, we're going to vote against an extension of the emergency. Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and Interior Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement repeatedly lied publicly to our citizens when they said that the government's declared emergency state would not affect citizens in the Czech Republic. Don't you see what you've done at the Prague Central Station? You don't see what you've done to the employment offices, where the workers of these offices are already quite rightly complaining about an unbearable situation, and they want to give statements? And we all know how you approve billions of public money under a covert regime because of the emergency, and so did mainstream media. Billions that now fly into the air, but not Mr. Rakušan, nor Mr. Fiala, but all citizens of this country. So our citizens are in a hell of a state of emergency. Many of the current Ukrainian migrants are using our republic, and the government of Petr Fiala is literally making us useful idiots. Unfortunately, in the short term, my words are fully fulfilled in relation to the Ukrainians, for which I was severely attacked by some media and government party policies a few days ago. Well, hard, I'm not doing anything about it anyway, because we're convinced of our truth. And even the captains are starting to publicly support it, starting to publicly support what I publicly pointed out as the first politician, and criticizing the inability of the Fialův government. For example, the governor of the Ústí Region, Jan Schiller, said yesterday - and I quote: "We note that people who are not completely affected by war can live in their territory and are not threatened by life. " - In his territory in Ukraine. He also said this - I quote: "As we communicate with the other captains, it feels like social tourism, when the Ukrajinec found that our system is very generous to help. " - Well, the system set up by the government of Petr Fiala and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for our money. I continue to quote: "There are cases where refugees register here, take financial aid and disappear further into Europe, or even return to Ukraine. " - The governor said that the refugees are using the system. Well, I'd say system abuse. The abuse of the poorly set system by the government of Petr Fiala. Regarding the inadaptable Ukrainian migrants brought to the Czech Republic by the government of Petr Fiala, CNN Schiller next said on TV - I quote: "We found that these are people who can't read, write, even use an ordinary toilet and turn on the kettle. Apparently, they've never worked and they're never gonna work. Such people need such great care that we would need one worker, one Czech worker, who will take care of them, and we really do not have such capacity for that." - That's the end of the Governor's quote. So, Minister, you know, Rakušan, that's the real deal. So you don't have to fool us around here, you want to tell me a lie, but, okay, I'm gonna use a more wrappy, wrap-up expression. But that's the reality, so don't paint it pink here, we're not really gonna believe it, because we know what the reality is in practice. So you really don't have to make fools of us here when we all know how it really is. In short, the incompetent government of Petr Fiala, including the completely incompetent Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement, is literally costing us all dearly. Literally. They have brought our republic into confusion and chaos, and even after a few months they are unable to present a strategy for the impact of the migration wave on Czech citizens. And I'm gonna take a turn here for a second. In recent days, we have learned that the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS has definitely given up fighting price increases. Economic advisor to Prime Minister Petr Fiala Štěpán Křeček wrote publicly on behalf of the Fialův Government - I quote: "We lost the fight against inflation. Now there is no conceivable way for our government to stop the sharp rise in prices quickly." - End of quote. And I'm telling this government the only thing that can be said about this: pass the resignation immediately! In this situation, President Zeman should also intervene, because the fact that this government of dilettants, which in six months will destroy our entire republic and throw millions of citizens into poverty, such a government must leave immediately. The clueless Prime Minister, who, after a few months, gives up fighting for his country and throws citizens overboard, must stop immediately. You're simply harming our republic and our citizens and not helping them. And a government that doesn't want to help people get expensive, and when the Prime Minister's chief official economic advisor says that you lost the fight against inflation and that you don't know how to deal with it anymore, such a government is completely useless to our citizens. But let's get back to the emergency debate. We should all know the law that defines when an emergency can be declared. The government may declare an emergency in the event of natural disasters, environmental or industrial accidents, accidents or other hazards which, to a large extent, endanger lives, health or property values or internal order and safety. So the government wants to openly admit that the migration wave is a natural disaster? Because this reason is really for reflection. The reason you want to declare it is to think about it, because the reasons are clearly defined. Supporting the real victims of war, helping people proven to be on the run from bombing is right and necessary. But what Petr Fiala's government is doing is not just helping refugees before the war. What the government is doing is in the emergency state of luring and economic migrants into our Republic and the abuse of our taxpayers' money. My words are also confirmed by official Ukrainian officials. Many migrants are also condemned by Ukrajinec themselves. President Sergej Leščenko advisor - I quote: "Of the four million who left, only about a million were in some real danger. Some left because they panicked. Some left because they were looking for an excuse to leave. And only some left because they were really threatened." - End of quote by the advisor to President Zelenský Sergej Leščenko. And the Czech government, Petr Fiala's government, is like - well, I was going to say from Mars, but if it's an insult to the government, I don't really know what to say anymore. [[With a smile.]] I find Mars quite an interesting planet. But let's keep going. According to the world media, last Sunday was the first day more Ukrajinec returned to Ukraine than leaving. Ukrainian mothers with children justify this in interviews for world television crews by being safe in their locations where they come from in Ukraine. I myself saw it on the world news with my own eyes on Sunday night. And there were interviews with Ukrainian moms right on the Polish-Ukrainian border, which, in large numbers, is going back to Ukraine, and those TV crews asked them, why are you coming back? They answered the camera: because it's safe there in the places where we live, we live, life normally works there. So, in my opinion, the Fialův Government should start shutting down Ukrajinec from safe areas of residence permits in the Czech Republic and returning them back home to build their country. Like these Ukrainian mothers with children who are already returning to Ukraine. They're going back there on their own. And we all know that in the vast majority of the territory of the 45 million-dollar Ukraine, which has an area of 600,000 square kilometres, almost nine times more than our republic, there was no war and no war. The government of Petr Fiala and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan does not work with these facts at all. All you're saying is, let's accept everyone, and without limit, and integrate. But I say that it will cause, and it is already causing, a great social tension in the Czech Republic, this is your unmanaged policy, this unmanaged system. [[15.50 hours]] In this sense, the Fialův Government even presented a government strategy on the new hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian migrants in the Czech Republic. I quote: we will have to erase the difference between the incoming and our citizens. Soon the refugees will also become Czech citizens, said Prime Minister of Government TOP 09 Ondřej Kolář on television. He was talking about a government strategy. So the new voters of the Fialův government coalition, which is dropping the trust of our citizens? A government coalition, where three of the five coalition parties are below 5% on or below the option limit? I am not surprised that the TOP 09 Member, who had three percent in the last survey, is talking about this. They've plummeted in a catastrophic fashion. But that can happen to all of us. But I'm talking about how they're talking about it now. So what will it look like for our citizens with access to health care, overcrowded education and labour market situations? The influx of migrants has also made rental housing for example in Prague steeply more expensive, so many of our citizens can't even afford to rent an apartment. And when will the Fialův Government finally take time to help Czech citizens with the increase in energy, food, housing and fuel? Probably never. Because here the economic advisor of Prime Minister Petr Fiala Štěpán Křeček has already written it publicly. I saw him write it myself. And it was also in the media. On behalf of your government, he said: "We lost the fight against inflation. Now, there is no conceivable way for our government to stop sharply rising prices quickly. - So you've broken the staff over everything. But again, that's for immediate withdrawal. Because if you don't have a solution, let somebody else do it. These citizens don't have time to pay their bills for everything and they have to pay for it. The Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek of the TOP 09 on Sunday on Prima on behalf of the Fialův Government said this to the government strategy on inadaptable Roma Ukrainian migrants, and I quote again: We need to find a locality for Rom people in the Czech Republic where they can lead their way of life outside Prague. We are looking for a way to enable them to live here in the Czech Republic as best as possible and not to threaten others at the same time. End of quote by the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Health for TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek. So the government recognizes that these migrants are threatening our citizens, and yet they want to leave them in our republic? And all the benefits will be paid by our citizens again? Moreover, people outside Prague voted for TOP 09 at least. Then why would Secretary Válek and Minister Rakušan want to make their lives hell for the STAN movement? Moreover, we all know that there is no war in the Zakarpatian Ukraine, where these Rom are coming from, just as there is no war on most of Ukraine's territory. Those are all the questions you need to answer and you've never answered here. Last week, there was a point in the Government Strategy on migrants from Ukraine. On Tuesday, when I asked these questions, you cowardly left the O.R. and interrupted the meeting. When it came to another day last week, I suspect that it was Friday, so you set aside such a short time, and the government MEPs made factual remarks so that opposition members would not be able to attend the debate. So another trick on the government's part. And Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, when he represented your strategy here, in which there isn't a word on the 34 pages about the impact on Czech citizens, didn't say a word about Czech citizens. Well, it's called the "Ukrainian government" for you. And I'm not surprised. You are not the Czech Government. You are only on paper the Czech government, but of course you do not defend the interests of Czech citizens. Of course I am, because I know you. Brussels and Washington come first for you. And we say for us that the SPD movement is neither pro-Russian nor pro-Chinese, nor pro-American, nor Brussels. For us, the Czech Republic comes first. And our citizens rightly ask, where will these specific locations be for the location of inadaptable Roma and Ukrainian refugees? When will the Interior Minister Rakušan finally stop hiding in what specific cities and municipalities will the large groups of up to 1,500 Romani migrants that the government of Ukraine wants to leave here in the quotation marks? Citizens from all over the Republic are terrified to write to us because they do not want to have any inadaptable migrants nearby, and they do not want any inadaptable people anywhere near them. For the SPD movement, we don't want any more inadaptable people here. I remind you that the government coalition recently rejected the SPD law 14 days ago, three weeks ago, rejected the SPD law to end the abuse of ill-adaptable doses, because Petr Fiala's government simply supports the inadaptable. And the government is even talking about integration. Prime Minister Fiala says he's counting on most migrants to stay here. That's what we all heard in the media. Well, that's a terrible strategy! I'm saying they shouldn't integrate, because we should expect them to come home. There is no war going on in most parts of Ukraine, there is a business going on, there are world politicians visiting there, and even moms and children are coming back to Ukraine on their own, as I said. In my opinion, it is also possible to provide safe accommodation for many refugees directly in Ukraine, such as under the patronage of the UN. And I'm not talking about a tent town. You can choose the whole safe cities. After all, Ukrainian mothers and children themselves are coming back. The SPD clearly states that there is a need for adequate assistance. To help yes, but adequately and only for the necessary time and only for real war refugees, not economic migrants and wealthy people in Mercedes and audi for millions. And after the end of this conflict, have them come back to build their country. But back to the emergency situation that the government of Petr Fiala has declared and wants to extend until the end of June. The state of emergency may be declared only by stating the reasons for a fixed period and for a specific territory. At the same time as the announcement of an emergency situation, the Government must define which rights laid down in a specific law and to what extent they are limited in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and which obligations and to what extent they are imposed. In other words, if there is no big problem in Zlín, Cheb or Bruntál, it is illegal for the emergency to apply there too, and, on the contrary, it is necessary for the government to define where the emergency is, where the crisis is, and declare an emergency for this particular place with a justification for why and what restrictions are necessary there. Every citizen, when he looks around, makes it clear to you that there's no need for an emergency anywhere. The incompetent Fialův government is already seeing the mess it's made for itself and its citizens, and it's obvious that it doesn't have the courage to say that they just screwed up. Either way, it must always be repeated that all responsibility for all the problems of our citizens in the Czech Republic in relation to the expensive and Ukrainian migrants and the deterioration of the availability of health care for our citizens is borne by the coalition government of Petr Fiala, the government of ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates. You have full responsibility to all citizens of our Republic. And we will remind it every day. In a real state of emergency, due to Prime Minister Fial and the government of Petr Fiala, more and more citizens of the Czech Republic are finding themselves. 16 percent of households are currently below the poverty line. Last December, before Fialův's reign, it was only 9 percent. That's enough anyway. More than 30% of households are in big financial trouble. And in your government, 40 percent of the number of new executions has increased. The emergency situation in which you will rule and spend without control will not reduce the need of our citizens, unfortunately only and only deepen it. So that's the exact setting of the imaginary mirror. While the SPD says that in an emergency... millions of Czech citizens are getting into emergency situations, and financial problems, due to the price increase, so you don't see the emergency situation of Czech citizens and Czech families at all, and you keep saying that there must be an emergency situation for Ukrainian migrants. That's just crazy. And I've been explaining this to you for six months, this government of yours, and it's like playing the wall. I don't get it. I don't understand how... I'd like to say dumb again, but I'm not gonna say it because it's dumb, it's not a decent word. I think it is. Okay, I won't use it. [[16.00 hours]] Well, let's see what Prime Minister Fiala's policy and Home Secretary Vít Rakušan's policy have caused, and, in this case, President KDU-ČSL and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka are also directly responsible, how frustrated you have caused at the Office of Labour. The workers of the Office of Labour, of course, Czech workers are saying quite openly and truthfully, and I quote: we pay more on the doses than we take at the counter. So you're giving Ukrainian migrants more money than the Labor Office workers have ever paid. It's just completely outrageous what you guys are doing here. And the clerks at the Labor Office are talking about the accumulated frustration they experience with their colleagues, and they certainly haven't disappeared at the end of the strike ER. The workers warn - and we fully stand as the SPD for the workers of the Labour Office and for all the working and decent citizens - that if the situation does not change, there will be massive redundancies. They say that today, when we have inflation like this - and the government doesn't do anything about it and doesn't want to do anything about it, it's just as likely that a lot of people will go away. But the government is simply rushing to help Ukrajinec, over and over again, and you are completely out of your league with Czech citizens. And they say here: a colleague has already resigned, she couldn't take it anymore. By the way, to illustrate the situation at the employment offices, but that is only a small pebble in the mosaic, because the situation is the same because of this government in many other places, that after almost ten years Mrs. Lenka, working at the employment office in the Ústí Region, receives a salary of about 27 000 gross per month. And that situation is now there because of your government, because of the bad strategy, because of the mistakes you make, when you have made the Czech Republic the best ATM in the world, as I have already quoted the authorities here - and notice that I have all my comments supported by quotes, because I know that you are deaf in the coalition, I hope that it is not an insult that I am always here to quote the resources, and then it is always said that Okamura here says something, I am always quoting it to you carefully, so you can't at all excuse yourself from your responsibility. So I would really like this debate to remain factual, and I hope that the Minister of the Interior will respond to these quotes from the chieftains, the staff of the labour offices, but most importantly, Minister, answer whether the level of education for our children in schools will get worse, as you can see with the availability of health care, because you already know that the number of pediatricians is not inflatable, namely, there are 2 000 circuses in the Czech Republic. Two months ago, they said, based on that condition only two months ago, their association said that everyone would have to take on average 50 extra children into the database, so it's not technically possible, is it?, to treat so many extra children when there's only one pediatrician, they're even older age, as you know, mostly. So these questions are needed, and the situation on the labour market needs to be answered as well. Because I have a number of citizens who do manual jobs, but they are also workers in the services of hairdressers, pedicures, and so on, that they are worried about being pushed out of the labour market by Ukrainian migrants and, of course, they will cut their wages, okay? The job market situation, I haven't heard a word from you about this. And please do not talk about the situation on the labour market from the point of view of Ukrainian migrants. I'm asking about the concerns of Czech citizens, okay? People ask us about those Czech citizens that when the number of children increases, of course, the number of children in schools increases enormously and the teacher is just one and they don't speak Czech, so logically parents are worried, and justified fears that the teaching will get worse, now from September of course they are worried mainly about how it will be. Well, back to the office of work. So the last few months here have been told by the labor authorities that they have to go help out with the humanitarian benefits that you've put on so inadequately. Here is a dose for an adult of 5,000 and also repeatedly gives to the Czech government, in Poland it is equivalent to 1,700, and only one time for an adult. Slovák, Maďar have it about this size too. That's why I'm saying that you're deliberately luring migrants here, and then, of course, things got out of hand because you misjudged the situation. Now, as Minister Jurečka and Minister Rakušan and Prime Minister Fiala have made this system, as they have made us the best ATM, as the authorities already confirm - and, by the way, the spokesperson for the Brno City Council confirmed it, now I don't have the name here, but I've already published it, it was in the mainstream, says that even according to the findings of the Brno City Council, that they will choose a dose, and then they will go abroad, he says. So free ATM and hoops either back to Ukraine or somewhere else, but also back to Ukraine. So it's just an incredible system. And now for those workers at the Labor Office. Maybe they come to work in the morning at 7:15 -- you know, Minister -- and they don't come home until 8:30 at night. And they don't pay overtime on workdays. And that's why the problem is, of course - and here the clerk says with the family: I'm coming, I'm going to sit down, and I'm going to sleep. Because overtime, if it's not on the weekend, they say it's not even paid off. And the last few months have been counting overtime in tens of hours per person, a month of course. This is the situation you have here. And it creates, of course, tension in society, and justified. Finally, I would like to point out here that, unfortunately, even after three months - I understand when it was at the very beginning, but no one understands that you have neglected - it has not refuted the legitimate concerns of Czech citizens about the impact of the refugee wave on social security, health and education. The legitimate concerns of our citizens. So it would be really good, because to this day the ministers of the Fialův Government have absolutely not answered these questions of the SPD movement we have from citizens, it is a choice of questions from citizens, because, as I have already said here, they write to me on average 3 to 5,000 people a day, they write to me citizens, every day, the daily average is 3 to 5,000 people, so, of course, several co-workers have to help me with this so that we can respond and respond to these citizens within our capabilities. So the cross-section is quite significant. That means - well, some people can repeat themselves, but 3 to 5,000 times 30 days, so we're moving around 100,000 or more questions and questions monthly and reactions. So that's a really big, big amount. Yes, you can call yourself a hundred times, maybe they're our voters to a large extent, but they're citizens. They are citizens and, of course, we are all equal before the Constitution, even if you do not think so, as we know. The Minister of the Interior needs to be disproved, but he's gone again in the meantime to... [[Voice off the microphone.]] Prime Minister, yes, to answer these questions. And there are two questions about the impact on the quality and availability of our health and education, on the deterioration of the labour market situation, on safety or on the sharp rise in rent prices and housing costs for our citizens. It's all the consequences of the migration wave from Ukraine, the failed system by the government. The government's approach to resolving the refugee wave is also still unsystematic, random, and simply poses many risks to our citizens. So, in conclusion, I will repeat once again that, for the reasons set out above, the SPD will vote against the extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u9	I'll read more apologies. Vice-President Jan Skopeček apologizes today from 17:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Minister Michal Šalomoun apologises from 16:30 to the end of the day for reasons of work and Mr Petr Sadovský from 16:30 to the end of the day without giving any reason. Now with the priority right registered by the President of the ANO club Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Ministers, allow me to come forward here with a brief speech or a summary of a few thoughts on the request with which the government has come forward. So the government came before us again asking for an extension of the emergency, and I have to admit, I'm a little surprised. It surprised me because when I listen to the statement made by Prime Minister Fiala or Vice Prime Minister and Minister Rakušan, but also by other members of the government, praise is basically constantly being heard. Or rather, I should say self-esteem. In these comments, it is constantly repeated that the government is handling the refugee crisis well, and in fact, it almost feels like everything is watered with the sun and painted green. So green that I got the impression that there's really no need for an emergency. [[16.10 hours]] I understand that if no one else praises the government, you have to pat yourself on those backs, but I'd still like it to be said here, because it really isn't. The government has failed in many ways and continues to fail. Some things still go right, some things we've already missed. I don't want to blame you for much of this, the situation is new, certainly complicated, and mistakes can be expected. That is why I would expect a measure of humility, which I am afraid I do not see. What I blame in the first place is chaos. We still don't know how many people we have here. We don't know where they're moving, we don't know how many people are coming back, we don't know how many people are planning to stay longer at this point, we don't even know the professional profile of these people. But these are only the basic data, and most of them should have been obtained from the first registration. Now the government wants to catch up, but of course that's going to be very difficult. That's where you really overslept. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister, or Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, if he has better information, a very basic question: How many refugees are there in the Czech Republic at this time? Long-term work was done with the number of 340 000. At the beginning of May, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Rakušan claimed that people were coming, but they were also leaving, and the situation was stable. On Sunday, this Sunday, what she was, we suddenly learned in Václav Moravec's questions that 140,000 people had already left, and at this moment we have 200,000 Ukrainian refugees. However, aside from the fact that we have not recorded any reports in the last few days of any mass abandonment of the Czech Republic, yesterday at the meeting of the Social Committee from the Ministry of the Interior, it was said that this was not the case and, on the contrary, there are 10,000 more people, i.e. 350 000. What is it, then? After all, the difference is absolutely fundamental, and it is a very basic figure in which I would expect you to have an overview. How do you want to take care of these people, how do you want to integrate them, how do you want to place them on the labour market, if you don't even know how many people it really is? We all know about another out-of-control situation. It concerns Romani refugees at the main station. Several hundred people, mostly mothers with children, lived in absolutely pitiful conditions for many days and only after we began to warn the media about the problem and Mayor Hřib, actually the pirate mayor Hřib, began to give ultimatums to the government through the media, so at least something began to happen. Rather, it exposed the whole problem, and another problem, namely that the government can't relocate these people within the Republic. There is no motivation for both these people and to this day intensive communication with the regions on this issue. And that brings me to the next problem and maybe the key to why a mistake is behind a mistake, and that is the constant absence of any plan to deal with specific situations. There's no strategy. The House adopted a resolution last time the emergency situation was prolonged that the Vice Prime Minister and Minister Rakušan must present the strategy. But instead of a strategy, he presented only some sort of way out. After our pressure, he introduced another document last week, but it can't be called a strategy, even with both eyes squinting. Our call for strategy is not just a useless act of government - I'm sorry, I have to say this because that is exactly what the government is doing. We want the government to be prepared for these situations, to know how it will proceed. If part of the refugees need to be relocuted to know how to deal with this problem, and if there is a problem with a shortage of places in schools and kindergartens, a problem with pediatricians, and how to deal with it. How to solve the problem of congestion in Prague so that the coalition mayor does not have to give the government ultimatums and so on. In order not to be negative, however, someone deserves a great thank you for managing the refugee crisis. They are people, our citizens, who have helped and helped as they can. Once again, how solidarity and helpful we can be, as the situation really requires, we can help unselfishly. I've said it a few times, but I'd be happy to do it again. People have a lot of thanks. And the second positive is that this time the government's request to extend the emergency to 30 days. Not that it's good news in itself, but it's a certain shift. A shift in the fact that you are no longer coming up with a proposal that, according to most important constitutional lawyers, is unconstitutional. It did not bother you, because, as we learned from President Markéta Adamová Pekarová, why to have such an exhausting and unnecessary debate on the ground of this honourable Chamber of Deputies, which together with her further statement that the opposition should sit in the corner and shuffle its feet, tells of your idea of parliamentary democracy. In any event, the extension of the emergency by 58 days was incomprehensiblely long, and as you know, we have offered you support for the extension by 30 days. But if you are saying now that this is the last request, because by the end of June, you will prepare such legislative measures so that there is no longer a need for an emergency, then logically I must ask: What have you done so far? Why haven't you made such a change? I am particularly asking because I am certainly not the only one who remembers your comments - Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister Rakušan - that the emergency situation is the admission of government failure. I also remember the electoral posters of the coalition SPOLU, on which it said: no more day of emergency! So do you know how many of these days are gonna be? If your request goes through, there'll be 119 of them. But I don't blame you. I could accuse you of hypocrisy here, but I'm sure people can see it for themselves, and I'm sure they'll evaluate it. All I can tell you is that you haven't prepared these legislative amendments from the very beginning when the emergency was a dirty word to you. Of course, I'm talking to the captains, our captains, and I know the reasons why they need the emergency. And I have to say, if someone is doing a really good job in this crisis, they are the regions and the captains. This is also the main reason why we, as a club of the ANO movement, will most likely support the extension of the emergency situation, although most likely, we will still consult when we hear all the arguments and answers to our questions, probably not within the time limit you ask. Not because the government has convinced us of this need, certainly not yet, but we have been convinced by the captains and competent people who are actually in charge of the crisis. Our club, although we are in opposition, will not behave in the same way as your parties did at the time when you were in opposition and the captains as well called for an extension of the emergency situation during the covid. We're not really going to politicize and gamble with people's fates. I'm sorry, but I have to remind you. Covid was on top back then, hospital capacity was on the border, somewhere even beyond the border, and patients had to be transported. We asked you to extend the emergency. The Minister has dealt with you, explained the situation, presented the data. You and your captains have been asked, but you have decided not to prolong the emergency situation. We're not getting any data right now, nobody's even been dealing with us. Nevertheless, we refuse to politicise on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u11	Another is registered with priority rights, because today he represents the apologized President of the Fiala, Vice-President of the SPD Radek Rozvoral. And let me just remind you that there are two other priority rights - Vice-President Havlíček and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and then the other entries follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, allow me briefly to address this point at today's extraordinary House meeting, which has been convened because of the Government's request for approval to extend the emergency period. The government of Petr Fiala therefore presents another proposal to extend the emergency situation, which allegedly was based on the request of the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, so that she could better cope with the consequences of the influx of Ukrainian refugees into the Czech Republic. The Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan himself defended the prolongation of the emergency situation due to the migration crisis on 15 May this year in Sunday's Questions by Václav Moravec on Czech Television and assured the present that this was the last extension of the emergency situation in this context. At the same time, the current emergency situation should end at the last May and this new government proposal calls for an extension until the end of June 2022. However, the SPD MEPs do not believe these promises, and I can say here that the SPD will in no way support this proposal to extend the emergency period and we will vote against its extension. According to the SPD, it is necessary no longer to burden our citizens with emergency measures that can prevent them from fully exercising their rights and freedoms under the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which are part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Here I will just remind you that such a long period of time restricting citizens in their rights has no equivalent in any of Europe's states. Slowly, the emergency situation is becoming a common situation in the Czech Republic, which must be over. Now I will allow myself a small probe into recent history and recall the declared emergency situation in the Czech Republic during the pandemic of Coronavirus, which was declared by the government of Andrej Babiš. For the first time, the emergency situation in connection with covid-19 was announced on 12 March 2020. The government has declared a ban on private and public events, a ban on entry into sports and cultural facilities, reduced the operation of restaurants and certain shops or temporarily closed national borders. This emergency lasted for 66 days, namely until 17 May 2020. For the second time, the emergency has been declared by the last government since 5 October 2020. Since autumn, a number of measures, such as closure of all types of schools, prohibition of mass events, restrictions on movement and contact with people, closure of most stores and services, have been accompanied by a renewed declaration of emergency. The House first agreed to extend until 20 November, then until 12 December, until 23 December, until 22 January and until 14 February 2021. He was immediately followed by an emergency at the request of the chieftains as of 15 February and a similar situation was repeated once more. The state of emergency has thus definitely ended on 11 April 2021. For the third time, the government of Andrej Babiš declared an emergency on 25 November 2021 and ended on 25 December of the same year. I will now recall the emergency state declared by the government of Petr Fiala. His announcement for 30 days due to the migration crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine was decided by the Purple Government at the meeting on Wednesday, March 2, 2022. He started to pay on March 4th and was due to end on April 2nd. Subsequently, on 29 March 2022, the emergency status declared in connection with the refugee wave from Ukraine was extended by two months after the Russian invasion and will last until the end of May. After nearly nine hours, the House approved this extension by the votes of Members of five coalition parties. Once again, the Chamber of Deputies must decide on its possible extension, and therefore the ruling five-wheelers have called this extraordinary meeting. The Government justifies its argument by consulting the reasons for extending the emergency situation within the strategic group, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior's legislative department, prepared a proposal for the main reasons for further extension of the emergency situation. They further developed into four points: 1. Current numbers of refugees. 2. Operation of accommodation capacities and reimbursement of costs. 3. ensuring the activities of the public authorities. And the 4th legislative measure linked to the emergency situation, where we see the biggest shortcomings and where we blame the long inaction in the preparation of the necessary laws, which had to be prepared during the coronavirus pandemic. It is now supplemented with the preparation and processing of amendments to the laws adopted in connection with the solution of the refugee wave, the so-called Lex laws of Ukraine. This is immediately linked to ensuring the functionality and coherence of the IT systems of the state administration, which address information and measures in the refugee wave. To that end, I would like to quote from the relevant constitutional law that the emergency situation is a state emergency measure declared in the event of serious natural, ecological or industrial disasters, accidents or other hazards which, to a large extent, endanger lives, health or property values or internal order and security. Its announcement is governed by Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic. The state of emergency shall be declared by the Government, in the event of a danger of delay by the Prime Minister, and the Government shall approve or revoke its decision within 24 hours of the announcement. The Government must immediately inform the Chamber of Deputies, which may cancel the declaration, of the announcement of an emergency. The state of emergency may be declared for a maximum period of 30 days and the period may be extended only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. The current emergency situation is justified by Prime Minister Fiala's ability to make aid more effective to Ukrainian refugees and those who are taking immediate care of them and to ensure adequate accommodation. According to the Prime Minister, this extension of the emergency situation will not affect Czech citizens. To that end, I would like to know the answers to the questions that arise from this, such as whether the measures taken will make our seniors and disabled people worse health care, what we are supposed to think under the adoption of the measures of residence of foreigners, and that this will not affect our citizens. For example, in the event of a declared emergency situation, hoteliers and persons providing accommodation services can be ordered to provide their accommodation capacity for refugees and thus order them to provide accommodation for Romani people with Hungarian and Ukrainian citizenship in their accommodation facilities. These move together with their numerous families to the Czech Republic, because they quickly found a way to exploit our generous social system for their benefit. In this context, we would like to appeal to the Government to prevent these practices and to take consistent and rapid measures to avoid such situations. It is a mockery to all our decent and working citizens, for whom our government has not done much to date. Purchases without tenders may also be carried out at the time of the declared emergency situation. And just in case, in order to prevent such practices, as they may be abused, the SPD refuses emergency status. The government and the management of accommodation in their accommodation facilities can negotiate with hoteliers, pension owners or holiday centres and not order them to do so. This is part of the policy's work of offering acceptable compromises leading to solving specific problems. In the first place, everyone should have the interests of our citizens and the prosperity of the Czech Republic. Accommodation can be dealt with by those offering these services, for example by agreement and increased costs to the regions can be done, for example, by changes in the parameters of the law within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. Moreover, the current government has already had three months to address the issue of accommodation capacity for migrants and to adopt the relevant legislation. [[16.30 hours]] The government should take steps to ensure that all measures relating to the migration wave can be effectively dealt with through existing crisis legislation by far more moderate measures than the emergency situation, for example by declaring a state of danger. This is the lowest of the crisis situations that the authorities of the Czech Republic can declare in response to an emergency such as the current migration crisis, and it cannot be avoided as a threat to the normal activities of administrative authorities, regional authorities and municipalities, components of an integrated rescue system or critical infrastructure entities. The state of danger is governed by a crisis law, which, however, deserves a more precise interpretation of the terms so that all activities mentioned here have legal anchoring and their interpretation cannot be viewed from more points of view. Crisis law regulates the state of danger as one of the three crisis situations. The legislation on crisis situations can be considered to be somewhat fragmented when the emergency and state of danger is regulated in the constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic and the legislation on the state of danger is the only one contained in the crisis law. Ladies and gentlemen, on this extension of the emergency situation, I would like to say that there is also a conflicting comment from the constitutional judges who have already expressed their views on the emergency situation in the past. It is now worth mentioning the situation in the context of the previous extension of the emergency situation. The plan to prolong the emergency by the end of May raised concerns, in particular, by constitutional lawyers, according to which the government's request might not be in accordance with the law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this legislative step of the government, consisting of declaring an emergency situation repeatedly, must be properly supported by factual arguments in order to comply with legal support. It is also worth mentioning the lawyer's statements on the issue of so-called emergencies, where I will mention the main shortcomings of the Constitutional Security Act, which have so far been discussed in expert discussion, whether it was case-law or knowledge of teaching. Given the considerable number and importance of these shortcomings, it is evident at first glance that the Constitutional Security Act is far from the ideal constitutional regulation for the regulation of extraordinary governance in the Czech Republic. The Constitutional Law on Security has not directly and unambiguously stated in what legal form individual exceptional situations are declared and what legal form subsequent acts of extraordinary governance are undertaken within their framework. The problem of the parties to the form of extraordinary governance in our country is then inseparably linked to the question of judicial review of extraordinary governance, the relationship of emergency situations and measures to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. In fact, he did not say a word about the competence of the General Justice and the Constitutional Court in relation to extraordinary conditions and measures, which resulted in a judicial contradiction and legal uncertainty. I will now mention the most important shortcomings contained in the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. Firstly, it is the absence of an explicit indication of the principle of extraordinary governance. Secondly, the failure to provide for the legal form of the declaration of emergency and the form of the emergency measures. Thirdly, it is not a clarification of the question of judicial review. Fourth, the lack of clarity of the relationship of the Constitutional Security Act to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, particularly in relation to the restriction of citizens' rights and freedoms. And fifthly, referring to the principle of civil control only to legal regulation. This is merely to remind the Government that it has established a post of Minister for Legislation, which should preferably address the two very important laws that I have mentioned and their consistency with other legislation. For the sake of completeness, I will reminisce about these laws. It's Constitutional Law No. 110/1998 Coll., Act on Security of the Czech Republic, and Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws. In the SPD, we also take the view that the current government has not submitted a high-quality government strategy for managing the migration crisis containing steps to resolve this problem, with the impact on Czech citizens being as low as possible. We demand that the government ensure that the quality of health care and its availability do not deteriorate for our citizens. We also require the government to guarantee that the quality of teaching in all types of schools will not deteriorate. For a long time, we also call on the government to finally start addressing the rising prices of all important commodities and the prices of basic foods. So far, the government's helplessness is manifesting itself to help our citizens. The government's approach to solving the refugee wave from Ukraine remains unsystematic and random and causes many risks to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Finally, let me just remind you that we live in the Czech Republic and the well-being of our citizens should be a priority for all the politicians represented here in the Chamber of Deputies, which is not to say that we should not help war refugees from Ukraine. The SPD movement clearly states that aid to Ukrainian war refugees must be proportionate, only for the necessary time and must not take place at the expense of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The form of aid must not jeopardise social reconciliation in our country, must not cause social tension and must not jeopardise and restrict the access of Czech citizens to public health services or education and the reduction of the provision of delayed health performances for so long. The extension of the emergency period, as proposed by the current government, will not support the SPD, as we reject its possible abuse, and we will therefore vote against the extension of the emergency period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm taking over the meeting and we'll continue the negotiations. Then Vice-President Karel Havlíček will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u14	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, the emergency is the admission of a government failure. You may recall, about a year ago, one of the leaders of the opposition said it, today Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Not another day with an emergency, that was the SPOLU group's password. You will remember the spring of 2021, when the critical situation was throughout Europe, within the covid, of course, when the hospitals were full and when we asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation, and it was not done. If it wasn't for the captains who were very responsible, there would have been a really critical situation. A year has come together, we have another crisis, and there is an opposition with the government that changed its mind. I understand, it's about responsibility, it's about trying to make sure that the crisis is handled as best as possible, as we have tried. What I miss about it. I miss a certain amount of humility. Yes, he can come in with a hundred eights, you can overrule everything, it'll finally turn out that way. But it can be dealt with even if it comes to apologizing to today's coalition, then opposition, for its approach, which was one year ago, that it will factually justify why the emergency situation is being implemented again, why it will continue, whether it is due to the regions, due to gas reservoirs, and that it will be given for the shortest possible period of 30 days and then it will always be extended. That last one hasn't worked out, it's been pushed through a lot longer, now it's true it's 30 days. Instead of apologizing, however, the whole state is being played down, making it seem that there is a difference between the emergency state of the covid and the emergency state of the Ukrainian, although there is no difference between that. It's still the same emergency. The truth is that different instruments can be used in this emergency mode to various degrees, but it is still the same emergency situation. Yes, one of the reasons is filling the gas into the reservoirs. I want to be objective here. I'm sure I don't agree with the Minister of Industry on how the gas was refueled especially in March, but I don't want to bring in any more political skirmishes right now. And I have to admit that at the moment the gas is being added quite politely to the reservoirs, and especially if we want to continue to refuel today, we want to order NET4GAS to write out the auctions, so we can't do it without an emergency. It's just reality. That means at the moment, if we want the magazines to continue to fill, then we need an emergency. If I put everything on the scales, however much I don't like access, however much I can shoot into the coalition, then eventually a certain amount of responsibility will prevail and, simply speaking, close my eyes, I will plug my ears and raise my hand to ensure that the emergency situation is finally approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u16	Madam Vice-President, Ministers, fellow Members, I, too, would like to speak and comment on today's House press, which we have here at the moment, with a view to extending the emergency situation again for another 30 days. I'm sure we remember that when there was a House where 58 days were presented, we were told here that it would most likely not happen again. Of course, the extension of the emergency situation, or even the fact that we have an emergency here, is linked to the state of war in Ukraine, but I must say that what is currently happening in the Czech Republic regarding the reception of refugees from Ukraine is one big mess and chaos. I have said it several times that the first wave we've handled and, above all, the citizens have managed with their help both humanitarian, financial, mayors, captains, firemen, police officers, doctors and paramedics, so it's managed. But now there's the other wave, and that's the wave of adaptation and integration. So I have to say there are a lot of things, and it all comes down to one thing, which is that we were first promised that we would have a migration plan here by the end of March, then by April 14th, and we still don't have that plan here. I was very surprised when the Home Secretary performed on Czech Television on Sunday and said that we no longer have 340 000 refugees, but that we have 200,000. I was surprised that the editor didn't ask if the Home Secretary could prove it in any way. Because if you ask any mayor today, the governor, he won't tell you - and he doesn't know because unfortunately the systems aren't working, they're not connected - how many refugees he has on his territory. I'm so glad that after some time with the Home Secretary, when I have to say that he's frowning at me, that I still want the plan, he admitted that there is no record. The truth is, I'm sure he's making an effort. Now he's come up with the other system that's gonna be above all these systems. But he meets regularly with the chieftains, and every week he says, yes, there will be a link to the HUMPO and there will be a link to the information system of the foreign police. But it's still not. Those weeks are running away, and we're really not going anywhere without that evidence. That's a key figure, according to which the mayors and captains have to plan other things that are linked to education. They need to know how much capacity they need in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools. So where I see a huge gap is in the health sector. Because I don't think that's what I think is paying attention to that. I have to say this from my experience because we had a regional council on Monday, where we had information about the refugee crisis as one of the points. I was very surprised, therefore, that if we wanted data from the management of the region on the capacity of education and health care, and we also gave a resolution on this, this resolution was not supported, it was not adopted. When we also wanted representatives to deal with the situation - that is, because every region has established committees like us in the House, that is, the Education Committee - that was not supported either. I think that these are one of the key things that regional representatives should be dealing with at the moment. They should get together and deal with it. So I was very surprised by this approach, and I was very surprised that regional representatives "do not qualify" in the Karlovy Vary Region for information on how much capacity is available, and so if it could be modelled on the numbers we know about at the moment. I was also surprised by the number in the Karlovy Vary Region that there are approximately 11,000 registered with us, and according to what we learned there are 4,500 children. I'm quite surprised at the number of people who speak in terms of women and children, but they can break up because we don't have proper numbers all the time. At the same time, the Home Secretary said that there is a pilot project going on in some cities about what we are also pointing out, and that is that by not being the proper record, we practically don't know where these people are. At the same time, there may be abuse of the aid, the 5,000-dollar dose. Here I must say, Minister, I have received the output from one of the statutory cities, and I must say - you are talking about 70 percent of these people being found at that address. So if I took it, 427 people were caught, but then 117 weren't caught, but it was said that they were staying at the address or travelling to Ukraine for a short time, when they could be expected to return. That's what we're talking about, the so-called social tourism can happen, and the payment of the benefit. I have registered that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is currently also taking action, especially in such a way that these people will eventually have to attend the employment office. But I am still convinced that all these measures should have come much earlier, that it's all too late. That if we had taken the measures we told you earlier, or my colleagues on the Security Committee, when they said in March: Minister, it would have been good for people to come and have that stamp on their passport. We already told you in March on the Security Committee. At the same time, my colleagues said it would be good for people to be photographed. Or that, from this point of view... I know it wasn't easy at the beginning, but I think now that time is so long that some of these measures could have been set up a long time ago. It can also be seen that when a stranger wasn't caught at all, it was impossible to verify whether he was at the address, so it is really obvious that the figures are very different, that these people are not at the addresses. I, for example, saw a story on TV yesterday about hiring those individuals, and I was very surprised how the person who rented it said how easy it was to fill out the form to get the funds for the accommodation. That he had to give a number about the person, but that he could even check the box, that if he didn't know, then the money was still paid to him. Now, if I were to evaluate this in terms of increasing energy prices, what people have to do about filling out so many forms, I believe that what we keep saying is that we have two crises here. We have a refugee crisis here, which we therefore believe is not well managed. But then we have this economic crisis that you are not dealing with at all. I think that increasing energy prices, fuel prices, food, that we have both crises here, and both crises must be resolved at once. [[16.50 hours]] I'm sure the fact that we don't have a plan is very bad, and there's no way we can do without it. I have to say that I am very much monitoring the media output when you said that it is extremely necessary for the emergency situation to be extended, especially with regard to accommodation, and that it is also linked to the rapid payment of money to the regions. I'd like to ask you how much money you've given the regions until now. I'll answer that. Zero. So in 80 days, the county didn't receive a crown. You're here right today, and for that I would like to thank you, said that almost no resort spent any funds, only the Ministry of the Interior's resort about 82 million. You know, Minister, they've spent the funds on cities, municipalities and regions, and they've already spent millions of dollars on them. But they didn't receive a crown from the state. You told the regions that they would receive 10 million, which are in the budget of these crisis proceedings, but the regions did not receive even this amount, which in no way will cover their costs for the regions, but they have to pay legal persons, that is, to cities, municipalities, guesthouses, hotels, with those they conclude contracts and they have to pay them back. So I'm very surprised that that's why we're extending the emergency. Then I was very surprised that another reason for extending the emergency situation was to connect the systems. And I'm asking why they're not connected after so many days. So we didn't make it in 80 to 90 days, and now we're gonna make it in 30 days? Can I believe it's gonna work out if it hasn't done it yet? The date's still moving. Yesterday I learned that there will be some data again until June 1st. So I don't know, I just keep saying how many people there are, how many people there are, what their education is, what their professions are, whether they want to stay here or not, I understand that they can't answer it completely, but it is necessary that we have a document that will model the situation of both the arrival of refugees and who will eventually remain here, who will be tied to the areas of education, employment and health. And now the biggest problem here is with the situation that is in Prague at Main Station, where - I keep pointing out that even on 14 April you have not presented any plan, but some document, which is in no way any strategy and plan, so there was one thing that the Administration of Material Reserves will buy 17 modular units for 150 people, but I still don't know where the modular units are and why there were military tents in Troy and why there could not be modular units. Then I see you're the father of the children, and I'm also the mother of the children, and you say, I can't watch those kids sleep at that station. But they're still sleeping there, every day, and yesterday, that number went over 600, and no one's gonna figure it out. It gets worse every day. Yesterday, Mayor Hřib announced that on 31 May, the non-profit organization that assists at the Central Station would cease its activities. So what's going to happen on May 31st? So where will these people be on June 1st? And my question is that you said here today that we don't want to approve and extend the emergency and that when the Lex Ukraine is approved, there will be no need for an emergency. And why didn't you bring up the Lex Ukraine before today's approval to prolong the emergency situation? After all, we approved Lex Ukraine on March 11th. I think that until then, we could have responded to some of these things, and it could have been preceded by the amendment and all the things that were discovered, much sooner than the emergency situation here would have been extended. Let's face it, these things that are in an emergency today, they're practically moving to Lex Ukraine. The truth is, I got the House document today because you submitted it today, so I'm sure I'll study it and we'll definitely have a debate with it. But I was surprised to hear that we didn't want an emergency, but I think you could have come up with the Lex Ukraine before the emergency, which is May 31st. So I really see that these things aren't done well, and the way I see it is that the extension of the emergency situation, although I perceive that the mayors and the captains need it, is mainly because we don't have the plan. I am simply convinced that if we had the plan, if we had responded to these things more quickly, we could have reflected them in the amendment to the law, the so-called Lex Ukraine, and in no way needed to prolong the emergency situation. I, Minister, certainly know that you will respond, and, if so, according to your response, I will also take the liberty of reacting. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Minister Rakušan will speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I've fulfilled my promise not to react after every performance, and I'll always try to sum it up. We have a series of end-of-the-line priority rights here. You also have listeners within the Czech Republic, because not only Tomio Okamur's people are writing, so now someone has sent me Andrej Babiš, standing there in front of such banners "not even the cottage of refugees." Well, I just remember that the rhetoric of your care for who needs help is changing significantly over time. However, Madam Vice-President, through another Vice-President, I would just like to ask you not to use it here in this debate, otherwise it will get back into some emotions, words like "the Minister has admitted." I understand that you're the shadow secretary of the interior, and the police jargon is sneaking in, but let's try to have some real fun. I don't know what I've confessed, I've never admitted anything, I've said something, I've ever said something, and let's just walk out of it, but that kind of convicting and dragging, I don't think that's the way to have a debate. I think it'd be good to reschedule the evidence in a week, re-establish it, that's a little bit of information about how these things are going. I understand there's been a long-term complaint from the chieftains that the systems aren't connected. Since 13. 5. the HUMPO system is connected to the CIS system, or to the Humpo system, the data from the CIS system has been poured, which would not be possible without emergency, because these are data from the foreign police, but we can use them in the emergency state and crisis management. You can sign now, since 13. 5. systems are connected. [[17,00 hours]] And if you're asking what else we want to connect, that it should have been connected by now, well, there's more of those systems. There is a need for an MPSV supply system, which can pour more information into it, information from the OSPOD can appear there, so that we have an accurate idea of what kind of child is in need here in the Czech Republic. That it's a baby without supervision or anything. That's the temporary refinement of the data you're talking about. But as I'm saying, the information wasn't right, but I get it, here's the information advantage that I'm trying to manage the crisis every day, not just once a week, but that the crisis crews are just sitting down, I'm part of a strategic group, and I'm sure I have an information lead, which is part of my job, and I certainly don't blame you. Situation - the stamp in the passport could have been in March. 17,500 people came to the Prague KACPU in March. On that climactic day. And we were even helping people before the war that we even took them across the border and checked them on the train. They came to the station, they were all identified. We were helping people who were fleeing the election - not before the election, we'll all be fleeing the war. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] And they were people who were at that point in their lives. Their lives were at stake. And you wanted to stop them at that moment on the Ukrainian-Slovak border and stamp them on their passport? Through the Vice-President. We checked them with our police officers, which we sent to Slovakia, there were 85 of them, right on that train. If they arrived at the Prague KACPU or any other KACPU in the Republic, they went through a classic check and at the moment they did not provide the identification document or was defective, they went through the illustration to the foreign police. Of course, photography took place, biometric data was introduced and their control in the Ukrainian system. I mean, we had the awareness that people came here. And I can't disclose classified information. I can only say very generally that no person has been detected in our territory, which would pose a strategic and security risk to the Czech Republic. On the contrary, several of these have been detected in neighbouring countries. With us in the Czech Republic through the activity of all folders yes. On the other hand, we were the country that identified those people from the first minute. If you're blaming us for not knowing where these people live, and I've acknowledged that, I'm sure you're right about that. These people have reported their stay, many of them have failed to fulfil their information duty, have not logged in, left, changed their place of residence, and we must respond accordingly. You mentioned, I don't know, I don't remember the numbers exactly, I didn't notice, I'm sorry, there were 450 people sitting, over a hundred didn't fit, which means they didn't check the place. Okay, but that's still a relatively decent number based on CIS data in two places, Havířov, Vimperk, corresponding to 75 or 77 percent of the consensus and tracked people. And the other local investigations, following the issue of the next benefit, will be examined as well as the Czech people who are staying, we will ask when choosing the accommodation allowance to prove that the accommodation of people from Ukraine is still ongoing. We'll definitely get to some percentage, like 85, 90. We'll never have 100% awareness, because these people are moving. And if you're referring here to the fact that the Ukrajinec still won't answer you, what are they going to do? Well, they won't! They're hoping the war will end! You keep forgetting that! They're here because there's a war. And their answer now in the middle of May is: If the war ends, in September, we will be home with the children. If the war doesn't end, we'll be here in September. And, of course, we're preparing the models. I don't know if you saw the dashboard demonstration, just say, let's do it. The presentation we gave you is. That's where the data is being released and there are precise overlays showing where there is free health care, where there is free education, where there are free accommodation capacities, even though of course those in the Czech Republic are exhausted. And don't blame me for guessing! I've reported 100 to 140,000 people that they don't have to be here. FRONTEX figures match that, but we're not a border country, we're in the middle of Schengen. We don't cross the border like Polák. We don't cross the border like the Slovák, who see how many people are coming back to them. We have some estimates based on a European standard. We have some estimates from mobile network operators, but, of course, they're estimates that we're working with, and now we're specifying them. We have a pilot project and a deal with the captains I communicate with every week. There's no communication here. Every week. Now, at our meeting on Tuesday, there were three ministers, colleague Kupka, colleague Jurečka and I, who dealt with the captains for two hours of all kinds of things that bothered them. There's no communication here. On the contrary, it is very specific and very correct, I must say. The debate across the political spectrum with the captains is very correct and factual, which, unfortunately, sometimes ours lacks. Well, this information is being specified. And why was I talking about early June? Well, that's because it's a term agreed with the captains. So I just assume that I'm gonna make a promise to somebody on a certain level, and I'm gonna make it happen. And the captains say they want a date on June 1st to be able to adapt the education system. I told them: yes, we will do our utmost to meet the date of June 1. Why did I mention one more time? June? Because a pan-European temporary protection registration system is to be launched, which will help our police, too, to detect people who come to the Czech Republic only with the reason to consume a dose here, and will try to consume it in another country of the European Union. By the way, this call for the creation of this system is proven to come from the workshop of the Czech Republic. We have presented this and we have proposed a model of how the system should work within the European Union. So even here on the international field, we're trying. I find it extremely unfair to make one of your remarks, through the Vice-President. I find it awfully unfair to note that filling out that paper by that batch is simple and so on. Well, what's it supposed to be like? We gave it to people who run away from the war, do not know the foreign language, do not know the official procedures in the Czech Republic. And what else were we supposed to create for them than a super-simple form to give them the benefit that those moms and kids are gonna live on here that you, through Madam President, are so interested in, so that they can quickly get to the funds that they're gonna buy food for these kids? And it worked. Madam Vice-President, I have a Ukrainian family at home. I'm not bragging about it, I think it's natural. And I know how it helped them get the shot fast. They got her so fast, they could get some food for it. And yes, if this was the motive to come to the Czech Republic, it is our excellent business card among other countries that we were able to help people fleeing the war quickly and effectively. And I think we should be proud of that in the Czech Republic. But both President Schillerová and Vice-President Vildumetzová: I'm not really saying it's flawless. Nowhere. And I'm not saying we didn't. I'm not saying we couldn't have done anything better. I'm not even saying that the debate with you on different platforms didn't bring me to some progress and some improvement in my condition. But that's the way it should be. That's why we're doing this. Or are we doing this for political exhibition? Or are we trying to come up with a solution that will move us? Thank God for that if there's a good idea on any platform. I'm sure I thank you for that, and we've had enough of them, and we're moving things along together. And now I always see the description of the description at Main Station. That's a good one, that's a good one. Anyone can describe the situation. Many can say that this is a humanitarian disaster, too, but I have never heard from the opposition on this matter a substantive solution. I look forward to the next Vice-President's speech, because I'm sure he'll come up with a material solution. I'll tell you what kind of solutions we're doing. And what do we do? And if you're experienced politicians, then you know that some of the procedures will start to work in the long run and they won't start working right away. And the effect will manifest itself. Firstly, all the components in the Czech Republic were instructed to operate abroad to avoid organized crime. That's what we're working on. That's what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna do. That's what If these people aren't the victims of some scam coming to the Czech Republic. That's one option we're doing. I talked to the Hungarian Home Secretary about making these illustrations work faster. Today, police President Vondrášek informed that there was an agreement, they cleared the exact fast line, the data sent from the Czech Republic to Hungary, what is Maďar limit to the illustration, and the illustrations will accelerate. That means we'll be aware of the people that are on the hlavák, much faster. And that way, we'll be able to take the next steps. [[17.10 hours]] Another matter that was done internationally in this matter was a conversation with the Ukrainian Interior Minister, who, even in the bad situation, when the Ukrainian police lost 1,500 cars and engaged in other activities, promised that their criminal police would also map the situation in Zakarpatí very carefully. These are steps that can be taken at this point. Next thing. There are three groups of people at that station. And I haven't heard that from you either. It's not a single meat. There aren't 1,500 Maďar at that station who aren't allowed to stay here. One group is the people who received temporary protection in the Czech Republic and returned to the railway station. They returned to the community because accommodation in smaller groups did not suit them. That's one group. Those people, if they refuse accommodation in the Czech Republic, refuse assigned accommodation, then they will cease to be entitled to protection. This results from the temporary protection institute. The second group are people who are going into the process of double citizenship. And that doesn't have to be just Rom at all. There are people who can be predicted not to speak Ukrainian, speak Hungarian, and get into the control regime. We're trying to send them to a town in Troja, where they're waiting to finish the process of this illustration with Hungary. And the third group is the most problematic. These are people who have a Hungarian passport, these are people who have no right to financial support in the Czech Republic, they are not entitled to accommodation because they have a passport from other Member States of the European Union. For these people, we print a leaflet, where in Hungarian we give them information about what social benefits they can receive in Hungary as citizens, and we clearly inform them that they will not receive a crown in the Czech Republic. For these people the Ministry of Transport organizes or organizes special trains and we will offer them departure to Hungary. If he doesn't answer, that is, of course, a question for discussion. But at the same time I reject the sentence that after 31. 5. there will be a humanitarian disaster near and near the railway station. It won't. We will continue to have a front desk where representatives of the asylum and migration policy department will be there, police officers will be there, firemen will be there, representatives of the Roma non-profit sector will be there, and these people will provide the very primary information, where to go and which way to go. They begin at the Main Railway Station, perhaps even Prague's MPs will confirm that there are patrols in which a police officer in the civilian sector, a representative of the Romani nonprofit sector, is doing field work and it is already running at the Main Station at this moment. Until 31. 5. in cooperation with the non-profit Romani sector, yesterday I had a meeting with the Romani non-profit sector, about five organizations, while there was a representative of the Ombudsman and we agreed that Romani nonprofit organizations were able to provide them with 250 crowns to be paid by the State to other hosts at their own expense by humanitarian type accommodation for these arrivals. Thus, as many as possible try to get back to where they belong according to their nationality, that is, Hungary. Another thing - to provide them with a humanitarian type accommodation that works here. Lex Ukraine. Lex Ukraine will be amended many more times. That we haven't done it yet? That's the law that comes out of that strategic document as something that responds to the current need. Lex Ukraine will certainly be amended during June by other matters that will allow us not to have an emergency here. I mean, we're reacting during the process of how things are going around here. As for the regions, according to the Minister of Finance Stanjury, it is not true that no region received anything. But these costs have currently accounted for four or five regions in the form required by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, every county gets the money. And those regions know it from the beginning. They've known since the first meeting Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura was present at. And I don't understand how there's any doubt here. Yes, it's some administrative effort, something has to be documented, and according to the Minister, four or five counties have done so far. So, just when the others do, of course, the money will be paid. But for God's sake, no one here is questioning the fact that the captains across the political spectrum have done absolutely a great job and we couldn't have done it without them. And that's exactly what we need for them, the emergency situation we're asking you to do today. I'll check with my colleague Schillerová, but I think I said the basics here because they were largely identical. Perhaps one more comment - communication of the region versus relocation. But that's after the deal with the chieftains, that's after the deal with Mr. Mayor Hřib, with all of them. We said until 31. 5. - and this is also within the strategic document and the documentation you have, the deadline - we will present the relocation mechanisms. So you guys are still blaming us for not doing something, and we don't have a strategy, and we're following the strategy, including the set dates. It's just kind of funny. And to blame us for not introducing the relocation mechanisms... I'm discussing this with the authorities. And we're gonna have a business meeting, I think it's gonna be online tomorrow or Monday, and now I don't know, on Tuesdays, regular meetings with the generals, we're gonna have to verify the performances, we're gonna compare all sorts of motivational factors, financial, positive about education, health care, and until 31. 5. We want it done. That's what we promised the captains at our meeting. This is attacking some kind of procedure that's actually a little off-limits, because the captains need it, and they said so themselves, in order to adapt their health, school systems, they need to have it done in June, we will deliver it to them during June. Just like we don't blame things for remorse alone, but let's blame ourselves for something that doesn't really work. Of course, I'm ready to react afterwards and beyond, but now I'm going to give the others a moment of opportunity and I'm going to react in summary again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Minister. And now Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I would only allow myself to respond briefly to the Minister of the Interior. I'm sure he listened very carefully to me for responding to some things. I must say, I didn't quite like it when he said he confessed... I appreciate that, Minister, that after the debates we had together, and I listened several times, that everything is covered in the sun, and that it is not true that the record is, so that then we really came to the point that it is not, and that we really don't know where those people are, and we only know the registered ones who register. But if we ask -- and I'm sure you have a way to do it, too, and you know that those mayors just don't know how many refugees they have in their territory. With regard to the link between the HUMPO system and the CIS within the foreign information system, yes, testing is under way at the moment. But I'm just convinced that today, when we're already 80 days from the start of the war, that it might have been connected. And I have to say, I never said you weren't communicating with the captains. I know you're actually seeing them on a regular basis. But the truth is, the captains always challenge you to a task, and a week goes by, a week goes by, a month goes by, and the task still isn't done. And one of those things, and the key thing, for example, is the records, it's the interconnection of the systems. At the same time, I think the captains also asked you to address the exact five thousand-dollar dose, if it could not be united within the EU states, because in some of these states, such as Poland and Hungary, the levy is much lower, about 80 euros, and that practically this can also cause the arrival of some people who may not have to flee before the war, and that they are practically coming here to get the five thousand-dollar dose. [[17.20 hours]] It bothers me a little, too, because I think I'm definitely a person in some kind of social feeling where every time I say something in some way, you say, these people were fleeing the war. I agree with you, Minister, of course, and I know that it was certainly not easy at the beginning. But I'm so worried that even now these people don't have the stamp that you still haven't negotiated with the Ukrainian Home Secretary. Since I've had the opportunity to register in the media, you haven't had a meeting yet. I understand it's not easy. [[The Minister is responding off the microphone.]] You've already had it. But last week, it was said to be moving on to this week. But I believe that if the measure had come sooner, it was not in February and March that it was about the Prague railway station or railway station in Brno and so on. This started happening at the turn of April and May. This means that if the measure were to be brought in at the beginning of April, perhaps today we would not have the Prague railway station full of it. But that's exactly how it was supposed to react immediately and quickly. And if my colleagues on the Security Committee pointed that out, and at that point, there wasn't time, and I see it as if it wasn't on February 24th, March. But I think that in April, that time could have been found and that we could have demanded it much sooner. And in my opinion, we wouldn't have 600 refugees at the station today who don't have papers. You're dealing with the three groups now. Of course, I listened very carefully to your press conference today. But I'm also listening to you say the kids are there. But they're still there. And the days are running. And somehow it's not moving anywhere. And when I read the article here yesterday, it's obvious here that if the Regional Assistance Centre shuts down at the end of May, we don't want to create a panic, but where will these people go? We'd probably know and deal with this in some way. We say again and again, we need the plan, we need the models. I think if I asked you today if you know how many people have returned to Ukraine, we don't know the number either. I think you're saying you're moving on, so I still want you to introduce us to the plan. I want him on the Security Committee to continue the debate. You say you have it ready. I haven't seen it until now. And I'm sure my colleagues here, especially those involved in practical work, mayors, so they'll tell you how it works, or rather doesn't work. I must say that, in the context of health care, I was very surprised to hear it said: we know that we have insufficient capacity for children's doctors. But still no one told me how to deal with it. We had a shortage of children's, practical doctors, dentists, gynecologists, although there were no 340 refugees registered here. [[1000]] And now we're saying we're gonna make it? That there'll be no problem? Can somebody tell me how we're gonna do this? And still no one told me. So I think the capacity will be insufficient. And so it is. And one more thing. You say the station, and that there's still a solution. I keep asking you, Minister, when you submitted that study on April 14th, as I call it, it said that the material reserve management would take 17 modular units for 150 people. And I keep asking, where are the modular units? Does that material reserve management have them? Then why don't we use them? Why do we have military tents built in Troy? Since April 14th, as part of the announcement of the emergency situation, the Administration of Material Reserves could have bought it. These are my reactions to your performances. I'm sure thank you for the reaction. But I still simply take the view that the refugee crisis is not well managed and that many things could have been reacted much earlier, and in many ways I see confusion and chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u21	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? It's not like that. We would therefore now open the debate. I am opening the debate and I have Mr Patrik Nacher's first report here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I will just begin by reminding again that factual remarks are not possible in the debate, and the Member can only speak twice in the debate. Yes? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I suppose I'll only get off once. Once again, for the fourth time, I have the honor of being in first place - twice in an emergency, twice in a pandemic law. It's a record today that I'm almost two and a half hours away. Unfortunately, I regret that there are so few Members and, apart from the Minister of the Interior, few members - one minister. [[Minister Baxa, the only one in the government desk, responds.]] Yes, yes, yes, I say one member of the government. I'm gonna try to take it a little differently. I'm here to print out my contribution to the emergency situation on March 29th. And I have to say, I would - and I would use my favorite word, which is consistency, which should be a politician - so I wouldn't change a word. But this time the past and the contradiction that I really feel there, you can't be mad at me that the same politicians who argued about every day of emergency a year ago, so now they're proposing it repeatedly, it just seems to me that it's a clear contradiction, but I'm not going back to that. I found here from last time, that's the only point where I'm going back to the past: the government mustn't take advantage of the emergency, says Petr Fiala. An extension of the emergency situation only if the government submits reasons and tells what measures it will implement at that time. That's what I'd like to follow. It's the Prime Minister's words. So, if I may, I'd like to ask the present Home Secretary, who sits here honestly. I would like to ask you, why is it that we, as the Czech Republic, are the only ones who repeatedly have an emergency? Why was it not introduced by Poland, which, both in terms of population and in absolute terms, solves the number of refugees infinitely higher? When I looked into other countries in Europe, if I found it right, except Italy, where it's some kind of permanent condition, I don't know if there's an emergency or something else that might be similar. In other words, what is this buried dog in that we have to declare an emergency for these situations? And you know I've been asking this consistently, even though it was because of the covid and I've been intersecting my own ministers. So my question is still the same. Why do we have to declare an emergency if, in other countries, even those who deal with more refugees, they can do it without emergency? Second question. How's the emergency request coming in line with the information that's flashing in the media about the changing number of refugees? My colleagues have already talked about this, so I'm not going to interfere any further. I'm going to look at another aspect. But I've noticed that there are 340 000 refugees here, and now 140,000 have returned. Now the question is, is it true or not? That means the numbers here are so different. But what connects them is that the number of refugees at the moment, as I understand from your mouth, Minister, is decreasing. That means the numbers are decreasing, so the pressure is decreasing logically, but the emergency situation needs to be prolonged. [[17.30 hours]] I also wonder what exactly the added value of the emergency situation would have been, what would have happened on June 1 if the emergency had not been. That means what it's going to do, what it's going to do, what it's going to do here because of an emergency situation, what it couldn't have done if it didn't have it, and how and what it's going to do to solve the crisis. That seems to me to be a legitimate question, perhaps the most common one, with which citizens turn to me and who is logically interested in me as well. Yes, I understand the difference that the emergency situation of last year and the emergency situation is that previously citizens' rights have been limited, for example, in traveling, visiting restaurants and the like, but we also agree that the emergency situation is a legal framework and within that legal framework the government can make some decisions without the House in accelerated proceedings and so on, selection procedures and so on, whether or not it uses it, for now it is a matter of government, that is, it is a legal framework. Just because it's not happening now doesn't mean it doesn't happen in 14 days. In other words, the emergency is always like a blank check, and you need to know what's behind it. As well as another question, how did the government use those 88 or 89 days in an emergency, and in what way did the government shift, how did it use this period of emergency? And is there a guarantee that these 30 days are the last? Or is it 30 days and then it'll be another 30 days and it'll continue? I ask, as I asked the Minister back then, I suspect, Adam Vojtěch, and then I asked the new Minister Válek whether there is already a light at the end of the tunnel in terms of prolonging the emergency situation, however it does not limit it now to Czech citizens or citizens of the Czech Republic. Here, I'm going to use one theory that the government says it's mastery or perfect, so the question is, why does it need an extension of the emergency? So I could answer for myself to continue to do this bravado, which, of course, raises another logical question in me that the government will only handle it bravadofully if there is an emergency. Or is she able to handle the situation without emergency? Now, what are the reasons in the press that you're presenting, print 791? I'll make this brief. Emergency status currently, I have written here, it is necessary and is used to set up necessary relocation mechanisms in relation to regions. I'd say OK here. I am both a Prague MP and a representative, the problem is that perhaps the shift in the capital city of Prague occurred not as if due to the existence of an emergency state, it is still here, but at this moment the pressure of the mayor of the capital city of Prague. And I'm saying that here as an opposition representative, yes, who could criticize him when he pushed, maybe someone will say as blackmailing the government that he's shutting down the assistance center on Tuesday, now it's moved on to the end of May. In what way did the government use emergency conditions to set up relocation mechanisms when there are four times the number of refugees in Prague to the population ratio compared to the rest of the Czech Republic? Legitimate question from Prague. This is related to the reason you have under II: It is still necessary to provide a number of accommodation capacities for decent refugee accommodation. I would like to ask whether this can be ensured - or not, so I can do it the other way: without an emergency, it cannot be ensured? III - Provision of public authorities' activities. The emergency situation allows flexible, faster coordination of actions leading to crisis management, in particular coordination of assistance to people fleeing Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Again, a legitimate question: Is there really a need for an emergency? Or is it possible to do this without him on the basis of some kind of crisis management? Crisis measures allow shorter administrative procedures, the possibility of faster, smoother simultaneous treatment of social benefits for refugees and Czech citizens. Now the question is whether this is exactly what's happening - you said it yourself - the different groups that might appear at the Main Station, but those are there, some of them waiting to deal with these things, so looking at the situation at the Main Station doesn't give the impression that it's just a quick, efficient solution, but it's more like a standard procedure for the authorities. No offense. And now there is one, please nicely, unfortunately only as the last paragraph, which would for me if I were to be fair, and I am not just a destructive critic that I will say, I am in opposition, the emergency state not, and I will basically do what the current coalition, the former opposition, did, and this concerns the purchase and storage of gas. This is the last paragraph in your material of the presentation report for the Chamber of Deputies: The emergency situation is also followed by measures taken by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the field of energy issued pursuant to § 12a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) a crisis law following the Government's resolution of 27 April 2022 on the security of gas storage in gas storage tanks in the Czech Republic for the 2022-2023 winter period. I must say that this is one of the things I thought about, which would soften me - we talked about it at the club, and my colleague Karel Havlíček explained it to me - that I would raise my hand for the shortened period of emergency, 14 days. But then - and I'd like to ask you to explain this to the Home Secretary, this is the only reason why I would raise my hand for those 14 days, he somehow messed up my decision when he said that extending the emergency situation wasn't about buying, so whether that meant buying the gas, or it was about buying something else. I'm glad that we come up with an alternative, because the 14 days that we approve of it actually 12 days before the end, before the end of the emergency, that means that if 14 days were approved, that's 26 days from now, that's 3.5 weeks. For me 3.5 weeks is enough time for me personally for this reason, if this really applies, the purchase of gas, and if the Minister meant the purchases of something else that doesn't concern me, then I would vote for that, for those 14 days. I wouldn't have you, colleagues, as much as there isn't much of you here - I don't know if anyone is listening outside the O.R., it's going pretty fast today, no one can complain that it's going on - to accept this hand from the opposition, where we say 14 days, we're voting, and I've told you that particular reason, and that's the last paragraph of your reasoning. [[begging]] For those 14 days, I'd be, I think it's a fair offer. If you refuse and insist on 30 days, I'm sorry, I can't vote. And I look forward to the Minister of the Interior's answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Mr Member, but I must ask you whether you would again be interested in becoming rapporteur, as is customary. We told you last time that you would look nice, but can you comment on the microphone if you would accept this offer?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u24	Yes, I realized it when I saw my name in the first place, that it probably fell on me, it's déjà vu, because you were also at the chair table last time. However, this time I would ask a colleague of mine to take over. Not that I don't want to sit next to the Minister for another three or four hours, we had a good time and a chat last time, but I feel that it would be fair for us to switch as well as the MPs. You're making fun of me, you're bringing me drinks, so let someone else enjoy it. [[Fun in the hall.]] Well, I refuse to thank you if there's a co-worker...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u25	So the way I see it, you turned down the offer. [[Fun.]] And I have noted the proposal that Mr Robert králíček could become rapporteur if he volunteered - please - if no one had anything against it to become rapporteur. Looks like I see approval from all sides. So thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] He deserves that, yes, applause. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So you're becoming a rapporteur. And thank you, too. Mrs Klára Dostálová is now on the list. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u26	Madam President, Minister, honourable members of the government - participation is indeed abundant, in two words. [[Minister Černochová: Three.]] I say, Minister, honourable members of the government. Okay, well, maybe the attendance will spread a little bit, but the empty benches, in an emergency, of course, cause some question marks. I would probably start by saying that it is always good to realize that when a person is in opposition or a coalition, it is necessary to weigh the words sometimes, because then sometime in the future they can really catch up with you, which, of course, succeeded Minister Rakušan, who claimed that the Czech Republic does not need emergency status because it is a sign of government failure. Of course, it's very convenient for us now, because we can use his own whip on him and the entire government of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, I would also like to use the words of my honored colleague, Dr Mašek, who, for health reasons, cannot be present today, who has asked a lot of questions on social networks, for example, which actually correspond with how citizens are actually trying to obtain concrete information from politicians. It doesn't exactly follow from the presentation report what the real reasons are for extending the emergency for another 30 days. I guess it just needs to be answered quite frankly, because even from the performances that the minister had here, I felt that everything was running, that no one needed it. So I'm gonna ask you again why do we need an emergency? Is it because of the purchases outside the selection procedures? The minister said it wasn't, that almost no one was using it. So I ask for another reason: Is it because of those refugees who lost 140,000 from the country unknown where and where the rest live? Or is it because of the chaos of paying contributions to refugees who are slowly becoming hiking after a dose? Or is it because of the confessed failure to cope with the situation with refugees in Prague? How are we going to illustrate refugees if we don't know where they are? So there's probably been a mistake with registration somewhere, and now the question is whether the government has enough bravery to admit that mistake. At the same time, of course, we also have to deal with the fact that visas are also received by those who are here illegally or who are staying illegally. Now more Ukrajinec are leaving, which, of course, has repeatedly appeared in the media before it comes, and what will happen with the visa granted? Will this visa be coming back when they came back? Or does the government really support social and health tourism here? Only from Florence is about 4-12 buses per day, which is related to about 200-600 people who are going back, leaving the country, and the visa, therefore, remains, and can they return here again, that is, to the Schengen area, so that they can, of course, follow the social tourism even further? As far as sharing EU information is concerned, it just doesn't work out for us there, it just doesn't really exchange information between those countries. And I wonder if this is the reason for the emergency, so how is it that we are the only country in Europe that uses emergency status to deal with this situation, the migration crisis, the war in Ukraine? How come other countries don't use it? When you blamed us at the covid, we were far from the only country that had to proceed to an emergency, but today we are unique. So what? So these systems work elsewhere and they don't just work with us? These are, of course, relevant questions. Like my previous speaker, my colleague Nacher, by your means, I see there one reason that is truly worthy of consideration, and this, of course, is the addition of gas reservoirs. Then, of course, I understand it in my own way, but given how many days of emergency we've already been in, so do I, if the government would agree to the 14 days, I'm sure I'll support the 14 days. One of the reasons also mentioned by the Minister is to ensure accommodation. I would like to ask the Minister here a little bit, but if he and his colleague within the government could not talk about how to set up really the municipalities and regions to be interested in the programme that the Ministry of Regional Development has announced precisely so that when the hoteliers, of course, who want to start their tourist season, will actually give statements from accommodation to the particular people, so that they can accept them, so that they have enough accommodation capacity for the municipality and the region. The state had an ambition to put about one billion in this program, which is exactly 900 million crowns. To date, it was roughly simply used by a few recipients for 48 million. It's logical to ask what the problem is. Why, then, do cities, regions, and communities not use it? I'm gonna try to sum up here just to get the minister to take the picture, because you've accumulated a lot of conditions for the individual communities and cities. First of all, the support there is 120,000 per fugitive if you reconstruct the apartment, 40,000 if you reconstruct the hostel. In all of this, of course, if there is really a need for a wider renovation, or even a reconstruction of non-residential premises, it is not enough, because we certainly do not want 12 refugees living in a one-bedroom apartment to multiply. In addition, public support is not resolved. Another moment to communicate with the European Commission, why don't they give apologies for public support during the refugee crisis? Because the communities know very well that refugee status is only for one year. But the sustainability of these projects for municipalities is five years. And the mayor has to ask logically what I'm gonna do for the next four years if I don't have those people with refugee status there anymore? And the D.O.D. is telling them if you don't have people with refugee status anymore, you need to turn it into a public support scheme. But ask the mayors. De minimis is exhausted and services in general economic interest, where, of course, there is a cost gap, which is difficult for municipalities. At the same time, the Ministry says that you have regulated rent for five years, which means CZK 74 per square metre. Of course, the mayors and mayors are logically asking if I have to keep it for five years, who I will be staying there, because, of course, the housing costs would make the classic market rent or rent available at the place and not such regulated rents. And besides, it's not enough, so there's a motivational file missing. Today, all communities are fighting a huge rise in energy prices, and you're giving them a 15 percent co-financing! So not only do they have little money for the reconstruction, they have meaningless long-term sustainability, but you tell them you're going to co-finance 15 percent. Why isn't it motivating for those communities to find it interesting in some way? And speaking of ridiculous things, look at the unfit expenses of the program. Incompetent expenses are engineering networks. How are you going to place a mobile house on the plot if you can't connect the networks? And once again, it's all supposed to be paid for by the municipalities themselves. The Ministry said it reserves the right to shorten the call, the time limits for the call. I would argue too much for you to agree with the government that it will stop, the conditions will be redesigned so that it will be really interesting for the mayors, municipalities and cities, motivation to somehow actually help the refugee crisis, so that the apartments can be renovated very quickly, whether they are non-residential spaces. I know there's another law that's about to happen after, of course, the non-residential space is turned into housing. I have a lot of comments on this, but that is not the subject of today's negotiations. I just wanted her to know what she's doing right. It is not possible to say that we will help refugees to offer them new housing, and at the same time we will prepare for the municipalities, for those who are really supposed to ensure it, such disadvantageous conditions that no one is claiming it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Madame, and now you will speak, and Mr Jan Hrnčíř is duly entered in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state that the emergency situation is a declaration of government failure. If these words are familiar to you, dear colleagues from the government coalition, you are not mistaken. These are the words of the current Interior Minister Vít Rakušan to the address of the former government of Andrej Babiš. If the Minister considers the emergency to be a failure of the government, then why is the government that is a member again - and I would point out pointlessly - asking for an extension? Is it the confession of the government itself that it simply does not know where it has failed, that it is completely and desperately clueless and is trying to mask it with an emergency? I would like to stress that there is absolutely no legal reason for further extension of the emergency situation. Again, the emergency situation is intended for situations that have occurred unexpectedly and need to be resolved quickly and effectively, and for this reason a 30-day period is set for it. For these 30 days, the government has sufficient time to set the optimal solution to the problem. So much theory. And what does our government do? For several months, he has been issuing chaotic measures, responding to tragic and absurd delays, and is proving more and more that he does not know what to do. Instead of self-esteem, he asks for further and further extension of the emergency situation. The fact is that the government coalition is completely out of control of the current situation. The poor social welfare system for refugees, in particular, has caused economic tourism and literally plundering our social system. I'd like to stop by for a moment. It was a government that called the opposition's objections to the tragically ill-set social aid system xenophobic and unfounded to Ukrainian refugees. What's the reality? More and more it turns out that our objections were correct and justified, that not all refugees are really people fleeing the war, and that suspicion of advantageous business with economic tourism seems to be confirmed, when Ukrainian citizens will only come to us for benefits, and then they will leave, whether to another country or even back home to Ukraine. Of course, this literal milking of our social system is at the expense of our citizens. Citizens who have suffered the worst fall in the standard of living since 1993 and whose own government has consistently refused to help effectively. I would also like to recall the incident of last week when the SPD chairman Tomio Okamura was here interpreting questions of citizens concerned by the lack of communication by the government and its often illogical actions. What did the government do? Instead of calming the situation, providing specific answers and presenting a clear and defendable government strategy to help Ukrainian refugees fled the hall. It is no wonder that the government's cluelessness and its chaotic decisions about helping refugees from Ukraine bring doubt and concern to society. Czech citizens feel that help is at their expense. He is worried about his security, and he is quite rightly concerned, because the government absolutely does not have an overview of the movements of refugees or of who and how he actually provides help. People are worried about their health and about the introduction of our already completely or almost eradicated diseases that are still present in Ukraine due to poorly available medical care, poor hygiene or inadequate vaccination. What did the government say? They call these fears xenophobia, extremism, or even fascism. It is true that the incoming refugees do not undergo any medical control, nor are they ordered to be quarantined. Thus, once again, instead of offering an effective solution, the government merely silences its citizens. And apparently wants to silence the opposition and its ability to control the government. The constant extension of the emergency situation is a restriction of democracy, as it makes it impossible for Parliament to do its job properly. This is disproportionate and in this situation absolutely unjustified strengthening the power of the government itself, with the opposition obviously having, as the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, to sit in the corner, to remain silent and to shuffle her feet. The official reason for extending the emergency situation is its alleged need in order to provide accommodation for the owners of the accommodation facility and because of government financial compensation for the costs of migrants to the regions. In fact, however, the government does not need an emergency for this. Everything can and should have been dealt with under standard legislation. On the contrary, there is increasing concern about possible misuse of the emergency situation due to the apostasy of the obligation to issue tender procedures for public contracts, including those in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. Once again, the opposition has no effective tool at the moment to prevent this, if necessary. This is simply bending democracy, and I cannot agree with that in any way. So why continue to prolong the emergency situation? Why expose another Bianko check to a government that hasn't been able to find effective solutions in three months and adopt the relevant legislation? Why continue to restrict democracy in this state? I don't see a single reason! Therefore, I will not support the extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u29	Thank you and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear, Mr Ryba will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm lucky - or bad luck, how can I put this? - that I experienced the emergency situation primarily as an ordinary citizen, and, of course, I watched the transmissions from the Chamber of Deputies honestly, I watched the newspapers, I watched the television. And we're living in digital times, and the ones and the zeros are these little bitches lined up, leaving a digital trail that's uncoverable, and I've gotten a little grumpy with that clue, and I've been back in the past a little bit. So before I go back to the past, let's see what the emergency is all about. What exactly do you allow the government to do? It's always said here that citizens don't touch it and so on. Yes, it doesn't, but it can be touched. And if someone then, the government, decides to take advantage of these options, there's no way to stop it. So what makes it possible for the government? To limit the freedom of movement, the right of assembly or the right of ownership and use of property, to prohibit the entry or movement of persons in defined places, to impose duties. Then there's the point of taking measures to move foreigners. We are talking about the issue of the Prague railway station, but the emergency situation here continues so far and has not been used to move foreigners. What I think is probably the most fundamental thing that makes emergency conditions possible is the quicker purchase of military orders. That's what I think I'd be a little worried about here, because when it comes to military contracts, it's definitely not from our pockets, it's from taxpayers' pockets, so in the sense of the word, it's fucking affecting our citizens. And now I'm gonna come back, and now I'm gonna take a trip to the past that I've been through as a regular citizen. And I will specifically quote here, for example, the current Prime Minister, Mr Fiala, when: we will support the emergency situation under specific conditions, such as a detailed economic reboot plan, and there must be a really professional discussion about how we will restore the economy. I think that at this time of the economy, it's pretty damn touching, but I just don't see anything specific here. Once again, Prime Minister in the last parliamentary term: and if this is necessary for a short period of time. It is impossible to prolong an endless situation where the government has almost all the power and no one can control it. Did something change? So now it's like he can watch it. What defended last time and now doesn't? I don't quite understand. Furthermore, we have Mr Válek's comments directly on the TOP 09 official website: The emergency situation is not working. Screw tightening is the path of Bolshevik. I totally agree. So I guess Bolshevik doesn't mind now. Next, we have a quote from Mrs Němcová: The government is using emergency conditions to create an advantage for some business entities and to liquidate others. The government doesn't play fair with us. If it is unable to prepare at least a little understandable rules based on verifiable data, it should be commanded, not held in power. Maybe I can think of it as a challenge for the present. And the emergency is unconstitutional. So before that, the emergency was unconstitutional, now it's not. [[18.00 hours]] And last, if I may, the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Rakušan: The state of emergency is a declaration of government failure. In Lidovky September 29, 2020. So I can take it from the present point of view as such a constructive self-criticism that I welcome. Finally, I will, of course, vote against. But I mean it constructively. In fact, during the last parliamentary term, the opposition kept saying that a crisis situation could be managed without an emergency. And since I am a very wishful man, by not raising the voice for an emergency, I want to give the possibility to the current government to show how such a crisis situation can be managed without an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Hello warmly and now with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. I am very briefly, my colleague, sorry, I think there are some things that need to be repeated, even though they are said here as a previous speaker by the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan. It is not true that we are using the emergency situation to write tenders at ministries, and not at the Ministry of Defence at all. It's a lie! So I'm going to repeat what Minister Rakušan said here. Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - zero public contracts using emergency conditions. Ministry of Agriculture - zero public contracts using emergency conditions. MPO - also zero using emergency conditions. MŠMT - again zero using emergency condition. And as I was saying, the Department of Defense - another zero, not using emergency status to write public contracts. If this goes down again, I'm gonna get out, 'cause I think some things just have to happen again. So just maybe those colleagues who weren't here before, so try telling them, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u33	Thank you for your contribution. And I want to point out, we can't be dealing with factual points right now. Mr Drahoslav Ryba is now duly registered. And before he makes his contribution, I'll read the apology in the meantime. Although the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 17 to 19 o'clock for working reasons, then Mr Josef Kott apologizes between 17 and 17.30 for working reasons and logically apologies from the Minister of Defence are cancelled from 17.35. And please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u34	Madam President, honourable members and members of the Government. When I was getting ready for tonight's gig, I figured the first thing I'd do was maybe the legal perspective of an unlawyer. I am not a lawyer, but I still think I have a little something to say in this area, and therefore really just a few sentences to start with. The government has today presented material in which it requests an extension of the emergency situation until 30 June. Historically, when we go back to when the law actually started to apply, or the crisis law came into effect, we get to date 1. 1. 2000 and since the publication or the introduction of this law has either been declared or extended by an emergency state eleven times. Which I think is not wrong in itself, because it shows that crisis legislation as such works, and it is correct if crisis legislation is used where it is really necessary and necessary. And there's a little buried that dog when it's necessary and necessary and when it's not necessary and necessary. For the sake of repetition, an emergency situation is a legal framework that can restrict human rights, only a legal framework that can limit human rights, which is why I think - guaranteed by the Czech Constitution. Why? Because it is introduced by constitutional law, namely the law on security of the Czech Republic. And here I'm going to remind you that we've been talking about the pandemic law recently, and I still think that the pandemic law, because it clearly limits some fundamental human rights given by the Constitution, and the pandemic law is not a constitutional law, so I think it's unconstitutional. From this point of view, I think that the emergency situation that is being declared today, which is now in force and which the government is asking to extend, is legitimate for this reason. I'm not saying it's necessary, but it's still legitimate and I think it's right. When I was preparing for today's meeting, because I'm the new MP, I wasn't here last time, so I really spent about eight hours going through the Steno Protocol as it was done here in the House in 2020. And while I'm not going to read all the Steno Protocols to you here, because I don't want to be here until the morning either, at least I made a few notes, and I see that some of my colleagues had this idea, too, but luckily, in most cases, I chose a slightly different quote. So the 43rd meeting of April 7th, Minister Rakušan will allow his quote. "We ask whether this emergency is really an institution that must be extended indefinitely. Yes, we as mayors and independents say: 30. 4. we are able to support this compromise proposal that we have come to. But at the same time we say: we are willing to meet here every ten days, every fourteen days, and always listen to the government's opinion, how things have shifted, how the government and experts look at the need to keep this situation running for weeks. Let's hope not for months. We need that information, we need to see that there are clear criteria to be made here. Finally, let me say that the emergency situation as a special regime should not be extended for more than 14 days, in this case 18 days." Well, let me just remind you that we're talking about 30 days today. And we, as opposition today, are saying that we are willing to meet in 14 days and extend it for another 14 days. Another quote. Prime Minister Fiala, then Mr Petr Fiala, on April 7th: "I must remind the government that if it had listened to the opposition and had not been condescending, we would have had a proper debate here in this House at the end of January about the onset of the pandemic and could have been better prepared for the start of the crisis. And that's why we're asking for a plan from the government today. And we're not asking for just one plan. The first plan we have the right to demand from the government is a plan to renew our freedom to restart our country. I am talking about an exact plan that must include how we protect the endangered groups, how and who under what circumstances we will gradually return to normal life and what criteria. And I would call the second plan a new small programming statement by the government - updated priorities. Because it is clear that their current policy, the policy that the government has been doing until the outbreak of the crisis is now absolutely useless and it is not possible for the government to exist in anybody's and nothing irresponsible modem for another year and a half. That's out of the question." Mr. Petr Fiala, April 28th: "We here, ladies and gentlemen, decide absolutely fundamental things. We do not decide anything less than the power of the government to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. And in such a situation, we must be extremely cautious, and we must have good reasons for doing so. There is nothing about an emergency situation that gives the government exceptional powers that the government can use to limit citizens' rights and freedoms - I note it can - there is nothing about a clear plan, there is nothing about an exact timetable. There's nothing there, it's -- I'm sorry, but I don't know what else to call it -- it's bureaucratic reading below average, and it's not even in any reasonable way assembled." And the pearl that fell here - and I read it, or found out that Mr. Vlastimil Válek, the health minister today, used it in November 2021 on Space: "The emergency is a desperate solution for people who have failed to handle the situation." Of course, I could go on, but I don't want to, because I think there's been enough quotes, which is why I've limited them. I can already hear, in quotes, not that anyone's yelling at me, certainly not, but I hear voices: well, that was a different situation. It was and it wasn't. You are right in that it was another crisis, another crisis that required other measures. Yes. It was a measure that limited human rights, human freedoms substantially more than the measures that the government is now using to address this crisis. However, it was still a crisis that had to be dealt with, and a crisis law was applied. [[18.10 hours]] Otherwise, of course, the huge problem I see a little bit from that time maybe from the outside. The biggest difference is that the current coalition was in opposition at the time, and the current opposition - sorry, only one part of it - was in government. We also call for an accurate plan, as we want a clear strategy, which has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. True, so far material has been submitted to set strategic priorities of the Czech Government to master the refugee wave related to the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, and unfortunately so far without any great opportunity to discuss this material. As a matter of fairness, I would like to thank the Minister that today on the Security Committee, we agreed that there will be a chance to discuss this material with the Minister and that the Minister will agree with the Chairman of the Committee that we will conduct a separate meeting of the Security Committee on this issue. I could rate him as much as Mr. Petr Fiala did at the time, but I won't repeat it. But it is far from there, and it cannot be the strategy that I believe the government has committed itself to, and it cannot be a strategy in as detailed a variant as was requested by Mr Petr Fiala at the time. In your speeches during the previous government, you criticized the extension of the emergency by a month, and you yourself, who have also fallen here, extended it for 58 days, and now you are asking for another month. From my point of view, it's really an expression of opinion, and it's kind of a short memory. Unfortunately -- probably for you -- it's kind of coming back to you right now, because I'm sure it's not listening to you very well, it's coming back to you a little bit like a boomerang. Let me conclude, because I've always tried to be correct in some way and tried to be factual, so I had three questions prepared here. The one was: how are you going to force and even notify refugees that they have an obligation to come to verify their whereabouts when you do not know where they are? Of course, it doesn't apply to everyone. This is true - because part of them is known where they are staying, where they live, but a large part, or a large part of them are not known. Because, yes, I understand that you can force quotes, and it's probably the right solution when they come to pay their benefits, that you'll be asking questions. But I do have information that not all those refugees are coming for the benefits. So I guess it doesn't work out, but even for the part where it does, I guess it's worth it. But I don't think it's gonna work out. I thank the Minister for speaking here and giving information on what purchases - and I do not want to criticize the army at all, because I do not know - what purchases were made on the basis of the exemption from the Public Procurement Act in Section 2330 of this Act in the context of emergency conditions. But I would like to receive similar information after the end of the crisis situation sometime soon, because it would certainly be interesting and perhaps calm some colleagues. The third one I've asked about here before, and I haven't received the Minister's reply yet. Again, I wonder why there is a restriction between possible restrictions - possible restrictions - mentioned in Section 5 letter. (f) Crisis management law, i.e. limitation of the right to strike. Because I think there are no strikes at this time because of the Ukrainian crisis, and I don't know why it's being given there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask if there's any interest in the Minister's reply. Not now. It wasn't clear. Mr Jaroslav Bašta is also duly registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the security risks associated with any widespread migration. Abuse of the mass movements of the civilian population as psychological and tactical weapons has a relatively short history. For the first time, Nazi Germany reached it in 1940 when it attacked France. War refugees then flooded communications and prevented the maneuvering of the French army. The Red Army in East Prussia used the same on a larger and more brutal scale four years later. Since then, forced civilian migration has been part of all the operations associated with what we now call hybrid war. But that is only one side of the problem. The second relates to the fact that, in addition to the population at imminent risk of war events, people from the margins of society or those who have previously considered economic migration are the first to move. In the case of Ukrainian refugees, statistics show that out of about 15 million internal migrants, half of them remain on Ukrainian territory, while the other half chose asylum beyond their country's borders. In the case of the Czech Republic, there are about 350 000 refugees. The absolute majority of them, almost 90 percent, are women and children. These really do not represent any security risk for either the Czech community or the Czech Republic. But the devil is always hiding in detail, in this case among 40,000 members of the migrant Ukrainian male population. Some of them are illegally staying with us from the point of view of Ukrainian laws. When Russia's aggression broke out, all male citizens who are over 18 and under 60 years of age must not leave the territory of Ukraine without legal exceptions. I mention this because there are psychological mechanisms that show that when someone breaks the first rule, the first law, it's very easy for him to break the others. And that's already happening. Police and workers of organizations helping Ukrainian refugees point, for example, to misinformation, abuse or stealing from the most vulnerable migrants by Ukrainian criminal structures. In addition, we have before our eyes a reading example of a Russian secret service operation conducted according to a script known from the autumn of last year at the borders of Belarus with Latvia and Poland. The use of culturally different organised migration is intended to disrupt the positive state of the Čech to Ukrainian refugees. Among other things, it also illustrates the problem in public opinion with regard to batch tourism. When I look at these unsolved negative phenomena, I absolutely don't understand the government's request to prolong the emergency situation. Why do you want something you can't use in practice? The migrants pose a security risk... poses a security risk of only a few percent among war refugees. In cooperation with Ukrainian authorities, our authorities and security forces can easily identify them and then prevent some problems. Unfortunately, the government and under its leadership, too, have been treating the migration crisis rather as an enthusiastic non-profit who has only one interest - generously helping. That is why it has managed to partially manage the enthusiasm and trust of Czech citizens. Adding to this the current government's historical response to criticism from the opposition, I fear that if there is a list of persons presenting a security risk, the likelihood that, instead of people suspected of belonging to Russian-language organised crime, there will be more of a criticism of government migration policy is very high. I do not exclude that this delicate task will be entrusted by the government to a nonprofit of the type of European values or the CZ.NIC association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for your contribution. The next enrollment is Mrs Renata Oulehlová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam President. I'd actually like to use the document that was handed over to us by the government on 10. 5. and it is the establishment of strategic priorities of the Czech Government to manage the refugee wave. In this material we see a summary of the activity and the measures taken. 24. 3. started the war in Ukraine and 27. 3. on Sunday, already in the city where I am also mayor, the first desperate mothers with children came to us who escaped before the war. [[correct: February]] It was us, the cities, the regions, the citizens who had to respond immediately. The desire to help these people was really great. Emotionally, it wasn't easy at all, but it did. I would now like to stop at the measures that the government is presenting itself with, that it has helped, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has, that it has. Accommodation and living. We needed to deal with that question immediately. We couldn't wait because we had these people physically with us, we needed to accommodate them, we needed to provide them with food, clothes, so we pulled all our powers, and without any methodology, any direction from the government, so we had to be able to manage. We immediately prepared what we had in the cities, who had free apartments, offered apartments, who had free accommodation in the hostels, we offered hostels, somewhere it was actually capacitively connected, all kinds of accommodation. Privates also responded excellently, offered apartments, offered any accommodation capacity. This is actually how we managed to handle the wave. Specifically, the biggest wave came to us in the first week and we were able to take care of them all. On the other hand, the government informs us of the provisions, accommodation and housing that have been met. They've written a grant title that MMR actually tells them they're able to help. I'd just like to say that the grant title is, for the sake of drawing on apartment one, two, a limited number of people, so we can only get a grant of 480,000. The apartments involved are usually in a state that they are uninhabitable. For 480,000, no city is able to put the apartment in such a state as to be habitable. I speak from experience in Sokolov, where unfortunately we have houses that are already inhabited by users... or users of benefits, people who have never worked and do not want to work. I'm not talking about Ukraine, I'm not talking about Ukraine. They're the apartments that the people who just lived in left us. So we can't fix them for 480,000. Another is the sustainability of five years when we can only accommodate those affected by the war in Ukraine. Only if this condition, when these people are not with us, can we offer them to someone else as social housing. We must not collect any payments for these apartments, those citizens must live free of charge for the duration of sustainability, so you will automatically report all these apartments to KACPU and you will pray that people who really need it come. So I don't think we're the only town that we're really not going this way. Another is employment and integration into the labour market. Unfortunately, as has been said here many times, we don't really know the professions of those people, but if those people are in our apartments, in our residential hotels, I mean cities, if they can, even if they're with private hostels, they need to contact the city, with the employment office, so we're able and we're doing it individually to help them. A social worker really goes around employers with them, visits the employment office, and I have to say that these people are also able to find work. In most cases, at least those who are with us really want to work and are actively looking for work. There is one problem, and that is that we in our region are very affected by the fact that we do not have a doctor. We don't have pediatricians, we don't have dentists, we don't have practitioners. There are districts where it is already very difficult in this regard. On the other hand, we only received six doctors from Ukraine in Sokolov. We have dentists from Ukraine, we have surgeons, we have many professions of doctors that we really need, unfortunately work, we have also managed to find work, they work for 18,000 gross. We'd like to keep these people, so I'd really like to ask that in some way, although I understand it's not easy, but we doctors need doctors, we have doctors here, but unfortunately they can't heal. Another sector is education. Here's the stuff that says that the M.S.M.T. is going to issue grant titles. Unfortunately, all this stuff was so late. Take the fact that we really had the kids in the first week, had the moms, and had to act. We do many activities, we approached all the sports clubs that took Ukrainian children together, placed them in schools, in kindergartens. The city has released $5 million from the budget for adaptation stays so that the children can get together, all the children of our primary schools will leave. We do really different activities. From the grant we only have an adaptation coordinator who can be paid, but maybe we have a lot of Ukrainian teachers who can't go to the kids, they can go to kindergarten as assistants, but we're already paying ourselves because it's coming from the city budget. Unfortunately, what's bothering me very much, the minister here also spoke of the OSPOD, do we really have children who need help who ran away with their parents before the war in Ukraine - and what happened? The state of OSPOD reduced subsidies for activities, so the state orders a service for cities and municipalities that it is not able to cover for us. In our country it specifically makes a million crowns, which we have to take from our own. [[18.30 hours]] I just want to say that the fact that the refugee crisis is being handled is really, it takes a lot of effort. I would like to quote here Minister Rakušan, who said that we are going to the House with our heads up like a government that has mastered a migration wave of such magnitudes that no one has ever counted on. Yes, the migration wave is a very large scale, no one has ever counted on it. But who should and rightly should have that head held high are firemen, regional leaders, towns and villages. Because we really helped these people quickly, we helped them effectively, but at least in the first few days, the government really didn't make it any easier for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Madame. Another duly signed up is Mr Radovan Vích. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, good evening. I will be quite brief because many of these things have been said by my previous speakers from our parliamentary club, or Members of our parliamentary club with priority rights, so I am really just focusing on what has not yet been said here today. The government wishes to have this emergency extended until the end of June. However, at the SPD, we believe that this is no longer necessary and the Czech Republic should rather return to normal functioning without emergency conditions and, if necessary, to more moderate measures in the context of crisis legislation. For more than two years of constant emergency situations with various long breaks between them, there is nothing we should continue to want. The emergency situation is quite extraordinary, designed only to resolve so uncontrollable problems quickly, that it cannot be solved differently, normally, under the full functioning of the state and the private sector. Therefore, it should be treated as a last resort if there is no other way. But now we are in a situation where things can be done differently, and we should do so. The government just got used to the emergency and got comfortable in a way. In my opinion, the current situation can be dealt with by instruments of standard crisis legislation, i.e. accommodation can be dealt with with by providers such as an agreement or a state of danger, which can be declared by the captains, who can subsequently coordinate accommodation, or determine the so-called means of property, which are, inter alia, services including accommodation services. And I am convinced that both the government and the Home Secretary know that. On the other hand, I understand that the regions do not want to take over in this state, because if we learn that there are 340 000 Ukrainian refugees here on Thursday, and on Sunday we will learn that there are 200 000 of them, which means 120,000 have probably returned to Ukraine, it is evident that there is no overview of how many Ukrainian refugees there are, in which regions. There's a different situation in every county, and we don't even know the composition of those people who stay here in our territory. Moreover, the current government has also had three months to address the issue of accommodation capacity for migrants and to adopt relevant legislation, that is to say, the so-called lex Ukraine. What is the reason why the government is asking for a further extension of the emergency situation? It's a pretty weak argument, in my opinion. Prime Minister Petr Fiala said for the media: So far we can cope well with the unprecedented wave of refugees, but in order to continue and manage the situation so well, we agreed that we would need to ask the House for an extension of the emergency for another 30 days. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan added that emergency conditions are needed primarily for housing people, among other things, in places where normal regulations would not allow this. Another reason is said to be easier to pay for the cost of humanitarian housing to self-government. Thus, the reimbursement of the costs of accommodation to self-government cannot be the main reason for an emergency in the entire territory of the Czech Republic. Does the government have a problem paying the costs that are properly documented and billed? I'm asking myself this question. If something in the state administration and self-government or their cooperation does not work so fundamentally, I would have expected the relevant ministries to present the Lex Ukraine, which would have dealt with all this, and the House would have liked to discuss it without delay. I will remind you of the controversial last extension of the emergency situation by almost two months. And in this, I'm glad that the government has abandoned the controversial idea of getting approved of extending the emergency for more than one month, which is undoubtedly that the government can do. However, I still don't think we should accommodate her this time. Otherwise, the SPD has repeatedly voted against the emergency situation. There are not enough reasons for prolonging the emergency situation and, in my opinion, they are very weak. On the contrary, there are many reasons for returning to the normal life of Czech society without emergency conditions. There's no state of war here. What also upset me is the claim of government officials that, unlike the emergency situation during the Coronavirus this time, they do not limit Czech citizens. Indirectly, of course, it limits them, but they pay it all out of their taxes. Thus, with regard to migration rules for this wave from Ukraine, it is appropriate to think and evaluate even more, but above all, it is no longer necessary to prolong the emergency situation again. The situation is more or less stable in my opinion. We do not have any fundamental problems that would not be addressed under the ordinary laws of crisis legislation. If there is a big problem and there is no other way to solve it, see Romani refugees at the Prague Central Station, some with unclear citizenship, a milder instrument of crisis management remains available. This is a state of danger declared in the territory of a region, or more regions, or in the territory of the capital city of Prague. In my view, therefore, we do not need an emergency in this situation anymore, and therefore I cannot support another emergency situation that the government is asking for for for the next 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u41	Thank you and another duly signed up is Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u42	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must confess that I am going to have a really hard time talking because a lot of the things I have prepared have already fallen. Well, I hope my perspective is a little different to some extent. I'm sorry, I'm gonna use some quotes that have already been made here. I recognise that the Ukrainian war has brought you great problems, but also the opportunity to mask the causes and the need for rational government solutions to the ongoing global economic recession or crisis, which has clearly begun to manifest itself before this conflict. I also understand that the so-called higher good can hide the inability or not to stop unprecedented inflation and the inability to provide citizens of the Czech Republic with cheaper food, gas or fuel, as has been done, for example, in Hungary. On this basis, let us ask ourselves: What did the government do for a Czech citizen? In these difficult times, when we need rather discreet diplomats and extraordinary skilled and courageous economists, and not politicians who repeatedly claim that we are at war without declaring it to anyone? Oh, thank God. In my opinion, there is no legal reason for an emergency. Pursuant to constitutional law 110 of 1998 on the security of the Czech Republic - I quote: Emergency status is declared if there is a natural disaster, an environmental or industrial accident, or an accident or other danger which to a large extent threatens lives, health or property values or internal order and safety. End of quote. [[18.40 hours]] From the wording of the law, the following conclusion can be drawn: a possible threat to internal order and security has been caused by you yourself by the fact that you have not been able to perform sufficient and effective filtration of incoming Ukrainian migrants due to their permanent residence in Ukraine and the possible security risks that these persons could pose for our safety. The congratulations of this problem appear to be the arrival of numerous groups of Romani people with Hungarian passports for the purpose of drawing benefits higher than in Slovakia, Hungary or Poland, or other benefits. It is a question of why the value of these doses was set in our country when it had to be clear that it would stimulate exactly the outcome that we can now observe. Are there really so much higher cost of living in our Republic than other V4 countries in order to make it necessary for us to have benefits twice or three times higher than in these countries? Responsible government authorities could have warned an analogue situation that was repeated earlier in Western European countries, where most migrants headed to countries with the most generous social system. The imbalance in these doses between countries affected by migration is then the legal result of the current situation and the basis for the organized arrival of others whose only motivation is to draw the generous funds offered by the government, not to flee from war rage. This may indicate either the incompetence and internal emptyness of the government or the deliberate lure of as many migrants into our Republic as possible. Is it God's intention to show that this government can do good as well as their Western European patterns, or to permanently gain cheap labour into our economy suffering from human misery? If this government really supports Ukraine and its renewal is a priority for it, then all Ukrainian migrants must be persuaded to return to their country of origin immediately after the end of the fights, because the restoration of their country without them will hardly be possible. You claim that the emergency will not affect our citizens at all. I'd like to believe that, but after all, my previous life taught me some caution. Through your actions, you spin an enchanted circle, where you create problems with unintended or possibly intentional actions, thus opening your way to the use of resources that give you benefits for easy solutions to possible serious complications in the near future. This is absolutely also relevant to the current emergency situation, which can be used to cope with and suppress civil unrest as a result of the serious deterioration of the economic situation of our citizens caused, among other things, by your current activities, or rather by inactivity. However, although I want to end up positive as a certain negativist, I say to you, the representatives of the coalition: have courage and try to rule without an emergency within the ordinary legislative framework. Show our citizens that your previous unbridled and bland performances were only a preparatory phase for what you promised before the elections, that is, that you will rule differently and better than the previous government, that is, without emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. And another duly signed up is Mr. Oldřich Černý. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it was the current five-calice government that protested massively a year ago against the extension of the emergency situation. Last year, you took turns here at the microphone like on a treadmill and talked about how important it is to act, to use existing laws and no longer prolong the emergency situation. You've all been protesting almost every time you're here against an extension of the emergency. For example, at the 83rd session of the Chamber of Deputies on the extension of the emergency situation of 11 February 2021, MEPs from the then opposition, who are now part of the government's five-calice, took turns with the microphone with arguments against the extension of the emergency situation. You said how it was necessary to have another plan, that the emergency situation was exceptional and that it could not be extended all the time, etc. Of course, I must point out that the then pandemic of coronavirus and the current refugee wave are indeed different. The pandemic has hit our country considerably more than refugees from Ukraine. Many establishments, companies, restaurants, hotels were closed, practically all their lives stopped in our company. But that doesn't happen now. This means that the government should now use this exceptional instrument, the emergency situation, even less. But unfortunately, it doesn't. So, as I was saying, at the 83rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, you did not want an emergency situation and you criticized the government at that time that it was incompetent. From the arguments of the same day, i.e. February 11, 2021, I will quote by selecting, for example, the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala: "Ladies and gentlemen," I quote, "in this meeting, in my opinion, it is not who wants and who does not want the inevitable measures against covid, because we all want it, we all want measures against covid. At this meeting, it is not about who is aware and who is not aware of the seriousness of the situation. Most of us are aware of this, maybe up to two, but the vast majority of us are aware of the seriousness of the situation. It's not about who, for example, wants to help paramedics have everything they need. That's what we all want. At this meeting, the question is whether together we will take advantage of the opportunity to stop the emergency as the government's only response. Let's just do it, let's just put an end to this and replace this one with a series of sensible measures, one for which, as I said, there is a majority here that most people want. So I suggest that instead of extending the emergency situation as the only answer to all the questions that are here, we all discuss something else together, about replacing the emergency situation. Replaced by sensible and effective solutions that will have people's confidence, based on facts, enjoy a wider consensus and actually work. Today is Thursday, the emergency ends on Sunday, we can move on and we have a lot to do in the next few days." End of the quote of the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala of 11 February 2021, when an extension of the emergency situation was discussed here in the House. I will also give an example of the current Minister, Mr Marian Jurečka, who, for example, pointed out in his protest against the emergency situation on the same day that the then government should apply another law, namely the one on public health, and not the emergency. I quote: "What are the government's specific options from Monday when they do not go in a state of emergency, but are they going under the Public Health Act or other laws? I'm going to take some parts of this law right here. So the Public Health Act § 68 clearly gives the competence to address the issue of protection against the introduction of infectious diseases from abroad, and here the government has the tools to create parameters for what measures the government should take when people travel from abroad to the Czech Republic. So in this area, the absence of an emergency will have no effect at all. Questions about the separation of beds, coordination, etc., which also came from the mouth of Minister Zaorálek, again § 69 para. 1, it is clear that this can be done outside an emergency. Wearing drapes, protective equipment can again be done according to this law." End of quote. And I'm picking the last, third example. The current President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, also on that day, i.e. 11 February 2021, in her protest against the emergency situation, for example, stated a list of what can be done without emergency conditions. I quote from her speech from the 83rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term: "And since we are already cursing ourselves with fetishism, as it was called, with an emergency situation, let's say what can be done without emergency conditions. Sometimes it is mysticized again, information is used that is not entirely true, and it is therefore necessary to set things straight, what can be done under our applicable legislation. [[18.50 hours]] We would like to have legislation, and, as I said, a crisis law amended, which would allow some things to happen even more without an emergency situation, but you didn't make it, so let's just talk about the legislation that we have here. It would be possible to continue to close schools, kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, or to limit their operation. It would be possible to order protective measures such as drapes and disinfection. It would continue to be possible to limit the operation of accommodation and catering services, to limit theatre, film performances and sporting events. As far as the army is concerned, the most frequently tilted argument: in the summer we were without emergency condition and the army helped out because the Chief of Staff may release soldiers even without emergency condition at the request of the cities and municipalities. That's what legislation allows. The captains and mayor of the capital can declare a state of danger with certain limitations. Regional hygienists can take extraordinary measures, such as bans on visits to social facilities and hospitals, restrictions on the number of persons at mass events, separation of persons and so on. What is not possible, it is fair to add, is the restriction of the free movement of persons and their stay in the territory of the Czech Republic. Yes, at 9:00 p.m., there couldn't be a limited movement until morning. But is this really what we need so badly? What will help to solve people's mobility, the situation? Are we sure that by paying for this, the situation has improved? I don't think so." End of quote. I hope nothing very restrictive of that will happen now. Then why the emergency? I'm asking you, I'm asking you for our citizens. Extension... So you, the five-calice government, protested a year ago about something that you are now introducing again. And once again, it was at a time when our country and, above all, our citizens were much more affected by the situation than they are now. At the time, you were on the mountain to use existing legislation, which is sufficient, instead of an emergency. After all, you said the same thing that the MPs of our SPD movement said back then. However, you are now suddenly taking the opposite view and are unable to accept that the current situation can be resolved according to existing legislation. We in the SPD always have the same opinion. We don't change him like you do. Thus, even this time, we will not support the extension of the emergency situation, since, as before, we also believe this time that there is no such exceptional situation to justify the prolongation of the emergency situation and that this situation can be dealt with by existing legislation without further extension of the emergency situation. I will just point out that there has long been a major decline in incoming refugees from Ukraine. As we learn from the media, the number of visas issued is falling dramatically, i.e. the situation with regard to the number of refugees has stabilised. And that is certainly not the reason for prolonging the emergency situation. Moreover, about 40 percent of Ukrainian refugees have left our country in recent weeks. According to Minister Rakušan, as he said a few days ago in Question Václav Moravec, there are now roughly 200,000 refugees from Ukraine in our country, even though 342 000 Ukrajinec received temporary visas. Thus, more than 40 percent of the original number left. And in this situation, you want to extend the emergency again? Yes, the situation a year ago and the current situation is different. A year ago covid, now war in Ukraine. However, an emergency is still an emergency. He's always the same. Just as special. It allows the government to do the same. Public contracts without tenders, prohibitions and orders at will and so on. There is no way that government officials' claims that the emergency situation of Czech citizens will not be affected will stand. It's a completely misguided statement. When we were discussing an extension of the emergency two months ago, at the end of March, there was a completely real problem of unpaid overtime with police officers. We had reports of how the emergency situation in the police force was abused, how police officers were ordered to serve so-called green hours, when this service was free of charge under emergency conditions. Under normal circumstances, a service that is related to an emergency situation and which police officers and firefighters perform for free can be understood. Besides, the cops never complained about that. However, the problem was that, for example, the Head of the Regional Police Directorate in Prague, according to our information, ordered overtime, but not only overtime, but also the proper performance of the service in green hours, although it had nothing to do with the emergency situation or crisis in Ukraine. I will give an example of a letter from a police officer who received Members in their e-mail boxes. Police officers were led to measures to ensure public order at sporting events - hockey, football and others - or to various social events such as the poker tournament in one luxurious Prague hotel, or to the proper service to perform their duties within the department, which is a common activity, but the service was not paid to them and was once again classified into green hours. This is also due to the fact that the management of the Police of the Czech Republic has not been able to ensure adequate personnel status in the long term. And let me say again, these measures have nothing to do with the service under which the emergency is ordered, and yet the service to the police has not been paid. Although Minister Rakušan promised to correct the issue of unpaid overtime with police officers and firefighters. In his letter to the police and firefighters at the time, he wrote - I quote: "It is quite appropriate to assure you that I am prepared to give a proper financial assessment of the performance of your service. I don't want you to do part of your service for free. Overtime, which you had to work under emergency conditions, is why you get paid in the form of extraordinary rewards. It will not be a flat but targeted reward depending on how many hours of free overtime you have served during the emergency situation. It's a fair solution. And what matters to me is that the well-deserved reward is given to those of you who, beyond their working hours, mostly provided our safety and helped especially women and children expelled from their homes. I also realize that the problem of overtime during the emergency situation must be dealt with systemically in the future. That is why this issue will also be addressed by my appointed working group, which, in cooperation with representatives of police officers and firefighters, will address issues relating to security forces." End of quote. But what is not clear from this communication is whether it concerns only overtime related to emergency status or any overtime, i.e. overtime with emergency status unrelated, which is also the example of ensuring sports matches or card games in a luxury hotel. Of course, every police officer is aware that there is an emergency at times when there is a need to bite and help beyond the law. However, I do not consider sports matches and playing cards to be an emergency in the hotel, and therefore I do not see the only reason why members of the Security Corps such as the Police of the Czech Republic should be so humiliated and essentially abused. Finally, allow me to mention, for the sake of interest, how Canada has dealt with extraordinary situations in recent years. The emergency situation that Canada enacted in 1988 was first applied not to covid, not to pandemics, but only recently, when hundreds and hundreds of trucks, their drivers and other protesters completely crippled the operation of large cities and particularly the capital city of Ottawa. And it didn't happen until two years after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Thus, while we in the Czech Republic went from emergency to emergency, Canada did not use this emergency at all. Plus, she never used it before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Marian Jurečka is now registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Good evening, Madam President, colleagues. I think I'm gonna follow up on what my previous speaker here said, who, like, asked what the government needs an emergency now, what we need it for in the Czech Republic, and put a comparison here with the state of emergency in a period of two years of covid. I think that perhaps anyone who has read the justification that has been delivered to the Members and Members, and who understands the context of the written text and its content, I think he has understood the huge difference. [[19.00 hours]] At that time, situations of emergency in the time of the covideo under previous governments limited the personal freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic and the business environment in an absolutely fundamental way. This state of emergency, with which the government of Petr Fiala comes, has clear, concrete, reasonable, meaningful reasons, I will return to them, but do not limit - again I say: it does not restrict - one single citizen of the Czech Republic, it does not restrict any business entity, freedom of business, income from business of any business entity of the Czech Republic. I think it is quite obvious when we look at the comparison - the emergencies declared by the government of Andrej Babiš during the time of the covid and the current situation in which we are now. This justification, when summing it up in very simple basal matters, concerns, for example, the use of an emergency situation following a government decision, for example, simplifying certain types of administrative procedures, which leads, for example, to the fact that the employment office can do some steps more easily for Czech citizens - I note, for Czech citizens - and it may not have that kind of staff capacity. It is in favour, this measure, of a Czech citizen who comes to the employment office, and it is nothing that would affect him negatively. In this reasoning is in principle a very similar justification for the agendas of the Ministry of the Interior, again, it does not affect any Czech citizen in any negative way. And there is one justification that we need until we can approve the so-called Lex Ukraine, energy without Putin in June, so we have one government measure that the Minister of Industry and Trade is imposing on companies in terms of filling gas storage capacity. If we want to have maximum gas storage in the autumn for Czech households and Czech companies, this is the last more than a month on the basis of this measure, which is based on the declared emergency. If someone is questioning it and wants to cancel it now and not extend it until we put it into the law because it doesn't know this today's energy law, it will actually loosen up for those companies and they will be able to stop fulfilling it and they will be able to deal with the gas according to their capabilities and their liking. So that's another rational reason why an emergency is being declared here now, and why the government is coming and saying: we would still like to ask the House to extend that 30 days, in the meantime we will make this legislative adjustment so that we no longer have to tie it to the declared emergency. I think that I have described quite simple, meaningful steps here, why an extension of the emergency situation is required, which I repeat again, does not adversely affect any citizen of the Czech Republic, any household, any entrepreneur, not only the government, but also the regions, cities and municipalities of some degree of flexibility in response to the refugee crisis that we have here in the Czech Republic with regard to the war, Putinův's war in Ukraine. I would say a few more things here, because there were some things that were going on about the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I think it is important to mention that the process of aid and adaptation is doing very well compared to other countries in Central and Eastern Europe facing the greatest challenge, and to date we have over 53,000 people who have come to the Czech Republic in the last two and a half months who are working. Over 53,000 people newly employed, more than a thousand people increase each day. These people pay contributions to the Czech system, they are duly registered here and contribute to the common budget of public finances. At the same time, they fill jobs that have been vacant for quite a long time, do not take any citizen of the Czech Republic's work, unemployment is declining, and help increase the potential of the Czech economy and the performance of the Czech economy. So it is clearly a positive step in this situation where these people are able to engage the Czech labour market. These people can take care of themselves after that, they don't get paid for humanitarian benefits. We are also running educational activities so that these people can also use their professional qualifications, their education, so that they do not just do some jobs of ancillary character. Again, it has a positive impact, for example, on the health sector, on the social services sector, which, thanks to the fact that these personnel capacities are coming to the labour market, become somewhat more accessible in situations, in regions and in places where, for example, these people, caregivers were desperately absent. So these are other things that need to be understood in the context of the situation in which we are, and in the potential that can be used positively not only for the public finances of the Czech Republic in the medium and long term, but also for us citizens in terms of accessibility, quality and provision of certain services that we have been dealing with here for years that we do not have people who would carry out this activity. As far as the next steps we are taking are concerned, today we are also trying to find ways to establish positive relocation principles, so that people who are today, and incoming from Ukraine, war refugees, here in Prague, in Central Bohemia, and even in some cities where their population is higher, so that we can get them to regions and places where we have free jobs, we have free accommodation capacities and there is room for these people to find a place for their children in schools and preschool facilities. It's all running. I think we have also responded very well in the sense that we reacted very operationally for the first two and a half months, quickly, our system was able to provide people with the safety of the Czech Republic, thanks to the citizens of the Czech Republic it was possible to provide a roof over their heads, to which we set the conditions of the social system so that we could pay a humanitarian benefit of CZK 5 000. Yesterday, the government decided to tighten the conditions of this form of assistance so that we could really see that whoever asks for this support and wants it paid, is the war refugee who is in the Czech Republic, and for those who will come to the territory of the Czech Republic, we clearly say that if these people do not live in a solidarity home or in a nearby home or accommodation that they will ensure and report clearly the address of the stay where we can check it, so if these people refuse a second option, where we can offer them free accommodation through KACPU, providing them with food and essential hygiene needs, and they also refuse this option, they will not receive 5 000 CZK of humanitarian benefits because they have accommodation, food and basic hygiene needs as material supplies. So we are clearly saying, and it is also a message on the outside, but at the same time a message to Czech society, this government responds to the development of the situation, responds to it in time, and can adjust the system so that it really corresponds to the adequacy of the situation in which we are now in. So I think that the adjustments that we are preparing as part of the solidarity contribution, which, in turn, is aimed at Czech households, are also the adjustments that are rational, in agreement with the terrain, with NGOs, where we are also preparing the adjustment of the differentiation of those rates within the solidarity contribution. At the same time, close cooperation is ongoing with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in Ukraine, closer cooperation with the Ukrainian Embassy, so that we can take care of children who come to the territory of the Czech Republic really transparently and safely, not children who would have their legal representative and escort here, so that we can take care of these children either in our current care of homes or, for example, in cooperation with foster families. So, even these commitments, which require us not only our law, international law, but also cooperation with the Ukrainian party, we try very honestly and also to fulfil. I think these are probably the most important things that we have now been dealing with, which we are responding to, and at the same time I have also made clear in the introduction the particular reasons why the government is coming, as the Prime Minister said, last time with the request for an extension of the emergency, so that we can take some legislative steps that we can then implement so that we no longer have to use the Institute of Emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. And another logged in... priority right. Madam President, please. Furthermore, there is a duly signed-up Member. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In response to Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I will have Marian Jurečka react afterwards to my colleague Aleš Juchelka, who is our shadow minister of labour, so he will certainly say it more comprehensively. I say frankly, today came Lex Ukraine and we're taking a positive stand at the club. Of course, our experts are discussing it now, studying and so on. We don't make any problems. That means I think it could have been here x-times, and it could have been approved in some accelerated process. So I just don't think that's the point. The argument I admit is the one the governor told us, and that's the problem with housing and so on. And you know, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, that we can't compare the covid emergency and this is impossible. I don't think we're gonna feel bad about this place anymore, it's beneath us, but I guess we couldn't have done anything else when we were fighting an invisible enemy that we didn't know where he was gonna do it, we didn't have vaccines, and so on. So please don't compare. And you know, you've already left us, that's okay. You know that, in theory, you could also interfere with citizens' rights, because the emergency situation just makes it possible. But that's why I didn't go out right now. I went because when we discussed it at the club today, as a very strong argument we took that which my colleague Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the House, talked about in part here, and that is that the government needs an emergency state, among other things, to complement faster gas reservoirs, if I say so well, and their storage and so on. In the end, this is something that we have long been calling on the government to do, so we acknowledge this argument. However, I miss the Minister of Industry and Trade here all day today. If one of the demands of this government to extend the emergency situation is also very strong, it is one paragraph of paragraph four of the proposal, so I would expect it to be there, that it will defend, explain, or respond to the Vice-President of the House of Karel Havlíček. I don't see him, so I don't know if anyone's gonna take his place in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. That's what made this request, if I understand correctly, for Mr. Finance Minister's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u50	Thanks for the word. The Minister of Industry and Trade is excused for business reasons. I think he'll be back. At the moment, he is at a meeting with the ambassadors not only of the Member States of the European Union. I think it's understandable. Whoever wants to understand, who doesn't want to, is pretended not to understand. As you know, in these days and in recent weeks, the Czech Republic is filling reservoirs at a record pace. To date, it was about 43 percent, about 1.5 billion cc's. We are doing this, among other things, because the Minister of Industry and Trade has, within the scope of his competence, issued an emergency measure ordering gas containers to be filled. Since this emergency measure can only apply in an emergency, it is a legitimate reason, or one of the reasons, to ask the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency situation. At the same time, he is working intensively on the legislative change that will soon arrive in the Chamber of Deputies that, at the moment we bring this power into the law, we will not have to use the emergency situation to order the filling of magazines. I think that's quite clear, legitimate. I don't know what's wrong with it or what else we should say about it. I think it is our common interest for the stock exchanges to be filled as soon as possible, because the risks of supply restrictions simply exist. We all wish it didn't happen, but the risks are real and we're taking steps to make it happen. Since April 1, when the Minister called for a meeting of the crisis staff on gas, it has been possible to add about one billion cc's of gas, which is not enough, which is certainly not enough. I understand that, and I had to get my bearings in this, too, that in order to achieve that goal, you can't do it day by day. There are technical parameters of those bins, you have the maximum daily capacity to push it in, and we can talk about that for quite a long time. But I do not think that anyone in the Chamber of Deputies, and one of which club would be opposed to this, would be intent on filling gas reservoirs as quickly as possible. And the extraordinary measure of the Minister of Industry and Trade is one, the only instrument at this time in our legislative situation, when it can be done, and can only be used for the duration of the emergency. That is why, in this accelerated regime, we are preparing to amend the law with which we will come to the Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that we will agree on the necessary changes, because this is not a political contest over the amount of taxes, the functioning of the social or health system, it is about the energy security of our state. I couldn't do it for a long time today, calculate what you've slept in, how bad the Czech Republic is compared to other Member States that haven't slept and have taken ongoing measures. These measures are not short-term, they are at least medium-term in nature, and when we are at a point zero, we must also choose non-traditional routes as extraordinary measures or changes to the law, so that we can ensure enough gas not only for our households - at this point I can say that it is secured for the next winter for households - but especially for the Czech industry, because the Czech industry simply needs gas. Without that, there would be major blackouts, and I think we're taking steps... It's understandable that we don't report those steps ahead. Once again, whoever wants to understand. Every state activity in this area is price-setting. This means premature disclosure of information, for example, if we buy, where we buy, what is interest is simply price-setting, but unfortunately only in one direction. It never lowers the price. It always increases the price. Yes, if we were selling, it might cut the price, but we don't need it. We need to build infrastructure and buy strategic raw materials. So I'm asking for some understanding here. I think the moment we take a step, we're ready to explain it, defend it, put up with arguments, and have a debate about whether it couldn't have been done differently, or better, or more efficiently. I am convinced that we are not, that we are taking care of the proper economy and that we are doing and taking the steps that the current energy market situation simply requires. We understand the problems with energy prices. But unfortunately, the situation is not just me, but many did not believe that we would ever get into it. We first have to ensure that the gas is first staged and, unfortunately, only in the second stage is the price. Because if there's a dramatic gas shortage, the price question won't be that important. I know it's not a very happy statement, but it's reality. And we have committed ourselves to informing openly about the problems that exist. So please also understand our opposition that we do not publish the details of the negotiations that are taking place because it would be to the detriment of the state. And believe us, you don't have to believe that we're doing everything we can. When you look objectively at the results of the Prime Minister's negotiations with his key partners in the surrounding countries, whether Poland, Germany or Austria, you see a huge shift and a huge willingness to help us solve these issues. Among other things, the fact that we have managed to negotiate quite quickly the necessary exemption from the oil embargo under consideration is also part of the fact that the Prime Minister communicates with his counterparts, is able to make proper arguments, not threaten anyone and diplomatically achieve excellent results. It's just reality. Some other time we can shine a light on it and point out which projects did not have priority, which projects and which ideas were not implemented, and then we can rightly ask why. [[19.20 hours]] We have not forgotten, although we do not remind it every day like you, we have not forgotten the efforts of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Karel Havlíček, at all costs, to allow the Rus and the Číňan to participate in the tender. How many times have we heard that this is for competitive reasons? I remember well the sentences you said when to our question, if you really believe that these regimes will give us a fair market price, or are able to make a dumping price so that they have a proper political leverage to make the Czech Republic fit some of their wishes, so you pretended that these are market companies, standard companies that are clearly all they care about is the market environment and fair trade relations. We weren't that naive. Let us be frank, the fact that Rus and Číňan were expelled during the previous government was not the result of the strategic reflection of the then government parties, but of the fact that after the Vrbětice case was published they had nothing else to do. We wanted it long before that. And it wasn't us who defended the interests of Russian and Chinese state companies here. No way. It was not us who dramatically increased the Czech Republic's dependence on Russian gas by tens of percent. So please, when the Minister of Industry and Trade fulfills his duties and is at a meeting with the ambassadors, where, among other things, the de facto monothematic subject of negotiations in the last days and weeks, and it will be in the coming days and weeks, in the coming months, the question of energy self-sufficiency, the solidarity of Europe in the field of energy, please do not criticise him for not being present at the moment. The reason given in the application is very clear, it's not questionable if you don't want to, and I don't believe in not filling the bins so that we don't make supplies for the next month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Minister, and now with priority rights again, Madam President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will be brief, because I am sure my fellow Vice-President Karel Havlíček will react much more fully. Mr. Finance Minister, we didn't call an emergency meeting. That means you're supposed to align terms with the government coalition. And if you're going to have an emergency meeting where you want to extend the emergency for another 30 days, when you've had 89 days, you're just supposed to tune up your programs and insist, or we'd like you to do it next time, so that key ministers sit here. And if the Minister of Industry and Trade is simply asking here, one of the points in this request is the purchase of gas, and we understand it, but I say there's one sentence. The measures of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the field of energy issued pursuant to § 12 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) a crisis law following the Government's resolution on the security of gas storage and so on. We've been calling you to do this for a long time, so you can just fill the bins. [[Laughter and disapproval of Minister Stanjura.]] I see there's something funny about this, I'm sure it's not me, so we're glad you're responding, but I'd expect the minister to be here. The fact that he has another program, yes, I understand, I was also a secretary, and it wasn't easy, but you're supposed to organize it. Your government coalition, or your representatives, your chair of the Chamber of Deputies, has called this meeting. So that's it. We wanted him to come out here briefly, to say something in the context of what he can tell us. Nothing more, nothing less. We didn't attack somehow. That's parliamentary control, you know, Minister? It's parliamentary control! Nothing else, nothing less. And I'm sure my colleague Karel Havlíček will complete the rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. And before the Vice-President runs out, I'm gonna read an apology that's been waiting for a long time. Mr Marek Novák apologizes between 18.30 and midnight for family reasons. Now, please, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u54	Yes, thank you. Have a nice evening, everybody. I dare say that the fact that the emergency situation will be extended, among other things, because it has to be purchased or supplied with gas in storage tanks is quite a relevant argument. I've already said it here in my original performance that at the moment I understand if it's to be done quickly, it's to be done through auctions, through NET4GAS. If they're to be ordered, we need some kind of vehicle, some kind of tool, and most likely, it'll actually go faster through the emergency situation. So if I take it to the scales and I look at what's less evil, like I'm convinced that the emergency situation at this point is no longer necessary, but rather than endangering the rate of refilling into the bins today, it's better to extend it and try to tighten up those auctions in the next few weeks and add it to the bins. At the same time, I also said that it was caught at the last minute, because it could have started a little earlier. We have pointed out from the beginning of March that the bins are emptying and that this needs to be done actively. The Variant was more, whether through the Material Reserves Administration, which is not the most ideal tool, but I agree that better something than nothing, or through the motivation of traders. The answer was clear at the time: we're saving. And two: we will wait for the European Union, we will use common stocks. Only after great pressure from the public, the media, the opposition started, and I agree with that, from the beginning of April plus minus something to do. And the result is that they really complement each other today, or they ensure a complement via individual traders at a pretty decent level. We were handing over magazines that, of course, weren't ours, but there was gas at 86 percent. It was not at the time of the handover, to be exact, it was at the beginning of the season, which corresponds to what was everywhere in Europe, about 80 percent. The European Union also recommended it. Nobody blames anyone for emptying their storage tanks over the winter, so it's nonsense to be refilled in the winter, because it can't be done. It's technologically impossible. So it's only waiting when there's not enough supplies, and then it's either adding up or waiting for the next season. Logically, every year was always waiting for every season, which made sense because there was no wartime. In this case, in my opinion, it should have started earlier. As far as security is concerned, we could have a separate meeting, and we could discuss it for a long time, what anyone is saying, and we could see how the Temelín tender took place between 2010 and 2013, when Westinghouse and Rosatom set foot in the finals of the Temelín tender. And we weren't blaming anyone back then because it was quite factually justified that it was pushing the price back then. And, yes, in the end, Westinghouse was recognized by the winner, probably right back then, even though France was still there, it went a bit wrong back then, but that's the second thing, but Rosatom was definitely there in the finals. We didn't even let Rosatom into the tender after all. But yes, we acknowledge that we wanted a competitive environment, and we wanted the price to go down. Finally, on all the committees for the core, or whatever it was called at the time, it was discussed and it was only at the last minute that the opinion changed. After Vrbětice, yes, given the facts that were, we didn't even put Rosatom in the so-called security assessment. This has all been discussed with the state security forces. This was all agreed by the Security Council of the State. And as far as the gas is concerned, we could go into the longer past there, and we could look at who was behind it when it was privatized. First they were refineries, then they were gas pipelines, but the result is that we don't own a screw in the gas. First, gas pipelines, or gas transport, were privatized, which is in the hands of a multinational company, that was in the year, if I'm not mistaken, 2002. As far as distribution is concerned, it is in the hands of three entities, all transnational entities. As far as suppliers are concerned, this is also all in the hands of commercial entities. There's more than one. In the Czech Republic, it has not been decided for 20 years how much gas we will buy, how much it will be sold for, in the Czech Republic it does not decide in the sense of the state whether gas will be taken like this or not. To put it simply, the gas is taken through the pipes in Germany and there mouths the pipes especially Russian. [[19.30 hours]] And who in Europe was behind Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2? I didn't see the opposition or the coalition at the time, it doesn't matter, it's against it. I hadn't noticed that we would have protested back then - our previous governments, our previous governments, before the past governments - when Nabucco was abolished or when Turkish Stream was released, which is Russia's gas again. Europe has created, especially Central and Eastern, a fundamental dependence on Russian gas. That's reality. And since the pipes from Germany lead to us - the other leads from Slovakia, but there goes the minimum of the gas, but that is where Jamal, the Nord Stream estuary, or the Norwegian gas - so offer that the mixture of the gas will be especially Russian. Although no one can ever confirm it 100%, but it's very, very likely. And the whole story of a Polish storek that could have been built here, and the Polák rejected it at the last minute for pragmatic reasons because they didn't believe in LGN because it was extremely expensive and no one wanted to invest in it because it would never have come back to him, and they'd rather bet on the baltic branch, that is reality despite the fact that we were behind the European Union's money back then. Unfortunately, we are a Central European state and we do not determine gas independence. This is not the fault of this government or our government or the previous government. The only thing we can discuss is whether it was appropriate when gas pipelines were privatized in 2002 - which I do not question the price, which was over 100 billion at the time, but it is true that if we kept a certain control stake there, as they did in Italy, France, Spain, or Belgium, we would be breathing a little better today. But I don't think that's how we're gonna take another gas mix. That's technically impossible. Just look at the infrastructure of gas pipelines in Europe and everyone will realize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. At this point, I am not registering anyone for a priority debate. If so, we will continue to apply properly to the general debate. So now the envoy of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will appear and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, I have read this week how they perceive the state aid expressed by the Ministry of Regional Development in Ukraine to expand the capacity of the city of Semily. In Semily they wanted to use the hotel Centrum in the vicinity of the cultural centre Golf, which the town hall bought three years ago, and so far it has no use for the building. They have already invested half a million crowns in the preparation of their own accommodation. It was necessary to make revisions, but also to paint them. The city management also wanted to use the subsidies from the Ministry of Regional Development programme for necessary modifications. Turns out he can't reach them. The terms of the program are too strict and the city is unable to meet them. They can't ask for subsidies. According to Mayor Lena Mlejnková, the hotel could find a temporary home of up to 50 refugees, and no one can stay there now. In view of the information in the press, I began to wonder what the government's assistance with subsidies for accommodation in the Moravian-Silesian Region, namely in Ostrava, looks like. The city of Ostrava has submitted a series of applications for subsidies for 84 apartments for 288 people, with total costs of more than CZK 41 million. They submitted requests to continue analysing the situation and communicating with the Ministry of Regional Development regarding the conditions of the subsidy. The main problem is that Ostrava sees that the vast majority of the conditions are unclear, and therefore there is a risk of future malfunction of the whole process as well as a fundamental economic disadvantage. The city of Ostrava clearly supports Ukrainian refugees, but at the same time they believe that if refugees are to remain in place for longer time, they must integrate into the work and social system. This cannot be done under a permanent social support scheme without the need for its own involvement. The program is now set up, or it appears to the city's representatives as impeccable. The basic problems they see in Ostrava - if you did not know, the third largest city in the Czech Republic. Short period of implementation of the project, only until 30. 11. 2022. Some cities are unable to realize reconstruction unless they have already started preparation, which is not the main problem of Ostrava. Furthermore, in what situation the Regional Assistance Centre can help Ukraine, I will also use the KACPU component, clearly declaring to the beneficiaries the need for further use of emergency accommodation. The CACPU wants to make decisions, but the CACPU is not a stable institutional form and cannot be guaranteed its sustainability in the system for a period of five years of sustainability. At the same time, there is no methodological guidance. Ostrava is in contact with KACPU. And they don't have any instructions or information about the program outside of the city of Ostrava, which means they don't have any information from the state. It is also unclear whether a family from the target group must release the apartment after three months of emergency accommodation for another family from the target group, again for emergency accommodation for three months, if required by the KACPU. The aim of Ostrava is mainly to stabilize families fleeing from Russia's aggression and their return to normal life: finding work, paying rent and so on, it is staying in the accommodation. No one can imagine the constant migration of people after three months, which will only make their social situation worse. Furthermore, emergency accommodation is usually provided for three months. Can cities therefore require rent after three months of temporary protection if KACPU does not need accommodation for further emergency accommodation? What is meant by the word usually? So, according to practice, what is the time during which emergency accommodation is provided? Once again, this is a lack of clarity. The solution is not destabilization or accommodation free of charge for years; on the contrary, it would generate social inequality, tension due to hatred. Another of the ambiguities is what happens with the accommodated if KACPU no longer requires emergency accommodation, but after some time there will be another need again. Example: After one year KACPU will say that it no longer needs emergency accommodation, the city will offer accommodation for example to seniors, two months later the situation will change - will the senior have to move? Thus, summarily: Sustainability in the short-term hostel regime for five years is a dysfunctional and economically and socially senseless system for the city. If the conditions are not clarified, the city will have difficulty accepting the subsidy. And all I can say is that this is going to be about most of the cities. And, as Mrs Dostálová has already said, much money is not spent on this programme. Finally, I would like to thank the deputy mayor of Ostrava Zuzana Bajgarová for the documents that I have mentioned and quoted here. Ladies and gentlemen, on a particular case, I have taken the liberty of demonstrating that even an emergency situation does not lead to a better consideration and assessment of the situation. Just as it happened with the registration, or rather the absence of persons who are trying to help the state. It would be advisable to better define the objectives and means of assistance. Any assistance is an effective aid if directed targeted and the funds are used as efficiently as possible. Emergency status isn't self-saving. However, I also look forward to the need to fill gas reservoirs for a short-term extension of the emergency state by a maximum of 14 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Anyway, Madame, I take it this is not a proposal, you are merely inclined to take a stand. Well, I'll wait for this proposal to come out. Okay, thank you. That is why I asked the honourable Member whether it was a regular proposal, she said only that she was leaning towards the view of 14 days. Let's keep going. In that case, Mr Aleš Juchelka is now registered. And I give you my word with this, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I think that tonight, Minister Rakušan will mumble the sentence that everyone here repeats over and over that the emergency is a failure of the government and that he will not sleep well tonight and that he will tell him his counterpart: please, come to your senses, say nothing in your sleep, especially that it is a failure of the government. Anyway, I'm not gonna say it again. That's the first point. The second is that as the priority rights still work here, and the rest of us ordinary Members have no chance to get out, and then you're all here, including us as the opposition and you as the coalition, the information, and it's always making me get out of my chair and say something, so I think we're a little bit discriminated by our fellow Members. Well, that's just about the edge. I always like the performance of Secretary of Defense Černochová here, who always comes out here and tells some truth as such, and says it in such a semi-aggressive way and says: Ministry of Industry and Trade - selection procedure zero, Ministry of Culture - selection procedure zero. I think it's half true, of course, but it's half demagogy, because it's not. Because there's some cost here with everything we're dealing with here today, which is simply what they are. They are not through selection procedures, but even here in this explanatory report that you have presented to us, they must - and I will vote to prolong the emergency situation just because the gas reservoirs have to be filled. And that was already worth it, and I don't know who it is, but probably the Ministry of Industry and Trade, CZK 8 billion, as we learned from the mouth of the Minister of Industry and Trade of Síkela. We would also like to ask him about the next plan and the next financial plan. But unfortunately, he's not here and he's not answering our questions, and he doesn't want to, but he's also asking us to extend the emergency. So the fact that in some way it makes the atmosphere here, that it doesn't actually cost anything, that's not true. It's not true. We have the Ministry of Industry and Trade and 8 billion crowns. I was on the Social Policy Committee yesterday and it was very interesting because I found out that this government is actually a little gambler with different numbers. So first of all, we asked how many refugees are here according to the registry, where individual refugees are registered. We were told there were 346,000 people here yesterday. So logically I asked - because this is a difference of 75 per cent or 80 - how is it that there is only 200 000 here according to what the Interior Minister Vítek Moravec said in Questions Václav Rakušan. So I figured, that's the big difference plus minus 140,000 refugees. I don't know. His two deputys denied it. They said it's really just like estimates and that there's just 346,000 registered refugees. I just want to say that if we don't tell the truth about the microphone, how much there is, or that we just don't know, we're just increasing the tension in society. It doesn't cost anything, we only have 200,000 refugees here, not 346, probably. Then Deputy Minister Merhautová of MPSV said that we have 1,800 beds in accommodation facilities, such as senior homes. So we ask - it's not possible, we're always on the edge of capacity and everyone's waiting for waiting lists? Then it comes out again that it's just an estimate, but the number is actually already out. So the only question I asked specifically was how much it actually cost at this point. So if we follow the flow of money, we'll actually know how it's handled. Of course, we all voted for lex Ukraine here. It's okay. We didn't even know how it was going to work at the beginning, if it was 5,000 or 1,000, or if it was going to be 10,000. We just put five on the rehearsal. At this point, there's probably gonna be an amendment after the experience. I want to ask about the experience, because after some experience, we're doing the novel. I'm interested in the experience and the feedback from the very organs that it is and why we're going to do the novel. So at this time, CZK 2,625 million was paid for the humanitarian contribution, CZK 270 million was paid for emergency immediate assistance and CZK 190 million was paid for the solidarity contribution to the accommodation. These are the facts that were communicated to us yesterday on the Social Policy Committee. So not zero at the moment, but three billion, Madam Secretary. If we look at the other costs - and I'm not saying that we shouldn't pay it at all, but that it doesn't happen here after the Minister says tender procedure zero, zero, zero - who's going to pay for everything, for example, the tent town in Vysočany? Does that mean it was built just like that, the tents, and there's just the mobile bathrooms, and there's just the food coming in at no expense? Of course not, it all applies to municipalities or regions or the capital city of Prague. And this state hasn't given a crown to the regions yet. And that has been the beginning of the refugee crisis since the end of February. It just seems to me that this government is still a little gambler with these numbers, trying to mash things up pink and de facto isn't simply telling us the factual truth as it is, because it's trying to get information on TV, not about how many registered people we have here, but still some estimates. Estimates on the number of places in social services and estimates, for example, on how many refugees we actually have here. But if we don't have the single and clear numbers, then how are we supposed to prepare for the other things? What's the other vision? Why don't we have the refugee strategy that you're promising us so badly here, and you gave us some four dirty papers last week on our tables that were different font sizes and different colors? What's that? I couldn't even read it, how small the tables were, because it was just kind of banged up and shoved in a hurry! [[He's talking more and more strongly.]] And we want it, and it was even a resolution here in this Chamber of Deputies that there should be a refugee strategy here by some date, and we don't have it! But what you're saying here is that we've spent almost nothing and that we have 75 percent less refugees here. [[Attention from the diaper to the excessive noisy of speech.]] Okay. I'll keep going, yes. And I will not repeat those words that the emergency is the failure of this government. Minister Jurečka here said and mentioned that if the amendment of the Lex Ukraine was to be made, other countries are also facing the high burden of the refugees. We know that there are several times as many in Poland, for example. That's where it counts in units of millions, but there's no emergency. They do not have an emergency situation in Hungary and they do not have one in Slovakia either. At the same time, they are facing exactly the same strain of refugees as we are. And we need that emergency. We probably just need it for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to fill up the magazine. Otherwise, I can't imagine why. Because if we pay all the things we promised to the captains and ammunition, then everything will actually be okay and we can continue without any emergency. But since you just need the emergency to pay for tents, food, and mobile toilets, well, of course, and we have to say it straight here, do you need to extend it for, like, another 30, 60 days? Why not 14 days? I'm just interested in the facts. Then he said there was some sort of relocation scheme for the refugees. That was said about half an hour ago by Minister Jurečka. What does that mean, the relocation scheme? How do you want to do that? You're in agreement with the governor, you're in agreement with the municipalities, you're in agreement with those people who should somehow go to those places they don't want to go? At the beginning of the refugee crisis, it seemed that the train had ended in Bohumín, there had been first relief aid, people took what they needed, ate, drank, went to the accommodation facility and were not there within four days, because naturally - and I would not have done it differently - they called their friends and relatives who are already in Europe and started to follow them. So I'm wondering how you're going to do this relocation scheme, how you're going to force these people, and how you're going to deal with the authorities, and how much it's going to cost. I'm also interested in how you want to motivate these people. [[19.50 hours]] Of course, the noble words were said here about the need to place those refugees where the educational capacities, the kindergartens, the preschool facilities where the children of these refugees would be taken away from the schools. Ha! Like us, we are not at all able to place - and I witnessed it because I rode with this high school kid - from September to freshman year at industrial school. We're just not. Because the directors here simply reject these people because they don't speak Czech, and they don't believe that they will learn Czech during the holidays, because they simply don't have the spare capacity, because of course the Czech students and those who finish elementary school have the priority, so maybe it will be done during the next wave, after some of the primary schools may fall out, but at that point you can't drive those people there, that means that you'll probably bring a bus, probably according to Mrs. Černochová's mouth, also free of charge, not through the tender procedure - that's zero, right? [[The secretary is responding off the microphone.]] What nonsense? I beg you, Mrs. Černochová, not to speak to me at this moment. And I'm going to ask President Bartoška to make the Minister a little bit of a mess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u59	Ambassador, I'm not gonna mess with anybody, I'm gonna set up my own order. Anyway, more people responded to you during your speech - and so far you haven't responded. [[- Then I beg you to arrange it!]] Okay. I'll tighten up my procedure. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. But I'm coming to a complete conclusion. Simply, it doesn't cost a lot of zero, competitions aren't really done on ministries, because they're not done in an emergency. We need a state of emergency to complete the gas reservoirs, which was confirmed here by Minister Síkel, Minister Stanjura, something that cost us, we already know, about CZK 3 billion. And I ask very much at the end of this speech of this government not to gamble with numbers to tell the truth, as it always is, to say that if they don't know, they just don't know, and thereby reduce the tension in society that we all feel so horribly at the moment, and they all write to us. So please tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Jana Černochová is now reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would recommend to Mr Juchelek to play what I said here. I didn't respond at all to any purchases and tent towns, as he misconceived here all the time, I responded to a colleague from the SPD who said that we had an emergency situation so that we would abuse the Public Procurement Act in an emergency and do contracts without tenders. That was said here, and I responded by not doing anything like that at the Ministry of Defence, that the contracts are zero abused in an emergency state, that we are issuing selection procedures in a standard manner. I have also commented on other departments that were previously commented by the Minister of the Interior, Austrian. So, Mr Juchelka, play it back, and if you're just a man, you'll apologize to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. The rapporteur, Robert králíček, will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u64	I'm always unlucky to be performing either after Mr. Nacher or after Mr. Juchelek. And that's really hard. It's really hard to get ahead of yourself. And I just want to say that I feel discriminated against, too. I feel discriminated against for not having priority rights, and I feel discriminated against for always performing after Nacher with Juchelka. I'm just trying to calm the mood a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u65	I, Mr rapporteur, just to assure you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you may speak at any time during the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u66	I know, I just ran a little bit, but thanks to Mr. Nacher again, yes. I'm just trying to calm down the exciting atmosphere a little bit. I would only like to respond to the beginning of my short speech to Minister Jurečka and Minister Stanjura. It has been said several times that we should actually support the emergency situation, because we will encourage the purchase of gas in storage tanks, and we actually have to want and we need to want our citizens to have gas. That is certainly without debate, but in this context, I would ask both ministers if they did not feel the same way when we asked for an extension of the emergency situation, for example, due to overcrowded hospitals, because hospital staff fell on their mouths, because we wanted to call on the army and the medics so that they could take care of the sick and not die. So if they didn't feel the responsibility from this context, and they didn't vote for the emergency situation. And they didn't vote. They never voted for an emergency, whereas now I would say that even part of the club is willing to support the emergency. However, I mainly wanted to talk about the fact that there has been quite a lot of criticism from the beginning at the Ministry of the Interior, at registering refugees, at the operation, at the figures. And I understand that, but I kind of missed using digitalization, using digitalization tools to do better. In the meantime, I have read on publicly available portals criticism of the small use of digitalization that there may be a lack of a single portal, something like a covid portal where refugees could find aggregate information and use some eGovernment tools, communication with authorities and so on. Various databases are missing, central information on accommodation capacities and other things is missing. I know some of them are getting ready. But on the other hand, if I take it that we spent two days in Hradec Králové at the ISSS conference, where only government representatives were on the opening stage, and in most of our fellow pirát, who are responsible for digitization, and we listened to how they actually wanted to transform the digitalization, we listened to how nothing was done in the last parliamentary term, that they were the only ones who came up with the Digital Service Act, that they were the only ones who were actually promoting digitalization, so I'm asking what they did in those 88 days in digitalisation? If it wouldn't be better than kicking over the Ministry of the Interior, rather than kicking over state-owned businesses, rather than setting up new jobs at the Office of the Government, how these instruments can help precisely in the refugee crisis so that we can better manage the crisis so that we can better share the data so that the Minister can have a job far easier than he has, and then we didn't have to find relatively difficult information about refugees, how many of them are there, where they are, what they have jobs and so on and so on and so on. These are things that we have already discussed on 3 and 9 March on the Security Committee. So I also wanted to mention that rather than changing the law of competence than changing the Civil Service Act, rather than changing the law on public information systems, budgetary law and others that will need to be changed to transform digitalization according to the way the pirát imagine it, before spending hours and hours of time on it, not only in the House, but also in the various ministries, so I think it would be far more effective for the promotion of digitalisation not only to the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and for us to use the current capacities, on the one hand, of the main architect's department, NAKIT and others, to manage the refugee crisis together, and I would not revolutionize digitalisation. That was just a brief remark on how we use digitalization, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for your word. Now duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Eva Fialová. Mr Radek Koten will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hear self-consciousness from the mouth of the government, how they handle everything, how super they handle the crisis. I just want to point out that if it weren't for cities and municipalities and social workers in these communities, they wouldn't be able to brag like that. I would like to present how the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem, which is a regional city, has really not had information at the beginning how to deal with everything. The Department of Social Services of the City of Ústí nad Labem responded to the situation in Ukraine as soon as February 25, 2022. The central point was to be prepared from the position of the city to the arrival of an unpredictable number of persons and related necessary measures. The city's basic food funds were immediately secured, and clothing, hygiene and many other necessary items were available as part of the immediate announcement of the humanitarian collection. [[20.00 hours]] To cooperate without knowing whether they will have public health insurance or not, the EUC clinic has been contacted and medical care has been arranged for people from Ukraine free of charge. Cooperation has been established with the Labour Office, the Police of the Czech Republic and the non-profit sector. All the time, the public's attention has been placed when the city updates all the available information, including translation provision, and the creation of a network of all important bodies, institutions, in order to ensure that all information and competences are transferred without delay. The city provided its premises for opening the KACPU, immediately ensured the possibility of accommodation of incoming persons within its capacities, from the beginning organized regular meetings within critical infrastructure and intensively participated in all negotiations and coordination of this critical situation, where almost a month was the key coordinator of the whole process, when coordination from a higher position, this is from the regional office, came later. After providing initial needs, more intensive cooperation with non-profit organisations and other volunteers developed immediately. Representatives from the Education Department and specialists were involved in the process. Information was collected at the level of the entire ORP. In connection with the decline in the arrival of others, work has been intensified at the level of comprehensive social integration of persons who have received a visa and also wish to cooperate at a level other than a legal obligation. Currently, in cooperation with selected organisations, regular mapping of facilities and places where more people are accommodated is carried out, with the aim of setting up a collection-based system, including the employment or professions of individual refugees, evaluation and subsequent rescue of current needs, which over time significantly differ from the primary needs arising from the critical outcome of the conflict. At the same time, the city is in the position of the main coordinator of all activities relating to Ukrainian people, where the partial activities, activities and the subsequent involvement of other entities have been divided between several long-term non-profit organisations operating here, and they help the city with regular feedback on the current situation. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] All persons already have funding at this time, information on employment opportunities, or are already employed, professional medical care and all information on the availability of healthcare. They go to primary schools, kindergartens, currently have information about the registration of Ukrainian children, the possibility of completing Czech language courses, information about leisure activities. From the outset, the city has been working with the Regional Authority and the entire integrated rescue system, where the Regional Authority is actively carrying out intensive checks on accommodated persons in facilities requesting compensation for accommodated persons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u69	I apologize, Madame, for entering into your speech. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u70	I'm coming to a conclusion. Objectively, the position of the city of Ústí nad Labem and its employees as a result of the war conflict was unique despite the ignorance of the development of the situation and the fact that no one had to deal with the similar crisis so far, everything was handled in a unique way, as evidenced by the surrounding cities, which turned to the Department of Social Services with a request for advice, as well as the refugees who called workers across the Republic, even directly from Ukraine, when they all agreed to receive this contact and the employees of the Magistrate Ústí nad Labem are supposedly going to help them. [[unintelligible]] It shows that at the beginning there was just as much chaos, and that if the government can't thank the government, I think that in this situation it is not only my city in which I live, but many others, and I would like to thank all the mayors and all the people of the magistrates, social welfare, all the volunteers who are doing it and who have actually managed to cope with this crisis. Not this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, too, Madame. I will now ask Mr Radek Koten to speak and Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I've prepared a short tour of the past as part of the extension of the emergency. It is, I do not know whether it is a tweet or whether it is from Facebook, but the then ODS Chairman and the current Prime Minister of the Czech Republic wrote about this: The government must not abuse emergency conditions. An extension of the emergency situation? Only if the government gives reasons and says what measures it will implement at that time and if it is necessary for a short period of time. It is impossible to prolong an endless situation where the government has almost all the power and no one can control it. The crisis is serious, but we need to get back to normal and human freedom as soon as possible. - So it's April 1, 2020. I've listened very carefully to the debaters here. Of course, I also listened to the Minister of Finance Stanjura, through you, and there have been several such phrases that interest me, that is solidarity at European level, that the extension of the time has been negotiated since we will ambush Russian gas and Russian oil. However, thanks to the emergency situation, it was possible to purchase gas for CZK 37 per cubic metre, when Hungary buys the same gas on the basis of a bilateral agreement, but on the basis of a bilateral agreement, for CZK 6. This surprised me quite, because it is a six-fold sum, and so if the reservoirs are filled with this expensive gas, then consumers will, of course, pay it in the monthly advances and in the total consumption. That's logically clear. Unless the government wants to subsidize it. I was also interested in one of the information that appeared on the Internet portals, I think that either today or yesterday, and it said that RWE was selling its magazines and that there are already several interested parties. I wanted to ask if the government is counting on buying these magazines in the Czech Republic because, among other things, one company that owns the Russian oligarcha has an interest. So that would be exactly against everything that this government is declaring, if it were to let it buy the company that is co-owned by the Russian oligarch. So we would take gas from Germany, Russian gas, and the reservoirs in the Czech Republic would co-owner Russian oligarch. So that would be quite an interesting way to do that. So I won't delay it any longer, thank you for your attention, and I'm wondering how it's gonna turn out. I will definitely vote against extending the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, who is currently recently enrolled in the debate, will now speak with his contribution to the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, only three tiny glosses. As far as the number of refugees is concerned, it's logical that some of them are listed here, but that doesn't mean everyone's staying here. Therefore, logically, there can be a difference between those who have been registered and those who are physically in the Czech Republic, whether they return to their homes in Ukraine or whether they continue somewhere further to Western Europe. The second thing is that, for example, from Poland, Hungary or other countries, it is also necessary to monitor the conversion to the population. Yes, there are a million Ukrajinec in Poland, but also, if I'm not mistaken, the Polák are 38 million. So it is necessary to calculate not only absolute but also relative numbers. As far as the vote on the extension of the emergency situation in the pandemic is concerned, I can be confused, but as my colleague králíček spoke here, I think that KDU-ČSL has supported the emergency situation for a long time, although it was in opposition. And I think with one exception, I don't want to be wrong, I'd have to track it down, but I'm sure we've supported most of the extension. As for the fact that municipalities, regions and volunteers must have worked their own way, no doubt that's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u75	I apologize, Mr Member, but, as the number of Members and Members in the Chamber increased, the noise is increasing. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down... I beg you to keep your voice down! And please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are both in the municipalities and on the outskirts - most of us here are either municipal representatives or regional representatives, there are many mayors and mayors, there are members of regional councils, so of course we worked it out. And we actually worked it out on the local levels. Well, that's logical, because that's the work of municipal and regional councils. So the fact that they're doing their job, I'm sure it's necessary to thank you for that. But it's exactly the same as we've done a lot of things in the pandemic. And when somebody's shaving around here, I always think about how the past government has been shaving with the state of public finances that she wasn't responsible for, but the fact that the municipalities and regions have been doing well. So let's talk about what happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u77	Ambassador, thank you. I'm currently registering two priority rights. First... You're first, Minister. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have seen Members and Members, knowing that names are dropping, returning to the hall, so I will spoil their joy a little. But I didn't want to do the gentleman's deal with you here, the trick of me getting off with the final word without the possibility of a response from other Members and Members. So I guess I have to spoil a little joy for those who rushed into the O.R., and I feel that after my performance and the performance of Minister Síkela, the debate may continue for a while. So I'm gonna take it from the end of what we've registered here, and I'm gonna try to keep the noise and voice levels less intense than my colleague Juchelka, and I'm gonna try not to really scream here and just explain and take it fast. With my colleague Králíček, the insight is correct, I'm sure. We need digitization. NAKIT has an accurate assignment to program, we were assisted by Colonel Šnajdárek and Hump. Just the system of how IT products are created in the Czech Republic - and unfortunately now even in our government - is strange. The Šnajdárek programmed it for you, the Šnajdárek programmed it for us. And now we're handing it over to Nakita. That hasn't changed much. On the contrary, we are trying to find the system solutions, and NAKIT already has an accurate assignment on how to respond. But in general, I'm sure you're right. User applications and Ukrajinec who come to the Czech Republic, some information in the mobile phone and such things, that is certainly the way we want to go, and that system also offer them. As far as Mr Juchelka is concerned, a few points. Of course we don't have an exact picture of what the number is. And I repeat, I was unlucky or lucky to have been present to the entire debate as a plaintiff. Maybe you haven't heard some of the chops. Well, I'll say it again, that was an estimate based on mobile operators' reports, Frontex. We are not a border country of the European Union, so unlike Slovakia and Poland, we do not have precise figures on how many people have left our territory in the direction of Ukraine. That's the basic problem that's here. We're trying to use our contingent of cops, we're trying to use the cooperation we have. But the exact numbers just aren't. At this point, we're trying to get them into a state that allows us to plan strategically in kindergarten, health care, and so on. And according to the people who understand, I'm a consumer of that information. When the system is between 85 and 90 per cent in real state, planning really is possible. That there's gonna be some kind of error rate - that someone won't tell us that someone's gonna move - that's always gonna happen. But our ambition is to make it at least 15 percent by some 10. And that's the thing we promised the captains. I repeat once again that we would like to be in control at the beginning of June and, if necessary, during the first half of June, before entry into kindergarten, those regions where there will be some major error rate, try to get the local investigation clearly under control. There's no other way out of this. Next thing you know, the relocation mechanisms, that's what a few people asked. We're talking to the authorities about this, I've already said that, it's on their challenge. We've got till 31. 5. present the plan. We are working with external collaborators who have prepared Germany's adaptation to the 2015 migration crisis, and we are based on some examples of good practice, how these people can be motivated. I don't want to say the final product right now. Examplely, they can be motivated by self-government. Examplely, even the people themselves, whether negative or positive, can be motivated. This means that in those most busy locations, the benefit or incentive factor is simply lower than in those locations that still have some possibilities and capacity. But these are examples. I'm not saying that's how it's gonna work, the governor, the opinion. The discussion's going well. It will be a mechanism especially for them. We want him ready at the end of May, so it came from our last meeting. So I'm still looking at some other things here. A reality mechanism. A presentation of strategy, not the paperwork. That's a little different. Let's be fair to each other. Let's really be fair to each other. We had a duty to make it 14. 4. material, you call it studies, we call it strategic starting points, but the one in the system was. And then you say we threw something on your desk. However, at that time, the Chamber of Deputies was not bound by any resolution on a given date to submit any material, but at the request of Vice-President Vildumetzová, we sent you, at the next round of the debate, to each Member at his e-mail address, a management summary, which is not written in any other text, a presentation in a uniform form which was clearly given in some quality and was given to each Member in his e-mail box. So please let us be correct in this and this part of the discussion. Mr Zlinski, through the Vice-President. Temporary protection is defined as a European legislative instrument that tells us who we provide temporary protection. They are people coming from Ukraine, people with a Ukrainian passport and within this legislative instrument there is no definition that we are investigating whether the person is from Zakarpati or is from Kiev or is from the east of Ukraine. He's a citizen of Ukraine. That is the legislative rule, so we voted on it here and then we also have to follow this rule. But my colleague Zlínský, if I remember correctly, said something in that sense: send them back home, they should return. Well, that's what counts. It's temporary protection that's for one year. And if any of these people would still want to stay in the Czech Republic after the end of the instrument of the temporary protection institute, they would have to go through a classic procedure like anyone else in a non-war time. These people here will not automatically become citizens of the Czech Republic. When temporary protection is over, they will have to go through the whole asylum and other processes like anyone else who came to the Czech Republic before the war. So we offer these people - once again - temporary protection limited to the validity of this law, for which we have all raised our hand here in the Chamber of Deputies, including the SPD. So I think the strategy in this respect is pretty clear. It's just a short note for Mrs. Dostálová. If a single European practice of payment of benefits is sought. So in this case, it's a little complicated, because if we were to look for a uniform practice, like those Western countries like the Netherlands, Belgium has a dose much, much higher than we have here in the Czech Republic. We're comparing the two countries you mentioned here, I could compare them to three, where I would say the dosage is disproportionately higher. When we look at Austria, for example, and this is our geographical space, and Austria, which we forget, is also heavily occupied by the migration crisis, it is just behind us in terms of per capita numbers. [[20.20 hours]] And then there were the sentences that other countries like Hungary, Romania, Slovakia are also very affected by the migration crisis. Yes and no. Passages, yes. But Slovakia cannot compare itself with the number of people who have received temporary protection, not that they have passed, but that they have received temporary protection in Slovakia, the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is substantially above. And if we get this straight, we're actually in second place behind Poland, just behind us is Austria. Countries like Slovakia, Hungary, Romania are countries that have large registrations for entry into that country, but they no longer have such high numbers of those who really asked for temporary protection there. As far as Mr. Nacher is concerned, he asked if he was the last one. And I say yes, it is if we can approve the amendment of lex Ukraine. That's not blackmail, that's a statement. We really want this emergency to be the last. Next - question for relocation mechanisms. There are different relocation mechanisms. And the word can be understood differently. It is something that I have been responding to my colleague Juchelek, but there are relocation mechanisms related to the operation of regional assistance centres to help Ukraine, which allow people from the Regional Assistance Centre Prague, for example, to the Regional Assistance Centre Pardubice. And we still need such relocation mechanisms, because we may find that some of these centres will be fatally busy at some time of night, even by some specific group of refugees, and we need this burden to spread evenly to individual regional assistance centres to help Ukraine. We can't do this without a crisis measure approved in an emergency state. And one more comment, which was repeatedly made in several contributions. I apologize to my colleague Nacher, probably not in his, but now I remember. Why do they not have a crisis situation in Poland and so on? But have you looked closely into the neighbouring crisis legislation? Have you looked at what the SPD colleague here rightly pointed out, and now I don't know which one it was, but did he correctly point out that unfortunately our crisis legislation only knows three levels that we can apply? And we don't have a sufficiently diversified crisis law that would allow different levels of danger to respond to the various levels of current social hazard that are here. We can't compare it. I really don't. Have the Parliamentary Institute conduct a comparative study of individual crisis legislation. And it's incomparable. Unfortunately, we have either a state of danger, a state of emergency, or a state of war. That's basically the only three states we can deal with. Yes, then we can follow the crisis law and call the event of the migration crisis an emergency. But an emergency is defined by the emergency law as a short-term event of the type of flood, of the type of tornado I know of, of some great fire. This is an extraordinary event. And if we apply the emergency provisions of the emergency law in the context of an emergency, we get to the point that if any of you think of it, the court will also drop it. Therefore, the emergency situation is certainly a safer mechanism for us to apply emergency measures in all the areas that I have listed, and I say, we must replace it with another special legislation within the lex Ukraine, its amendment within the month of June, so that we can get out of any legal doubt that the court will throw something at us. I'm based on the opinions of professionals. I am based on an analysis of the lawyers of the Fire Rescue Corps, Police of the Czech Republic. I'm not just coming out of some feeling and some prediction of what might lead to non-approval of an emergency situation. For some reason I have a note from my colleague Nacher: We do not illustrate, the Hungarian side illustrates. We have no single European system so far. Unfortunately, there is no single European system for entry. And if we want to have some illustration of a citizen who suspects in quotes that he has a Hungarian passport, then we must address the Hungarian side. I'm afraid that's necessary. And that's probably why it's been waiting so long. Preparation of strategy. We have 12 strategic teams, or 13, now I may be wrong, a strategic group. It's a living document that develops all the time. Today I promised the Security Committee that even our experts, data analysts, I'd be able to lead them to a meeting of the Security Committee, and they'd be presenting you with a dashboard by then. But if you look at the executive summary of the 30-page presentation, there are deadlines, there are responsibilities. And if you're gonna check the terms, as far as the relocation mechanism is concerned, we're gonna keep that term. If the term moves forward, the strategic group always gives a regular explanation to the Central Crisis Staff about why something changes, why something shifts, if any particular task has been added. On the contrary, we stick to the crisis management scheme. We didn't come up with any advice on health risks number two. We've got the Central Emergency Staff, who's running the Home Secretary, and they've set up a strategic task force. The strategic working group in a simple scheme has an expert external group attached to it, where, of course, it consults some backgrounds. But it's all in that tree, as the firefighters themselves wanted, so this time, we're not going anywhere from crisis management and strategic planning to crisis management. So this is where I look like these are the most important things. [[He looks at his notes.]] Modular units. Now I have written about it - for Vice-President Vildumetzová - with Mr. CEO Vlček. Deliveries of new modular units and their production are a matter of about four to five months in this exposed time. They're not. They're made. The demand is huge. We have asked some of them from abroad in the framework of international humanitarian aid. Some of them in the territory of the Czech Republic, a few, we have, but in this case, building a tent town was more logical, because even for the capacity that we now needed, 150 places would not be enough. Just the tents. Those tents are heated. Three times a day, food is regularly imported there. Kids don't sleep anywhere on the ground. There is a Romani humanitarian organization in Troja. They take care of them. And the traffic is that it's filled. For this morning, if I remember the exact number, 142 people out of 150, 101 of them children. So, of course, we're trying to relieve Main Station. Many times we would also need synergies of course local sphere. We're trying to address them. By the way, I have information today that it is being put into operation - I will not even reveal where, I apologize - but within the Czech Republic another facility where people in need and humanitarian disaster are being driven. And until 31. 5. that's what you asked, we want to have the capacity so no one on the ground has to sleep. But at the same time I am very clear, we also want those who have Hungarian citizenship and in the Czech Republic to get nothing, if possible return to Hungary. I'm not gonna play any more politics here tonight, if we have a strategy or not. We do. We got her from the beginning. The strategic decision was the National Assistance Centre for Ukraine and 14 regional assistance centres. The strategic group has been working since the first minute. And your words offend a little people who really work with maximum effort in it. And I want to thank you for one more thing. I have repeatedly thanked all the public outputs of the captains, mayors and mayors, the nonprofit sector, volunteers and all individuals who helped us all, not the government, with such a migration wave that no plan I had inherited from any previous government helped us all. After the previous government, I inherited a plan that counted on a large migration wave of 20,000 people a month. We had that in a week. So this company did it. Not the government, not the opposition. This company. And I'm proud of people in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, too, Minister. I register two applications with priority rights, the first is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and after her is Minister Síkela. [[Voice off the microphone.]] In that case, Madam Vice-President lets you out, Minister, and you can be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the petitioner has informed me that there have been some questions, in particular, about the need for emergency conditions for gas purchases. I want to apologize for not being able to respond to them immediately, I attended a meeting with the ambassadors, where I had some important meetings with the ambassadors of some countries, with whom we are now discussing matters that should increase our country's energy security, and then I took part in negotiations with the Secretary-General of the European Commission, Mrs Ilze Juhansone, with whom we discussed the possibilities of financing the missing energy infrastructure from the European Union. When it comes to gas purchases and their connection to emergency conditions, I want to mention a few things. The first thing is that we knew, and the European Commission announced that measures would be prepared at the level of the European Union presented yesterday, from which there would be an obligation to fill stocks in the territory of the European Union at 80 per cent on 1 November of this year, because we knew that at the time when this measure came into force and when the states would start simultaneously to implement the stock exchanges, this would have a price-setting impact, which, as it already does on commodity markets, would probably lead to prices going up, so we called on and verbally promised some measures to traders in the territory of the Czech Republic, who first started partially on their own initiative after the end of the heating season. At the same time, on 28 April 2022, I issued crisis measures pursuant to § 12 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management, on the basis of which - and now I have to find it to quote it precisely - with a crisis situation which, for example, is considered to be a breach of critical infrastructure, a state of emergency or a state of emergency or a state of threat, I have introduced a system for filling storage bins, where, in order to save as much as possible, we are issuing auctions where, on the basis of these auctions, we offer traders compensation between any difference between the summer price, i.e. spot price, and futures price, or if you want a forward price, for the next heating season, and at the same time we compensate them for the fact that they cannot freely dispose of these stocks. [[flicks in materials]] On the basis of this measure, we are succeeding in meeting the stacks at the fastest pace in the European Union at the moment... or this way - Austria and the Netherlands still fill their head faster because they have more passability and more filling capacity, but we're filling reservoirs of approximately 25 to 30 million cc's a day and to date we've got stacks full of over 40 percent, total volume is 1 386,000,000 that was in the morning, so I'm assuming we're going to go over 1,400,000 cc's tomorrow. And it is true that my crisis measures, which I introduced on 28 April, are valid at the time of the so-called crisis situations, the precondition for issuing this crisis measure under Section 12a of the Crisis Act is fulfilled precisely because we have a state of emergency. When it comes to questions of the type: why we do not have a direct contract - if I have understood it, the question of Mr Koten, through Mr President - with the Russian Federation. I don't know if that was meant to be. I can say that at the moment I am pleased that we do not have a direct agreement with the Russian Federation, rather I would ask whether this question was also asked to the previous government or to the previous governments. But I would rather wonder why the gas supply agreement from Norway, from which 25 percent of total consumption flowed to us until 2017, or why we do not have other contracts and other infrastructure built, when we knew that in 2014, if I am not mistaken, Russian troops invaded Crimea, and when at the beginning of the winter, or in the winter of last year, Russia's troops stood at the border with Belarus on the pretext of some kind of exercise and when we had information from the secret services that the Russian Federation was preparing military aggression against Ukraine. So I confirm that the emergency situation enabled me to take crisis measures and thanks to it we are filling the reservoirs in favour of the energy security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, too, Minister. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u82	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I have already performed twice today, so I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for all the responses to our questions. I think it was constructive. I'm also glad, and I know that he thanks mayors and captains, police officers, firemen. I'm sure I'd like to invite him to believe that the fact that he managed to approve CZK 100 million to the government for firefighters and police officers must be clear to him, and he knows that the amount is insufficient to finance the overtime hours, because if we were to calculate it, at this point, it's based on a police officer and a firefighter on average of CZK 2,600. I am convinced that if we want to pay and we should pay the firemen and the police all the overtime, I think it will require a 30-fold higher amount. I have also called on the Minister of the Interior several times on the remuneration of the mayors and the chieftains, they can propose two rewards under the municipal law, the county council, but I believe that even this year there are municipal elections, so none of them will do so, because he could record it to opposition representatives - in quotation marks. Therefore, I am still calling for a path to be found in the framework of remuneration which would not go through the council and which would go to those mayors and captains directly through this regulation on the remuneration of representatives. [[20.40 hours]] I am still saying this, and my colleagues are saying this, and when I am talking to the mayors, with the captains, the strategy, the migration plan is still not, and so I would like to record the accompanying resolution at this time in the debate, of course, after the vote on the extension of the emergency situation, and this accompanying resolution is: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Interior to present a strategic document on refugee wave management The migration plan, according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 14 April, which will contain specific data and information on the movement and residence of refugees within the Czech Republic, where it will be stated how many refugees are present in our territory, in which city, community, regions such as people of profession, education, whether they are interested in the Czech Republic, including modeling on the number of refugees in order to ensure systems of school, health, social and employment, with a deadline until 31 May. Second accompanying resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to send funds to the regions and the capital of Prague for all costs associated with the resolution of the refugee crisis, also with a deadline until 31 May And the last accompanying resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to deal with a properly refugee crisis and, at the same time, an economic crisis that affects high energy, fuel and food prices. And I would like to ask each resolution to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u83	I, too, thank you, Madam Vice-President, and I will ask that you put the draft accompanying resolutions here on the table for the management meeting so that, if necessary, we can read them and put them to a separate vote. I am now registering one application with priority rights - President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor. And then there is a duly signed-up Mr. Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to put forward a counter-proposal - I will not say a resolution - the Government proposal, as amended by: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period by 14 days, that is until 14 June 2022 until 23.59 hours. And I ask that he be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal, I've noted it. You want the emergency to last until 14. 6. 23.59 hours. And now, the duly registered Member of the Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u86	Well, good evening, thank you very much. And I perceive the early evening mood here in the House that it has probably already been practically said, but I have been to the performance, and I promise to be brief, provoked by the speech of Minister Síkela. Normally, that would be a factual point. I had to apply normally as a standard. Minister, through Mr President, I know that there is nothing I can do about it, we cannot do that the situation is what it is for today, at the end of May. I certainly want to appreciate that you have made it fair and clear that the emergency situation has enabled you to take the steps you have described, but with all due respect, and please understand, I cannot say or not mention what has resonated in the media and in public space. In one of the articles, from the illustrations I have here, sometime from April 5th of this year, so less than two months ago: Government, buy back gas reservoirs, experts are calling, otherwise according to them the Czech Republic will encounter them. The situation is absolutely critical. Because of the escalating situation, traders have to buy at extremely expensive prices. You, Minister, of course I don't have to describe that. If we had our magazines, we would have them at our disposal, so it was possible to store the gas at cheaper prices and then release them to traders at prices other than the spot ones than the top ones. I will no longer read the article, and I will not go into detail, it can certainly be a topic for the Economic Committee, but what I want to hear here publicly in this reaction: We, the emergency situation when we discussed it today at the club, the gas situation, the critical gas situation, maybe I can speak for part of my fellow members from the club of the movement YES, was such a tongue on the scales, why, for the emergency situation in the compromise variant proposed by the President, to lean in and why to support it, because it is not a matter that we would not want to be at. That's what we want to help you with. But I have to say it again here, it's the end of May, and we've been challenging you and the experts have been calling you to be more actionable and action-efficient, already in March and April of this year, and you just weren't. That's the reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. Even with priority rights, Minister Síkela is reporting. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u88	I don't want it today. It's a long day, I think, for all of us. I hope that we will come to some conclusion, but I must respond because this has actually also been raised on Mr Koten's questions, through Mr President, the issue of purchase. First of all, the issue of purchasing bins has nothing to do with today's topic. It has no connection to the emergency situation. So the second thing I want to point out is that I just have to repeat what my government colleague, Minister Stanjura, has already made clear to you today, and I don't know what you didn't understand in his statement that we're not going to give any information that has a price-setting impact on any transaction, because if any transaction involves the state, it usually has an impact, let's say, speculative, and mostly those prices are going up. But there is one thing I must stress. As with the covid, there were a lot of people who had some kind of doctor's degree, and they were expressing themselves and making themselves specialists, so now I see the same thing about energy issues, whether it's gas or oil. There's a lot of self-proclaimed experts here who are expressing themselves. She the question of stacks and the use of their capacity and disposition with what is in those containers, and their ownership are different things. And I wouldn't discuss it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u89	And I thank you, too, Minister. I am currently not registering any application, either with priority rights or duly registered. Since I don't see anyone, I am ending the debate. I want to ask the Minister or the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. Minister, please. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. And you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to thank you for the correct debate we had here today in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am serious. I was kind of hoping for that, and I tried to, let's say, also answer all your questions factually and quickly. To conclude, I hope that we have raised enough reasons and arguments for the fact that the Czech Republic still needs emergency conditions for 30 more days, so that we are able, first, to ensure all the essentials associated with the arrival of refugees, but at the same time, to ensure safety and comfort for citizens of the Czech Republic. At the same time, I would like to ask you to discuss, as constructively as we have done today, the amendment of lex Ukraine in June, to create a legal environment that will actually enable our promise, namely that today we are asking for an emergency in connection with the migration wave from Ukraine for the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u91	Thank you, Minister. Do I want to ask the rapporteur? Please, rapporteur, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u92	I would also just like to thank you for the correct debate and to say that during the debate, there was a proposal from President Schillerová, respectively the counter-proposal, namely the vote to extend the emergency situation to 14 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. I'm registering the motion, and then I'll vote on it. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. In the meantime, for the sake of completeness, we will first vote on the length of the emergency, that is two votes, and then there are three accompanying resolutions that Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has read, and we will put them to a vote afterwards. I have the resolutions ahead of me. So we're going to proceed like I said. The number of Members and Members in the Chamber has stabilized, and I will read the motion for a resolution. First of all, we will vote that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period to 14. 6. 23.59 hours. It's a counterproposal against a government proposal. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 3, 138 Members and Members registered, for 42, against 87. The motion was denied. [[20.50 hours]] We will now put to the vote on the proposal put forward by the Government, which is that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 30 June 2022 23.59 hours. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 4. 141 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 80, against 50. And I say that this proposal has been approved. Now we have three accompanying resolutions, and I would ask you, Mr rapporteur, to present the various resolutions, because a proposal has been made to put me to a gradual vote on individual proposals. I'll give you my word, and I'll ask you to read the first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u94	Accompanying resolution proposed by Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová: Firstly. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of the Interior to present a strategic document on the management of the refugee wave The migration plan according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 14 April, which will contain specific data and information on the movement and residence of refugees within the Czech Republic, where it will be stated how many refugees are present in our territory, in which city, municipality, region, what people are professions, education, whether they are interested in staying in the Czech Republic, including modeling on the number of refugees, in order to ensure the systems of school, health, social and employment, with a deadline until 31. 5. 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u95	I thank you, and I am opening the vote on this accompanying resolution. I ask who is in favour of this accompanying resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 5, 143 Members and Members signed in for proposal 62, against 50. This accompanying resolution has not been approved and we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u96	Two. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to send funds to the regions and the capital city of Prague for all the costs associated with solving the refugee crisis, with a deadline of 31. 5. 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u97	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 6, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 61, against 15. This proposal has also not been approved. And before I vote on the last accompanying resolution, I announce that for the rest of the day, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura votes with a replacement card number 30. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u98	Three. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to address a properly refugee crisis as well as an economic crisis affecting high energy, fuel and food prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 7, 144 Members and Members signed in for proposal 62, against 36. Nor has this proposal been agreed. And if I am not mistaken, Mr rapporteur, we have put to the vote all the proposals and accompanying resolutions. [[Yes.]] Thank you. Madam, we have discussed the agenda for the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I finish, I'm going to ask you to calm down, because Prime Minister Alena Schillerová is still applying for priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to remind you that the government coalition has taken advantage of its majority, that is political reality, we take note of it. We wanted to support 14 days and wait for them to be deposited with us as the Chamber of Deputies. But I just want to point out here what's been rejected. It was denied that a strategic document on the management of the refugee wave would not be submitted, and so on, but in particular, please have been rejected...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u101	I'm sorry, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, we haven't finished our meeting day. I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so the Prime Minister can finish her speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. In particular, it was rejected that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to send funds to the regions and the capital city of Prague for all the costs associated with resolving the refugee crisis by 31. 5. So remember, nice regions and capital city of Prague, that not even until 31. The funds will obviously not be sent to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-001-001.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I see no further application. This concludes the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
