ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 118/2000 Sb., on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 288/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka. Minister, please take the floor. Before you do, I'll read one apology. Mr Mašek apologizes from 11 o'clock for medical reasons. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, good afternoon to you. I would like to mention the draft amendment to Act No. 118 on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer. It's a government proposal coming in here. We have it now at first reading. The reason for submitting this bill is the need and the need to update the existing legislative regulation, because we want to reflect in it the things that have changed in recent months in the area of private law recodification in the Czech Republic, when we take into account both national and transnational changes that have taken place in the field of insolvency law. This means that there are several changes here, I comment on some substantial ones, and that is the definition of the relevant period from which the employees are to be selected for the months for which their wage claims due are to be satisfied, at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, including explicit regulation of the relevant period for the transnational employer, starting from the date of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings in the insolvency register in the register in the register of foreign decisions. In addition, the definition of the staff member's wage entitlement due for the purposes of satisfying employees' wage claims is enshrined. Furthermore, the link between the beginning of the five-month period and the 15-day period to submit a request to satisfy wage claims at the workplace of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings. The exclusion of employees who were members of the statutory body of a non-payable employer or persons having a decisive influence on the employer's activities during the relevant period and had a minimum of 25% of the holding of that employer. Furthermore, this amendment also provides for an explicit anchoring of the possibility to deduct from the paid wage claim the so-called compensation granted under the Employment Act, as well as a refinement of the obligation to repay paid wages. So much for the brief presentation of the bill's proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the Minister, and I would like to point out some things. First of all, the reason for processing the draft law amending Act No. 118/2000 Coll., on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer and on the amendment of certain laws, it is primarily necessary to reflect on the amendment of insolvency law, both at national and transnational level, in European legislation. Furthermore, it was necessary to take into account the recodification of private law in the Czech Republic and, above all, to make other necessary adjustments that respond to the development of employment legislation. The aim of this update is therefore to correspond to the draft law to the terminology and conceptual development of other legal sectors, as I mentioned, and to achieve optimal protection of employees for a payment-incompetent employer. It is important that this draft law also takes into account practical knowledge and eliminates the application problems identified in the area of satisfying employees' wage claims by a non-payable employer and which occurred within the scope of the decision-making activities of the administrative authorities, in particular the labour authorities. Although the Minister has already presented this here, I would like to go back to some of the most important proposed changes, and this is, in particular, the definition of the relevant period at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, including explicit regulation of the relevant period for multinational employers, from the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings in the insolvency register in the register of foreign decisions. Another important change is definitely in establishing the definition of the employee's wage payment for the purposes of satisfying employees' wage claims. Basically, the bonding and alignment of terms, that was one of the main reasons. The further amendment is the link between the five-month period and the 15-day period for submitting an application for the satisfaction of wage claims to the contact points of the Regional Branches of the Labour Office at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings. And from this moment on, the beginning of it is also determined. Another important change is the imposition of an obligation on a person with a disposition authorisation, as this may change with regard to the conduct and development of insolvency proceedings in court, and it is therefore desirable that a person with a disposition authorisation be assessed on an ongoing basis with regard to the state of insolvency proceedings. It is then important to clarify the obligation to refund paid wage claims, including deadlines and deadlines, as well as the explicit anchoring of the possibility to deduct the compensation granted pursuant to Act No. 435 on employment. [[13.00 hours]] For me, it is very important that a lot of organisations have expressed their views on the proposal, but above all, they have cooperated on it and the workers of the Labour Office have expressed themselves because, as I said, this takes into account the findings of their practice. For me, it is important that this raises the rights of employees, both in the area of our national employers and multinational companies, that individual terms and concepts are unified, which will ultimately simplify work mainly on labour offices. And we know that we've been discussing this here several times lately, and it's just these workers that are under a lot of pressure right now. So much for me as a reporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I thank you for the floor and open a general debate to which the Member is reporting from the seat. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some questions for the Minister. I am not a full expert on social law, but I have read in the explanatory memorandum that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is not entirely able to define the financial impact on the state budget, positive or negative. That's one of the things that's given there. Second thing. I understand that we are going in the right direction because multinational corporations in their branches as part of the interpretation of labour offices... were not always the same interpretation as the companies that worked in the Czech Republic, so whether this will be corrected. Another thing is about the labour authorities, and I do not want to anticipate, I hope it will be very good if, say, insolvency proceedings were to occur to a greater extent in connection with the energy crisis and the war in Ukraine, whether the capacity of the labour authorities in this agenda will be sufficient and will help those people. Then, if I understand correctly, the compensation paid in the event of payment of claims to individual applicants will be deducted or the applicants will return it, based on what is going on there. And if I understand correctly, there will be simplified supervision of the recovery of the funds unduly paid. And whoever receives the benefit will also have his duty to deal with the employment office. Then I would ask the Minister for a brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Who's next to the general debate? Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u8	Of course, the situation in terms of quantification of impacts is difficult, because it cannot be quantified, it cannot be anticipated what economic developments will be in the course of next year. So we're saying fair and square that this is a thing that we can't add up there so that the number is leaning on some really real basis, and then the quantification here was really a serious estimate. I just can't do that in this situation. We don't know how many companies can possibly get into some kind of trouble, and their employees, who are then protected by this arrangement. As far as the burden of labour offices is concerned, I have to say here that I do not think that this would be a risk to developments next year. We assume with the measures that are now being implemented, that means that the parts of employees we have now missed mainly in the workplace in Prague, so we are getting them into a state in other branches in other regions, where we are moving the agenda, where they help to reduce the burden, and at the same time to meet legal deadlines, and we see that we should be greatly helped during the next quarter, in addition, in combination with how we have also increased the number of applicants who submit their applications digitally, especially for a solidarity home, humanitarian benefits, but also for some others. And here's the biggest peak increase in applications in October. So we're dealing with a large volume of October here, which, of course, the office has burdened significantly as part of the housing contribution, but even this agenda will be able to, say, reduce its burden. The reactions here in this setting are, in view of what I said in my introduction, when I presented this proposal here, as well as how it was supplemented by the rapporteur, how adjustments have been made both at European level, then in our area of settlement of insolvency proceedings, and we are responding in this way, plus the information from international registers, which we will also be able to work with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u9	Thank you. The rapporteur is still reporting and Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. You have the floor, rapporteur, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to express myself as rapporteur for the club and just say that we welcome all the proposals that will help the workers of the labour authorities, because I feel this very sensitively. Indeed, their overload has been immense lately. And it may seem that, as Mr. Minister and I have presented the various changes that are minor changes, it seems so, there are a lot of changes, but I know from practice myself, and of course I speak and come to the authorities of work, so I know how these minor changes can make life uncomfortable in the practice of those workers in carrying out this agenda, prolong administrative proceedings and how extremely important it is to define a clear term. Moreover, even as the Minister mentioned, we cannot do otherwise as the Czech Republic, because we obviously want this area to be very well aligned with European Union legislation. But it is extremely important for those workers to have clear deadlines, deadlines. And it's not only positive for the workers who pay the wages, but especially for the employees themselves. And I am very glad that this certain legal status does not only apply to employees of our employers of Czechs, but it really works for those multinationals, where the company or company in the Czech Republic has only a subsidiary company. For us, therefore, for the YES movement, we will certainly continue to work on this and evaluate it positively, just for the benefit positive for the labour authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u11	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský is still reporting for the general debate. Before I give him my word, I'll load up my apologies. Mr Faltýnek Jaroslav apologizes from 13:00 to 14:00 for health reasons, Mr Okamura Tomio apologizes from 12:30 for work reasons and cancels Mr Okamura Hayato's apology, who is already present at our meeting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I'm just a little short on this press. I thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that it has taken up this issue, because we hear very often about the issue of employee protection at meetings with representatives of trade unions, professional groups, and also for employers it is an important area in terms of clarifying some of the problematic areas, as the Minister spoke of them and especially the rapporteur. This is particularly the case with regard to changes in the insolvency law. So we welcome, we will also be happy to work together on this amendment. And since the issue is quite urgent because there are a number of changes that have taken place in the last period, then I would like to propose in a detailed debate a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days, i.e. 40 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u13	Thank you. We are in a general debate. Is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. I have noted a motion to shorten the time limits. I'll ask you to repeat the exact timeline. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's been a motion for a refund, a rejection? He didn't. So we're going to deal with it now. I'm gonna say what we're gonna vote on one more time. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 72, 138 Members were voted in, 111 voted in, no one opposed. The proposal has been adopted and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. [[13.10 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. We will still vote on a proposal to shorten the deadlines. Once again, I will ask the Member to tell us the deadline he has proposed. I didn't hear him exactly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u14	As I have already announced, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions to 40 days, i.e. a reduction of 20 days to 40 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-007-012.u15	Yes. We will therefore vote on shortening the time limits for committee discussions to 40 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 73, 139 Members were voted in, 114 voted in, no one opposed. We have approved the proposal to shorten the time limits. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point, i.e. item 12. Let's continue with point number
