ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I agree that with the replacement card number 27, Mrs Zajíčková and Mr Dvořák vote with the replacement card number 31. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Markéta Pekarová Adamová within 13 hours - personal reasons, Babišová Andrea for the whole day - working reasons, Bělica Josef from 15 to 23.59 hours - health reasons, Bělohlávková Romana all the day - working reasons, Bernard Josef all the day - medical reasons, Blaha Stanislav all the day - working reasons, Brázdil Milan all the day - working reasons, Burešš Full Jan day - full working day - full working David - Petra working day - full Dostálová day - full Petr day - full working Heller - Šimon working day - Gazdík Petr day - full working day - full working day - full working Golasowská - full Válková David - full Vrána Petr - full Lukáš Václav - full working day - full working Jaroslav - free Krejza Róbert, Kášník Karel whole working day - full working day - Svoboda, Naiclerová Pavla from 16.30 - free of Štolpa, Kohajda Oborná Monika working day - working day - Mašek Jiří, kolář Ondřej whole Potůčková Lucie - free working day - free of charge, Kolořík Martin from 13 hours - working day - Teleky Hájek - Matěj Bohuslav Peštová - Ivo day - whole working day, Krutáková Jana's reasons - Wenzl Milan Kašník - Nacher Patrik Eliška - full vlček day - liška Hana day - full Jílková Marie - full Pastuchová day - Foldyna working day - full working day - full working day. They apologize from the members of the government: Fiala Petr within 10 hours - working reasons and from 14:30 - foreign travel, Baxa Martin from 18:30 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš until 18:00 - working reasons, Blažek Pavel from 11 and from 14.30 to 18:00 - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna from 9 to 10 hours - working reasons, Kupka Martin within 10 hours and from 10 to 18:00 - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít within 11 hours - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal whole day - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil whole day - working reasons. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 170 - the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would remind you that, according to the approved agenda, we will proceed immediately after discussing paragraph 170 by discussing the fixed points. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. I merely remind you that if anyone is interested in making proposals to amend the approved agenda, you can, of course, do so immediately, but it will be discussed only after written interviews. So now I'm opening up a point.
