ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u1	58. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the World Postal Union Act signed at the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union, held in Addis Ababa from 3 to 7 September 2018, and at the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union, which took place from 24 to 26 September 2019 in Geneva /German press 92/ - first reading And once again, I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela to take the floor. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented for the second time as part of the ratification process, with the aim of expressing the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the ratification of the World Post Union Act - SPU, adopted at the extraordinary Congresses of the SPU in Addis Ababa in 2018 and Geneva 2019. During the previous term of office, the Chamber of Deputies did not open negotiations on this material submitted by the Government in August 2020. The SPU acts are multilateral international agreements governing the functioning of this intergovernmental international organisation included in the UN system, which has 192 Member States. In particular, it lays down rules on postal services between the postal administrations of the Member States, i.e. the conditions for the exchange of letters, parcels, postal orders, liability in the event of loss and damage to consignments and so on. The SPUs are regularly revised by the highest body, which is the SPU Congress, which usually meets every four years. However, relatively complex developments in the SPU have recently led to two extraordinary congresses being convened in 2018 and 2019. The output of both of these congresses is changes and additions to individual contracts, which are now presented to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The most important changes that each Congress discusses and approves can be described as changes to the fees paid by the Postal Administration to ensure the mutual exchange of mail. Their fair setting is very complicated and can lead to steps that were announced in 2018 by the United States of America from the SPU. In response to this threat, the Geneva Congress in 2019 managed to find a compromise solution allowing the US to remain, as well as other countries in the SPU. The SPU Act was signed by the Czech Republic at both extraordinary congresses subject to their ratification. With the content of the Act, the Government agreed by its resolution of 27 June 2020 number 802 and subsequently submitted it to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. The Senate already agreed to the ratification in December 2020. Practical fulfilment of the content of the Act is entrusted in the Czech Republic by the Czech Post, a state enterprise, on the basis of the Postal Services Act, which imposes on the holder of the postal license, inter alia, to provide international postal services in accordance with the SPU Acts. The texts of the SPU Act, which are annexed to the present House press, do not cause any complications for the Czech Republic, nor do they call for any claims on the state budget. I would therefore like to ask you, honourable Members, to release the material for further discussion. In its framework, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is ready to discuss the submitted SPU Acts in detail with you in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Kubík, should now take the floor. I have been informed that it is not present, so we need to change the rapporteur for first reading. I have here a motion for Mr Bžoch to take up the reporting of this press. Since we are at first reading, we need to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. So I want to ask if there is any other proposal than for a colleague of Bžoch to take up the reporting of this press? I can't see. I therefore ask you to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and asking who is the rapporteur for a change? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 105 vote, 131 Members were voted in favour, 107 voted in favour, and no one was opposed. The proposal was adopted And I will ask the rapporteur Bžoch to take the floor... And for the vote, Mr Lochman. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u4	I just wanted to point out that I forgot to check out here and I couldn't vote, so I couldn't vote. However, I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u5	You don't question the vote, just for the tapestry. Thank you. And now I ask the new rapporteur, Mr Bžoch, to take up the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The World Postal Union was established on 9 October 1874 in Bern, which is one of the oldest international organizations that has worked so far. Since 1947, he has been one of the UN's professional organizations. It belongs to government organizations with almost universal membership and currently has 192 members. According to the SPU Constitution, its mission through properly performed postal services is to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of international cooperation in the field of cultural, social and economic matters. From a practical point of view, it is mainly about ensuring and continuing development of universal postal services with all its parameters, namely availability, quality and security, based on the establishment of uniform binding rules for international postal services and coordination of the development of postal services in individual countries and regions. The SPU shall carry out its activities in particular in accordance with the following documents, collectively referred to as SPU Acts, which are, by their nature, multilateral international treaties concluded between SPU Member States. It is the SPU Institute and its Additional Protocols, the SPU General Code and its Additional Protocols, the World Postal Convention and its Additional Protocols, the Arrangement on Postal Cash Services. The highest body of the SPU shall be a congress, which shall normally meet every four years in order to revise the SPU Act on the basis of proposals from the permanent bodies and the SPU Member States. In addition to this extensive discussion and approval of changes and supplements The Act also elects the Director-General of the International Office of the SPU, its Deputy Minister and Member State to the permanent bodies of the SPU. The last proper, i.e. the 26th Congress took place in 2016 in Istanbul. However, this Congress failed to find a solution to all complex financial issues related, in particular, to the financing of SPU activities through membership contributions and the sustainability of the SPU pension system and compromise in the proposed organisational changes of SPU bodies. In view of this, this Congress decided to hold an extraordinary Congress, and the Minister said so, it was in 2018 in Ethiopia. What was the biggest dispute and why there was another extraordinary congress in Geneva was mainly about the contributions. In simplicity: each country that sends shipments uses postal services, so the country that takes over those shipments is part of this agreement, so it takes on certain costs. This was mainly not agreed by the United States because they have a large volume of shipments, for example, from China. You all know it, Chinese stores that also send thousands of shipments to us. And that's why they were going into great loss, and that's why they contradicted this arrangement and threatened to exit this union, which, of course, would mean that she wouldn't be able to live another life because she wouldn't have those contributions. On 26 August 2019, the Czech delegation participated in the extraordinary congress in Geneva following the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic, number 615. By those resolutions, the Government agreed, inter alia, to submit an extraordinary Congress and to negotiate amendments. The SPU act, also subject to their ratification. The only point of the congress programme was the variants of modifications to the existing terminal expenditure system, only for consignments of bulky, so-called E format. After extremely complex and long negotiations, in which it was the US delegation that played a key role, the compromise solution identified as variant V was finally found, which allowed the US and other countries, such as Canada, Norway, to remain, which also announced possible performances. [[11.40 hours]] The Government of the Czech Republic submitted a proposal to express its consent to the ratification of the SPU Act to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic in August 2020. The Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify its resolution number 67 at the third meeting on 16 December 2020. The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, despite the fact that this item was placed on the agenda several times, did not discuss the proposal during the previous term of office. The proposal is therefore re-submitted to both chambers. It's what I said at the last point again. Once again, we have missed this agreement, and therefore it is presented to us again with the fact that, of course, it must be handed over to the Senate. That is why I call once again for us to really deal with these treaties. Thank you for your attention and again here I ask that this press be assigned to the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u7	I thank the rapporteur, please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Koten has come forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard the news report here, it can be said, of course, that this law is quite important. It would be good to discuss it today so that it can move on to the Senate. I would like to put just a few more details on the Postal Union so that we can discuss this House press today. There were also some constitutions and basic documents of the SPU. It sets out new objectives and tasks, powers and conditions for membership and its organisational structure. It also regulates SPU financing. It defines the act, the procedures for discussing their changes and the forms of their approval, so-called ratification. These general rules detail the composition, competence and content of the activities of the SPU permanent bodies, their management, procedural matters related to the election of members of the permanent bodies and leaders of the SPU, the so-called contribution classes and the like. In particular, the World Postal Convention lays down general rules for the exchange of letters and parcels, the obligation of Member States to provide universal postal services, specifies the principle of freedom of operation and regulates the level of terminal charges and the scope of the liability of postal messages. The arrangement on postal and cash services, which is mainly dealt with by the service of international postal orders, has an optional character and is binding only on the Member States that have acceded to it. The Czech Republic is a participant in this arrangement, which includes in particular the principles of operation, technical and technological provisions, the definition of liability and the principles of derecognition between designated operators of these services. The highest body of the SPU shall be a congress, which shall normally meet every four years in order to revise the SPU Act on the basis of proposals from the permanent bodies and the SPU Member States. In addition to this extensive discussion and approval of amendments and supplements, the Congress also elects the Director-General of the International Office of the SPU, its Deputy Minister and Member State to the permanent bodies of the SPU. The last proper, this is the 26th Congress held in 2016 in Istanbul. However, this Congress failed to find a solution to all complex financial issues related, in particular, to the financing of SPU activities through membership contributions and the sustainability of the SPU pension system or compromise in the proposed organisational changes of SPU bodies, this is the Administrative Board and the Postal Traffic Council. In view of this, this Congress decided to hold an extraordinary Congress of the SPU in 2018 in Ethiopia. In more than 140 years of SPU history it was only the second extraordinary congress. Following the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 22 August 2018, number 542 was attended by the Czech delegation, which participated very actively in all the meetings of the Congress, which took place from 3 to 7 September 2018. The Act adopted by Congress contains in particular the following amendments: 9. The Additional Protocol to the SPU Institute brings in three articles, namely 1, 8 and 18, more or less only adaptations specifying and editorial character. 2. The Additional Protocol to the SPU General Rules regulates even 22 articles, the most important of which can be described as an increase in the number of members of one of the SPU bodies, namely the Post Office Council, from the existing 40 to 48 member countries - so it is Article 112 if someone wants to look into it - with the current five increasing to six seats reserved for the region of Eastern Europe and North Asia, to which the Czech Republic belongs. It is also important to establish a coordination committee of the permanent institutions of the Union, that is to say, a new Article 117, and changes in Article 150 of the contribution class, which introduces to the existing 13 10 new contribution classes, where new classes have been inserted between classes with a higher number of contributions units, which reduce the spread between classes. At the same time, on the basis of practical problems with the payment of membership contributions in the spirit of solidarity, a new contribution class of 0.1 unit was created, intended exclusively for countries recognised by the UN as small island developing countries whose population is less than 200,000 inhabitants. Based on practical problems in verifying the full powers of delegates for congress meetings and signing The SPU Act was then amended by Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress annexed to the General Rules of Procedure. The Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention on the basis of the Congress-approved update of the so-called Integrated Product Plan was in Article 17, this is a basic service, added to letter mail containing two new categories of goods, namely blind shipments up to 7 kg and so-called printed bags N, which are consignments containing newspapers, periodicals and so on. Also in connection with the approval of the integrated product plan, Article 18, which are additional services, has been deleted by the fragile package service, because there has been quite a lot of damage to their content. The Extraordinary Congress has not adopted any amendments to the Postal Cash Service Agreement. The Congress also approved an integrated remuneration plan, and it is a payment system that postal operators pay each other for the exchange of mail. These are so-called terminal fees and parcel shares. This document defined the travel map on the basis of which the 27th Congress in 2020 should be put forward proposals to adjust these payments in order to reflect actual costs. However, shortly after the end of the Congress in Addis Ababa, it became clear that some countries did not fully comply with the agreed integrated reward plan, which basically postponed the problem resolution to 2020. The United States of America has spoken most actively in this regard, with a statement from the President of the United States of America of October 2018 stating that the current terminal charging system of the United States is considered unfair. The United States Postal Administration brings enormous losses because it will not even pay their national costs. The most significant losses arise from the enormous volume of shipments sent to the United States based on orders from Chinese e-shops, which has already been mentioned here by the rapporteur. In this context, the United States has therefore declared that if this system is not changed within a year, it will be leaving the SPU in October 2019. [[11.50 hours]] Not only in the context of this declaration, the SPU authorities prepared a proposal for a new terminal fee scheme to be discussed at the proper SPU Congress, which will take place in 2020 in Côte d'Ivoire. [[was he supposed to act?]] However, taking into account the possible withdrawal or withdrawal of the US and its effects, these are, of course, the problems with ensuring mutual postal relations with the United States and the loss of high contributions from the United States to the SPU budget, corresponding to about 6 percent of the total budget, so it was decided that under the established rules Member States would be contacted to comment on the possibility of calling an extraordinary Congress, already in 2019. The needy majority of the Member States voted in favour of the special Congress of the SPU and also the Czech Republic on the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to hold the Congress. On this basis, the General Director of the International Office of the SPU was convened to hold another extraordinary Congress of the SPU in Geneva on 24 to 26 September 2019 with the only scheduled item for discussion, which was the assessment and vote on variations of changes to the terminal fee system. The meeting of the extraordinary Congress of the SPU in Geneva was attended by the delegation of the Czech Republic, including on the basis of the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 26 August 2019, the resolution was number 615. By those resolutions, the Government agreed, inter alia, to submit an extraordinary Congress, to negotiate amendments to the SPU Act, and also subject to ratification thereof. The only point of the congress programme was the variants of modifications to the existing terminal expenditure system, only for consignments of bulky, so-called E format. After extremely complex and long negotiations, in which it was the US delegation that played a key role, a compromise solution identified as variant V, i.e. Victory - a victory that allowed the US and other countries like Canada, Norway to remain, and also announced possible exits from the SPU precisely because of the level of fees. The specific changes to the terminal expenditure system have been reflected in the adaptation of the six articles of the World Postal Convention and are contained in the second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention. The version adopted will update the terminal expenditure rates for E consignments for each year up to 2025, while allowing Member States receiving more than 75 tonnes of consignments per year to set their own rates based on their costs as from 1 July 2020. This was therefore the main objective that the United States wanted to achieve, but other Member States have high costs that the current system did not cover. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, the new system will not have a major impact on the Czech Post, a state enterprise that fulfils the obligations arising from membership of the SPU under the Postal Services Act. I would just add here that you must have noticed that since 2020 and even during 2021, thanks to the coronavirus crisis, there has been an disproportionate increase in the number of shipments that the Czech Post had to transport and unload, and, of course, the ratio of those shipments that went from China, for example, was really enormous, because people have learned to shop more or less via the Internet because they could not, and thus the volume of shipments increased enormously. Of course it also had some impact on the Czech Post, so Czech Post has unfortunately been in loss for several years. There is a separate system of terminal expenditure, based on actual costs, between European countries and no other country exceeds 75 tonnes by hand. In the spirit of the conclusions of the Working Group of the Council of the European Union on Postal Services and in line with previous practice, the Czech Republic, like all other European Union Member States, signed the so-called Declaration at the signing of the Act and the statement states the following: "The delegations of the Member States of the European Union declare that their countries will apply the Acts adopted by this Congress in accordance with their obligations under the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation'. The same statement will be repeated on behalf of the Czech Republic in ratification of the SPU Act. In accordance with the power of attorney granted, Mr. Jiří Řehola, the Head of the delegation of the Czech Republic, Deputy Director of the Postal Services and Services Department of the Information Society of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, signed the extraordinary congresses discussed and approved by the SPU Act, subject to their ratification. The Act adopted at the Addis Ababa Congress took effect on 1 July 2019 and the Act adopted in Geneva on 1 January 2020. The texts of the new SPU Act, which the Government of the Czech Republic approved by its resolution of 27 July 2020, are therefore a resolution with the number 802 set out in the Annex to the report. The ratification of the SPU Act is not contrary to the commitments taken over by the Czech Republic from the applicable international treaties by which it is bound, and should not create increased demands for the state budget, which unfortunately will then be in the following years, because the report is quite old, so it has unfortunately been reflected in the negative impact on the balanced budget of the Czech Post by getting into loss as well. The SPU Constitution and its transformations or amendments reflected in the Additional Protocols require ratification in accordance with Article 25 thereof, i.e. the approval of other documents, and is governed by the constitutional rules of each State. Given the ratification and approval procedures in each Member State and the deadline for providing official texts, The French Act is the prevailing practice that, in most of them, the ratification process is not terminated on the date of entry into force of the Act. However, in order to ensure international postal traffic, the new Acts are provisionally implemented by all Member States in practice. The Act will enter into force for the Czech Republic only after the instrument of ratification has been deposited with its depositary, the Director-General of the International Office of the SPU. At the same time as the deposit of the instrument of ratification, the declaration made at the signing of the SPU Act will be repeated on behalf of the Czech Republic. The ratification of the SPU Act requires the consent of the Parliament, as referred to in Article 49 (b). (a) Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, is an international treaty containing obligations that govern the rights and obligations of persons. From the point of view of the legal order of the Czech Republic, the SPU Act has the character of international presidential treaties. In view of the above, the Parliament of the Czech Republic is requested to give its consent to the SPU Acts adopted at an extraordinary SPU Congress in 2019 in Addis Ababa and Geneva in 2019. The Government of the Czech Republic submitted a proposal to agree to the ratification of the SPU Act to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic in August 2020. After discussing the Committees, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify its resolution number 67 at the third meeting on 16 December 2020. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, despite the fact that this item has been included several times on the agenda, did not discuss the proposal during the previous term of office. The proposal is therefore submitted to both chambers over and over again. [[12.00 hours]] I'd hate to quote some of those articles where there's been some changes so that we can still tell each other what's actually been changing there, but maybe I could poke out at least two articles here, but somehow I can't find them. Perhaps the most important are the changes, and I think it's a good thing that other categories have been introduced there, which were sightseeing shipments up to 7 kilograms, and they are specified in the order. Other were special bags containing newspapers, periodicals, books and similar printed documents for the same consignee at the same destination, called type M printed bags. These may weigh up to 30 kilograms and their specifications are specified in the order. Another point of additional services is point 2 of Article 2. This is amended by Article 18 and it is point 2 that Member States may ensure the provision of the following optional additional services in contact between designated operators who have agreed to provide such services. This is therefore a priced parcel delivery service for mail and parcels, a delivery service for mail and parcels, a mailing service for mail and mail - it is very important because if you are waiting for a shipment and you do not have the opportunity to verify where it is located, of course this is a good direction shift and I think it belongs there, also a delivery service for recommended or valuable mail, a delivery service for mail without rates and fees for mail and packages and a non-in stock parcel service. Furthermore, the consignation service for combined consignments from one sender designated abroad, and therefore for e-shops there must be a return service which consists in returning the goods to the consignee of the original sender, i.e. to the seller, with his consent. That is what I think is quite important changes that have taken place there. Then there's the other changes, they're listed as points, but I wouldn't really bother you with that. Basically, there's another important change here, and that's Article 1, a modified original numbering article 103. It is a function of Congress and there is a slightly changed choice when Member States elect to the Administrative Council and the Postal Operations Council, inter alia, in accordance with the electoral procedures laid down by the congressional resolutions on this issue, namely the elections to the institutions. I think we've been through this pretty well. I thank you for your attention and hope that we agree to this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-003-058.u9	Thank you. Beautiful noon, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken up the management of the meeting. At this point, we are in the general debate of Parliament's press 92, first reading. Radek Koten spoke to the general debate. At this point, I'll read the apologies. I have here an apology from the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, for today's meeting from 12 o'clock for work reasons. At the same time, I would like to note that Jan Skopeček, my colleague, will vote with a replacement card 24. We are in a general debate. I'm going to ask at this point because there's no one else logged in, anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the general debate. I ask if the Minister of Industry and Trade wants a final word? Next, shall I ask the rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch? He doesn't want the final word either. I will now engage and we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I'm gonna reengage. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you at this point, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. At the moment, there is a proposal for the Organisational Committee to propose that the proposal be submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Let me ask - does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no one, so we will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 106 registered 138 Members, for 137, against no one. The motion was accepted. At this point, I must say that I forgot to vote, so only for the tape screen. [[Glee in the hall.]] I'm on a "I got held up" high, so I wanted to vote yes. I am not questioning the vote, and I am sorry. At this point, we have ordered the Foreign Committee, and I would like to ask if there is still a motion for a commandment to another committee? At this point, I will state that only the Foreign Committee has been ordered. And let me ask - does anyone else have anything else to discuss this House press? This is not the case, so I am ending the discussion of this House press. Opening point
