ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u1	122. Government bill on tax measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops /German press 173/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, this bill will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who is already at the table. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I thank the Chamber of Deputies for including this item. In the first week of this meeting, we were on the agenda for the first reading. Meanwhile, there was a budget committee. So far, no amendment has been tabled, which, of course, can change in a detailed debate. I would simply briefly mention the main points of this bill. The most important thing is that we extend the possibility of applying donations to natural persons from the tax base for a tax period of 2022 up to 30 per cent. For legal persons - up to 28 February 2023 - for taxpayers who pay corporate taxes, it is also 30 per cent. In other words, this useful institute, which we approved here together in the last parliamentary term, which raised this threshold for 2021, we propose that we have the same principle, the same value this year. I think this is good news especially for the non-profit sector, because there is greater economic motivation for donors. Of course, the motivation of donors is not economic, it is primarily an expression of their social responsibility, that they support very often in the place of their business really very useful activities. However, I think that the economic aspect can also play a role. By increasing the line, we create conditions for more money to end directly in the non-profit sector. [[9.40 hours]] Another important part of this bill is that, in response to Putinův's war in Ukraine, we extend the conditions for tax deduction. We devote ourselves to spending on money donations, income tax exemptions, and what is important, because the law before this regulation applied only to the Member States of the European Union, that is, the Czech Republic and our partners from the European Union, here we extend the same possibility that, on the one hand, the donations that are directed at Ukraine, the Ukrainian state, the local authorities and the companies - I think that this is the right response, that is the second part of the law, and the third concerns administrative fees that refugees often have to pay before the war, and here we are actually just giving the possibility for individual administrative authorities to waive this administrative charge. We don't forgive them in this bill, we just give them the option. For some it certainly makes sense, for some we will continue to collect administrative fees, but the authority that collects the administrative fees will decide. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u3	Thank you. We ordered this proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The resolution of this committee has been delivered as House Press 173/1 and I am now asking that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Michael Kohajda, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, allow me to inform briefly about the discussion of this bill on tax measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops in the Committee on Budgets. As the Minister has summed up here, the law - I don't suppose it is necessary for me to repeat the same - I would say four areas. Three is tax, one is administrative fees. I would like to inform you that, as the Minister has already said, no amendments have yet been tabled to the committee, and the Committee on Budgets discussed this material at its 10th meeting on 30 March 2022 and adopted a resolution on it under number 66 which recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to give its agreement on this government bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am now opening a general debate to which President Alena Schillerová is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say for the YES movement that we have supported the extraordinary inclusion of this item in the second reading because we are aware of its importance as an YES movement. I've been through the budget committee, so I'm gonna have some questions on the minister's behalf, because he wasn't on the budget committee, but I'm sure he got some information from the deputy. Some relate directly to this press, and some I would like to ask politely, when they go beyond the press, whether they could be answered because they were spoken to on the Committee on Budgets. In fact, we also support this press because our government, the former one, had a similar adjustment to covido aid, so it's definitely something that's important. I'm sure these people aren't just motivated economically, but if they want to give a gift, that's what they feel, but if some tax relief goes hand in hand, it's certainly not bad. I vetoed the '90s hearing here because I wanted a debate on the committee, even for that reason, so that we could possibly improve the proposal if there were any reasons for improvement. But we supported the shortening of the deadline, which is why we can actually be here today, just as we had no problem and raised our hand for today's second reading. Finally, we will not be submitting an amendment after the debate that took place on the Committee on Budgets. I was wondering why the press was in such a hurry. I also spoke with the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors when it is possible to apply the deduction from the tax base in 2022. However, the answer I received from experts, that is, from representatives of business entities, is that there should be some certainty, it should certainly be built as it will be, because when the gifts are spent - the economy always plays a role, we are at a difficult time, so we have to admit that, of course, when the opportunity is here, it can have an impact on the amount of the gift, which is nothing against anything, I am not criticizing it at all. I understand that they want business entities to be sure. I would have a question, it's more political than technical, because the debate that went on there was from the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, and I think it was said - now I'm not entirely sure - even from the representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. It is a political question when they said that there is some unacceptable discrimination at the edge, where free refugees without children are excluded from the tax regime, especially when we consider that the overall intention is to involve as many refugees as possible - now I am talking about liberation, I may not have said so at the outset, exemption from tax - to involve them in the labour process. I know from the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors that there was still some e-mail correspondence, that there was an explanation by the experts of the Ministry of Finance. I understand the explanation, I read it, it was sent to me. I read it, I understand that it is possible to do so from some context of the House of the Press, but I would like to ask the Minister if he could say it here on a microphone so that we know how it will actually be judged and what the legislator's intention is for this to be built on a microphone. And then there was one other thing that was referred to as more important by the representative of the Chamber of Tax Advisors, and that is the question of the employer showing that he is a refugee from Ukraine, to whom the exemption applies. And he raised there - because, of course, he is an expert who represents years of x subjects - why he should not suffice a document that is relevant to all other areas of life, that is to say, financial contribution, free travel, health insurance and so on in the Czech Republic. This means that, in theory, there may be cases where a person does not have refugee status, and yet he could apply the exemption, and so on, even if it is rare cases. He says he's been meeting questions - I wouldn't have thought of it - but he's been meeting questions from accountants who say that, of course, he's on such an assumption, and I understand that as a former executive, there's no way to rule out a stowaway. It's obvious, but it's just always in these situations, when the woods fall, splinters fly. So they said they couldn't imagine how the payroll accountant should still prove that he was a Ukrainian fugitive if he didn't have refugee status. So, technically, if the Minister could comment on that. And we will not be making an amendment because I am aware of some explanation, and it should also be the subject of a joint coordination committee, which is often attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Tax Advisors and other experts, which has been regularly for many years, about 20 years, but should not be until June. So I hope that law will be effective by now. Then there was an explanation, I would just ask again if the Minister could comment on it - it was explained that even gifts that go to the embassy are considered and recognised as gifts under this law, because the Embassy has the status of Ukraine, so we explained that there. Then please, and I say this openly and frankly that this goes beyond this legislation - it was said that during our government at the time, in the case of donations from the humanitarian area, this was the case with the covid, I was still exempt from VAT, and it was again said whether this would also be taken into account in the area of VAT for these humanitarian donations. [[9.50 hours]] And then there was - and this is no longer relevant to this press, so I say openly when the Minister speaks, I will be happy if he does not, so perhaps I will deal with this in the context of the interpelling, there it certainly belongs to - it was said there if the rapid write-offs that were introduced as a result of the covid crisis by our government - I think the ODS, if I recall, supported this in the previous Chamber of Deputies - so if there will be an extension, because the business public, and it was said by both the representative of the Chamber of Tax Advisors and the representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, is calling for this very much, and I understand it, because this crisis is no less than the covide one. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u7	Thank you for your contribution. I state that no one is logged in anymore, and the Minister is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u8	Thank you for the questions. I'll start from the end. Yes, we're counting on it. In addition to the fact that we want to introduce a completely new system of depreciation and simplifying the system from 1 January 2024, we are also counting on extending the acceleration of depreciation for 2022, and we are wondering whether we will not automatically give it to 2023, because the new system of depreciation will apply if the law can be passed through the ordinary legislative process, starting on 1 January 2024. I have a pretty detailed argument on other questions. The clue was pretty simple. We wanted to maintain the same conditions for employing Czech and Ukrainian employees and this is what our proposal meets. The proposals made by the Chamber of Tax Advisors went beyond that. We think that this is not the right approach, that it is necessary to maintain the same conditions for every employee who will work in the Czech company. That's the main reason. Then administrative reasons cause reporting whether the institute of temporary protection is sufficient or not. I think that was explained quite in detail. The proposal is not bad, however, we preferred equal access to all employees regardless of whether they come from the Czech Republic or if he is a refugee who escaped from the war and participated in the work process in the Czech Republic. This is the main reason why we have not accepted these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u9	Thank you and Mr Jiří Havránek is also in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u10	Good morning, dear colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, at first reading here from my honored colleague Patrik Nacher it was said that we could also use the three readings from the perspective of the mediation of this law and of the mediation and impact on taxes. I would like to mention here one point when, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, it was added to the questions and answers that you can deduct taxes provided in crypto-currencys as well. I consider it to be at least important to mention this, even for the reason that already a month ago, over $60 million in the Kryptomunity account of Ukraine as such appeared in the state, which is no longer a small amount, and, of course, Kryptomunity is active in the Czech Republic, so I also use this point to mediate the point that you really can deduct donations in cryptomunity from taxes. And I would like to thank Deputy Minister Kouba of the Ministry of Finance for adding this reference to - for me very well prepared - questions and answers to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u11	Thank you, too, and President Alena Schillerová is still reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u12	I thank the Minister for his answers. I didn't deliberately mention crypto-changes just to avoid mediating them. The MP did it for me, but that's not why I'm coming back here. I am coming here because I thank you, and I would also like to understand this: I understand this, but it will probably be the subject of the coordination committee afterwards, and to appeal - and I believe that my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance know this - on some methodical instruction for businessmen accounting, because it can be quite administratively difficult for them. But I say again, we will not make amendments on this subject. The good news here, the minister said, is that the accelerated write-off for 2022 is likely to be extended, even by 2023. This is very good news for entrepreneurs that it will follow up on the step that we, our government, have taken, and that legislation is being prepared there - I know, it has been preparing for a long time, we have already started it. It is not that simple, but it is good, and I certainly offer cooperation and I offer open access and maximum support, because these are things that have to go through one parliamentary term and must be here permanently. Please - but I believe it was not on purpose that the Minister had probably not done all of this - if your opinion could still fall on the waiver of VAT in the performance of humanitarian purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u13	Thank you for your contribution and caused a reaction. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u14	That's the thing we discussed. In the end, we decided not to deal with it. It's not about VAT, it's about whether they can apply it - the VAT they had. Our position at the moment and in this problem is negative because of administrative difficulty and I firmly believe that the one who decided to grant the gift to the Ukrainian party understands this and that the reason for this was certainly not so that he could also account for VAT when submitting VAT on the donation. The problem really exists, but the composition was quite complicated. We have chosen a simpler path, and I believe that this will not affect the amount of aid provided. At this point, I think we should generally thank all the donors who support the non-profit sector in the long term. It is precisely because we have difficult economic years, so perhaps the same amount of donations, would be a higher percentage from the tax base, so it is such a policy that those who have long-term contracts know that even if they may have a slightly worse economic result, they will fit the limit so that they can deduct it from the tax deduction. And the speed, actually, has been answered, the speed has actually responded to Ukraine. If we were just talking about the first point, that means extending the possibility of increasing the deduction rate from the tax base from 10 to 30, we wouldn't have to rush about that. On the other hand, if it passes through the House and the Senate, we will bring certainty to those who, for example, support the non-profit sector in the Czech Republic in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u15	Thank you, and the reaction has caused another reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u16	Only for a very short time. Thank you, Minister. I understand. Yes, it's complicated, but we chose it then, and now I'm talking about the VAT on covido aid. I'm not saying this because I'm lobbying for anyone here, I'm saying this because it was heard on the budget committee by the representatives of the Chamber of Tax Advisors. I don't need a reaction anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u17	Thank you, and therefore, because there are no more applications, I am ending the general debate. For the sake of order, will I ask whether there is an interest in the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur after the general debate? No, there were no proposals for a vote. I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. So now we have an open debate in detail. I am just making sure - well, there is no interest in presenting the proposals, and I am ending the detailed debate. Now, the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u18	Thank you, given that there was no amendment, I am calling on the President of my membership club to include a third reading on Friday, because there is no reason for the press to send the guarantee committee again, in this case budgetary. Since I think there is a broad political consensus here, perhaps we can find some firm time to discuss this on Friday and send this bill to the upper chamber. Well, I am awaiting that I have this ambition, and I believe that the House will support both the inclusion of a new point and a firm classification today so that we can end the legislative process in the lower chamber on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-002-122.u19	Thank you. Is the rapporteur still interested in the final word? He doesn't. And since there were no proposals for a vote, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[10.00 hours]] And we can move on to the next point. The next point is number
