ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning, honourable Members of the Government, and I am opening on the second day of the 8th session of the Chamber of Deputies. And, Madame, before I give you my word, I have to go over the standard formalities for the opening of the meeting and then you will continue your speech. [[Maríková]] So to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with ID cards, and if you're going to tell me if you're negotiating today and voting with a replacement card, tell me her number. For reasons of health, for Jana of health, for reasons of health, for reasons of health, Milan Wenzl of health, for Nováková of health, for reasons of health, for reasons of health, for Munzar of Philipp, for Exner of health, for Martin of health, for reasons of health, for Pastuchová of health, for Sadovský of health, for reasons of Adámková, for reasons of Hanzlíková, for Marek of health, for Ženíšek of health, for Adamová of health, for Válková of health, for Renata of Oulehlová, for Opltová of health, for Bělobrádek of health, for reasons of health, for Stržínek of health, for Jana of health, for Tureček of health, for Jaroslav of health, for Tomáš of Helebrant and for reasons of health, for reasons of apologies to Mr Igor Hendrych, Mr David Kasal, for Golasowská of health, for Věra of apologies Mr Klára Kocmanová, Tomáš Kohoutek, from 9.00 to 12.00 and from 18.00 to 24.00 for Fialová of work, Mr Václav Král, for Pavel of health Richterová of Mrs Ivana Mádlová, for reasons of Mrs. From among the members of the government, Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes from today for work reasons... [[Prime Minister Fiala is present.]] Oh, thank you, Prime Minister, so your apology is canceled, you are present for the meeting today. And further apologizes from today's meeting, Minister Ivan Bartoš, for no reason. So we will now continue with the proposals for amending or supplementing the proposal for the 8th meeting, as stated on the invitation. That brings us back to the debate. I thank you, Madame, for your patience, and I ask you to complete your proposal to adjust the agenda. As well as the rest of you, colleagues and colleagues, from the left side of the hall... from the left side of the hall, colleagues and colleagues... and from the right side of the hall, I ask you to keep your voice down so that the Member can finish her speech in peace. [[The noisies of the speaking Members.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will return to the isolation and quarantine, which can be ordered orally, in writing or by help, in the form of a text message. How the author of the amendment came to believe that it is possible to use this institute, which I mentioned, does not apply to restricting the right to personal freedom or freedom of movement, and it is a mystery to use it illogically where intervention is taking place in these freedoms. It is also incomprehensible how the author of the amendment concludes that he can explicitly exclude the procedure under the Administrative Rules in cases where public authority intervenes in the fundamental rights of natural persons. So we should certainly also discuss this within that point of mine, because that is a very controversial point and it is referred to by a number of lawyers. In conclusion, I'd say that the amendment to the pandemic law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u3	I apologise, Madame, I acknowledge that we have had a work night, which, of course, has been difficult, but all the more I would like to ask you for a collegiate to those who speak here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the opinion of the author, Dr. Vladana Vališová, the proposal for an amendment to the pandemic law, the requirement for legislation restricting fundamental rights at least to the extent of the personal freedom mentioned here, the freedom of movement, where appropriate, is not met by accuracy, clarity in formulas and sufficient predictability. Therefore, I would like to ask you to support the inclusion of this point so that we can discuss it. If this is a limited debate and you want to discuss it in a legislative emergency, we should at least be able to discuss it within this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u5	Thank you, too. I noted your proposal. Mr. Oldřich Černý is also reporting for the agenda. Is he present? As he is not present, I am canceling this application for the debate. And since all the comments and applications have been made on the agenda, and I do not see any others, then we would deal with individual amendments. After all, I, my colleagues, will ask you for a little patience and patience, because there have been a lot of points. I'm going to call my colleagues from the lobby, then I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to load the individual proposals gradually, as they were during the whole evening and night. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm gonna check you out, I'm gonna ask you to sign-in. [[He's waiting a while.]] Colleagues, colleagues, the number of Members and Members in the Chamber has settled, and I will therefore approach individual points, and I will vote on each separately. If there's any reminder of how that point sounds, please respond, believe me, it's not my intention to change that point in any way. Let us begin with the points raised by President Okamura. The first point is the inclusion of a new point in the Government's pandemic law, which is unconstitutional and puts on a covido dictatorship. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda of today's meeting, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 7, 133 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 19, against 73, the proposal has been rejected. The second point from President Okamura is the inclusion of a new point Proposal for a solution for a price increase in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 8, 132 Members and Members registered, for proposal 55, against 75, the proposal was not accepted. [[9.10 hours]] The third is the proposal for a new point - discussion of violations of political agreements by government MPs. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of proposing this point, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 9, 134 Members and Members registered, for proposal 54, against 78, the proposal was not accepted. The next point is the Inability of the Government to enforce beneficial laws for people. It's a new point. I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this point on the program to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 10; 134 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 27, against 78, the proposal has been rejected. Another point to be included is why is the government sending Miroslav Kalousek to the Board of Directors of the VZP? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 11, 134 Members and Members signed, for proposal 54, against 77, no consent has been given to the proposal. The next item to be included on the agenda for the meeting is Strange funding of the STAN movement from tax havens in Cyprus. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 12, 136 Members are registered, for 56, against 77, this proposal has been rejected. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Seventh point, new point... I'm sorry, colleagues, but I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so I can hear what I'm saying and what we're voting on. The next item is Cumulation of the Chair of Pirates Ivan Bartoš in violation of the Pirate Code. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13; 136 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 56, against 78, this proposal has not been approved. We will now proceed to the vote on the draft agenda from President Radim Fiala. First of all, it's House Press 11, it's the Civil Code, if I may say so. It's House Press 11. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion that this item be placed on the agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 14, 136 Members and Members, for proposal 58, against 76, have not agreed with the proposal. As the second item, we will vote in Parliament's press 14, it is the proposal of Radim Fiala and it is the Civil Code, as amended. This concerns transparent accounts for non-profit organisations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is the vote number 15, 136 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 56, against 78, no consent has been given to the proposal. Now proposals from Mr Kobza. First of all, it's House press 13, criminal code, hateful ideologies. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 16, 136 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 22, against 76, no consent has been given to the proposal. It is also the House press 16, the amendment of the State Holiday Act. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 17, 135 Members and Members, for proposal 21, against 76, have not been agreed with this proposal. And the third point presented by the Member is the discussion on the supply of natural gas to the Czech Republic and the price for the citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 18, 135 Members are registered, for 57, against 76, no consent has been given to the proposal. It is now Mr Radek Koten's proposals. The first point was called the Green Deal - about the hypocrisy of the government and the imports of coal into Ostrava from Australia. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 19, 135 Members and Members, for proposal 19, against 76, have not agreed with the proposal. Furthermore, there is a proposal for the inclusion of the Amendment to the Copyright Act, House Press 15. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 20, 136 Members and Members signed, for proposal 55, against 75, the proposal was not accepted. And then there's the third point, and it's called my house, my castle - criminal code - classification of this point. I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's up for this point to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21, 136 Members are registered, for proposal 19, against 75, and this proposal has not been adopted. There is now Mr Jan Hrnčíř's proposal, and this is the Bill amending Act No. 586 on income taxes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 22, 137 Members and Members registered, for proposal 56, against 78. The motion was denied. There is also a proposal from Mr Jaroslav Foldyna - Detailed information from the Government on the donation of ammunition to Ukraine. I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's up for this point to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 23; 137 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 57, against 75, this proposal has been rejected. [[9.20 hours]] There is also a proposal from Jaroslav Bašta. This item is the Information of the Government on the latest developments in the crisis in Ukraine. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against this point? It is a vote with order number 24, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 58, against 75, this proposal has been rejected. There is also a point by Mrs Karla Maříková, who is called the Epidemiological situation and the resistance of the population to another wave. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against this point? It is a vote with order number 25; 139 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 58, against 77, no consent has been given to this proposal. The next item is the item by Mrs Marie Pošarová, who is the Income Tax, it is the House Press 23. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 26; 139 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 59, against 77, the proposal has been rejected. The next item is Mr Vladimír Zlínský. The point is a comparison of the social credit system in China and anti-covoid measures in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 27; 139 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 20, against 78, this proposal has not been adopted. The next proposal is from Mrs Marie Pošarová, and this item is Agriculture, redistribution payment, food self-sufficiency. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 28, 139 Members and Members, for proposal 59, against 78, have not agreed to this item. The next item was presented by Mr Jan Síla, and this item is called the National Referendum Act. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 29, registered 139 Members and Members, for proposal 20, against 77, this proposal has not been adopted. The next item is the item by Mr Oldřich Černý. It's House Press 72, veterinary law. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this item being placed on the agenda for the meeting, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 30, registered 138 Members, for 57, against 75, this proposal has not been adopted. The next proposal is from Mr Zdeněk Kettner. It is a new point, a discussion on restricting freedom of expression of thought and the role of the media. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 31, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 21, against 76, no consent has been given to the proposal. Before I go on, I want to ask if there is any objection to the vote, or can I continue? Looks like I can go on. Okay. Another point was presented by Mr Radovan Vích, and that point is the Bill amending Act No. 586, on income taxes. It's House Press 22. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 32, 137 Members and Members, for proposal 59, against 76, have not agreed with the proposal. Next is the item by Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who wants to include Act 111 on aid in material distress, House Press 3. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal and putting a point on the agenda of the meeting, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 33, registered 138 Members, for 60, against 75, no agreement has been given. The next item is also Mrs Lucie Šafránková, and it is Act 108 on Social Services, House Press 9. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 34, 138 Members are registered, for 58, against 74, this item has not been agreed with. The next proposal is from Mrs Iveta Štefanová. The item bears the title of the Act on the amendment and repeal of certain laws in connection with the abolition of judicial executors. It's a new point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 35, 138 Members and Members signed, for proposal 21, against proposal 76, no agreement has been given on this proposal. The next item is the item by Mr Radek Rozvoral, who is the Constitutional Act amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the House Press 7, the direct election of mayors and captains. I begin the vote and ask who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with serial number 36. 138 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 21, against 76. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another point was proposed by Mr Karel Sládeček. The item is the Amendment to the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials. It's House press number 25. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this item being put on the agenda, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 37, 139 Members and Members have signed up, for proposal 58, against 76, no agreement has been given. Another point was presented by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, who is called Amendment to Law No.120 on judicial executions and enforcement activities and on the amendment of other laws, as amended. It's House press number 10. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 38, 139 Members and Members signed, for proposal 20, against 77, no agreement has been given. [[9.30 hours]] The next item was presented by Mr Vladimír Zlínský, a point called Blackout Threat and how to prepare for this situation. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of proposing this point to be included on the agenda, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against this point? It is a vote with order number 39, 139 Members and Members, for 22, against 76, have not agreed with the proposal. Mr Radek Koten's proposal is also here, and the item is Treatment of positive covid practice on time. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this item being put on the agenda, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 40, 139 Members and Members signed, for proposal 20, against 78, the proposal was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Marie Pošarová. The item is Information on the situation on the electricity and gas market. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of proposing this point to be included on the agenda, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 41, 139 Members and Members, for proposal 57, against 76, have not agreed with the proposal. And the last point I have here is that of Mrs Karla Maříková, and that point is the restriction of freedom in connection with the adoption of the pandemic law. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this item being placed on the agenda for the meeting, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 42, 139 Members are registered, for 22, against 77, no consent has been given to the item. For the record, I'm just asking - I'll give you my word - did all the proposals come out? All the proposals that have been made have been voted on? Thank you. Now, I presume you have the floor to vote, please, Congressman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u6	Hello, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to vote number four, I voted no, I have a yes on the record. This is only for the log. I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u7	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, I've been dealing with something here, does that mean only for the log? [[Yes.]] Thank you. So we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made on the agenda, and we will now vote on the entire proposal for the 8th session of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted. I'm asking if I should read the draft point that was part of the invitation? No other points have been added to the program. So I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you all out first, sign up with your registration cards. And now I will vote on the agenda of the meeting as it was sent in the invitation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's on the agenda to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 43; 139 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 78, against 60. I can say that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. Now I'm going to ask for a moment of patience because I'm going to read the note. Today, Minister Ivan Bartoš apologizes from the 8th meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. In addition, today between 15 and 21 o'clock or, respectively, by the end of the day, for working reasons, Mrs Romana Fischerová. Today between 9 a.m. and 10 p.m., Mrs Petra Quittová apologizes, and Minister Jan Lipavský apologizes for reasons of employment from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Next, between 12 o'clock and midnight for family reasons, Mrs Petra Quittová apologizes. Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes today for reasons of work, and Mr Viktor Vojtko apologises between 10 and 12 o'clock for reasons of work. Today from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. due to the doctor's visit, Mr. Jiří Strýček apologizes. Today, for work reasons, Mr Petr Vrána apologizes. On account of the illness, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes today. And today, from 8:45 pm to the end of the day for work reasons, Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes. Also today, due to illness, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] We will therefore now proceed to discuss the approved agenda for the meeting. Anyway, before discussing a government bill amending Law No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 diseases and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court's finding... I'm sorry, coworkers and colleagues. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. ... the laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court's finding published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease, it is the House press 127, shortened negotiations. Here we would according to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am here opening up a debate and registering two applications just for the sake of order. The first is Mr Radek Vondráček and then Mr Patrik Nacher. Now the debate is open and I ask you, Minister, to release, Minister of Justice.... Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[Access to the pitch]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I feel, after everything that happened this night, that I applied to discuss this point in a completely different time, in another century, that it is no longer partially relevant. But I think that part of the debate that was going on all night, and the arguments were supposed to be going off right now. Now is the right time to talk about fulfilling the conditions for short driving. [[9.40 hours]] I admit that I really thought, and I believed that when it broke down around 10:00 p.m. and the grémium sat down, I believed in some kind of deal. I believed that we would agree on a procedure where common sense would prevail and we would say that the conditions for short-term proceedings were not fulfilled and that it would essentially disqualify the law that you are now presenting because the conditions that the Constitutional Court has consistently interpreted are not met. I'm surprised at the coalition, I'm surprised at the capriciousness and the bulwarkness that they want to push this thing through in a state of legislative emergency. I think the reasonable people in this House could have agreed that there would be a quick first reading, a shortened second reading, and then a shortened third reading. Unfortunately, we missed this chance, and we spent some of our nights here together. And I actually have a very similar speech now, which I had before the law, which we reduced the salaries of constitutional officials, because the situation is basically exactly the same. We have here the case law of the Constitutional Court, which has already addressed this issue and which says that we are to interpret everything restrictively. I don't know what was said last night. I don't think it's humanly possible that no one listened to the whole thing, so I don't know what was said here. And I really want to point out, as part of the legitimacy of the debate before the adoption of the law, I want it to sound like a microphone, because the probability that the Constitutional Court is likely to do so is quite high, as I have heard in the gallows. I can quote you on the constitutional... Part of it. Part of it, I do not want to delay, I really do not build here, but I would like to read for those colleagues who do not know it only the legal sentence of the Constitutional Court finding, which states that "though the institute is a state of legislative emergency exclusively a legal institute, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it must be interpreted by the principle of principle that is deducable from the normative principle of democracy." - There is a reference to Art. 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic. - "Therefore, the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency must be interpreted very restrictively. The reasons for its application must indisputably be legitimate and constitutionally accessible, and their evaluation must be subject to the strictest standards. In order to avoid the will or will of the ruling majority, such reasons must be interpreted in detail, properly and revised, as required by the doctrine of restricting fundamental rights and resulting from the ideas of claims for fair decision-making. It is also necessary to measure respect for all the above-mentioned rights and principles governing the legislative process, this time already under the procedure foreseen for the state of legislative emergency. In particular, because there is a clear reduction in legislative procedures and restrictions on the rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as the relativisation of democratic principles of the ordinary legislative process, and therefore any further reduction or limitation of rights and principles should be considered extremely serious, as there is a risk of denying the rights of the opposition as well as a democratic principle, which could affect the quality of democracy seriously and permanently at least in its social perception of civil society." - The end of the Constitutional Court quote, which seems to be talking about the situation we're in right now. We all remember how the pandemic law came into being. When we look at it with very simple common sense, as it was: We met here at the time when the opposition, now the coalition, refused to extend the emergency situation and threatened really enormous damage in situations where we had full hospitals and died in the Czech Republic. Then thanks to the captains, the emergency has been declared once more. However, under pressure not to tear this place apart as a steam boiler, we dropped the pressure of the debate and decided to compromise the pandemic law. And I confess, I'm openly saying it here, I'm the one who promoted it in the "ANO" membership club. But also knowing that it's a provisional, that it's a fixed-term adjustment. For God's sake, at least this parameter has already been announced by the coalition to change, and so has been discussed on the committee responsible. A pandemic condition is nothing but a severed emergency. And the emergency itself is nothing more than a legal framework that allows for further action. The whole discussion is basically absurd, the whole night was basically useless from my point of view, because there was a demonization of an emergency situation that just shouldn't have happened. We have reached a political impasse where no one simply wants to retreat. And I've been thinking for half the night that someone here should report: common sense absent, moved to Humpole, apparently. Now there's a question of course, could you admit it wasn't a good idea, could you do it first, second, third reading? I just don't understand why we didn't do it if you want the law to apply, and you don't want the Constitutional Court to successfully abolish it, because there are, of course, other flaws that the law is suffering, but I'm not going to talk about them in this part of the debate. But why, at least together, have we not removed the doubts that I have been discussing all this time by the ordinary legislative process? There must be a clear explanation of why it is possible to discuss it in the accelerated procedure. There really must be an emergency here. Currently exist. Here we cannot accept any insurance for the future by means of a reduced procedure in a state of legislative emergency. And I recorded the interview of Prime Minister Fiala from January 28 for the Czech Radio, where he said that he wished and that he hoped that the pandemic law would not be necessary, but that for preventive reasons it was necessary to adopt it. Thus, he himself admits that the absolute intensity of the immediate need to adopt such a standard is lacking. The Minister of Health said a week earlier in his statement that the situation is excellent, we will relax, optimistic scenarios are such and such. He himself admits that the situation is not in a state where we can consider a state of legislative emergency. Yet you have chosen this path, which I consider extremely unfortunate in a situation where there is talk of mitigating measures, at the same time to enforce in a state of legislative emergency a law that actually interferes with the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And it's a simple law. Whereas the emergency situation is declared on the basis of crisis law and crisis legislation, which has constitutional anchoring, at the level of the constitutional law. The pandemic law is simply a hybrid, it is a pasquil that we adopted for a reason because we wanted to address the current situation. But the situation now does not warrant all of us to discuss the proposal in a reduced procedure. And to accept this as some kind of insurance policy for the future, I will read you another sentence that fits exactly with today's subject and which is also from the Constitutional Court's pen: "In particular, it must be stressed that the condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is not only a threat of certain negative consequences, but, above all, the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. " - Once again, there is a reference to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, § 99 para. 1. I don't want to be too long because that night was really hard. [[9.50 hours]] What the Constitutional finding also refers to is that the reasons must be detailed, duly and revised. I will not forgive such a tiny notic here if you have actually read the explanatory report of this law, because it says here: "The high risk to public health is also shown by the current wave caused by the Delta variant that hit the European continent most, and there is currently a massive spread of disease across the continent and, in this context, the need to take specific antiepidemic measures to prevent the spread of disease in the population and minimise the effects on public health." So this explanatory report was adopted by the government on January 10, when omicron was already clearly dominated, and Members were distributed on January 20, when omicron was already more than 95 percent of the covid-19 disease in the whole republic. So you didn't even take the job to rewrite it to an omicron. And of course there's a reason. You're arguing delta mutations here, so maybe we could talk about a state of legislative emergency and abridged procedure, but the explanatory memorandum wasn't up to date at the time of the government's approval. Then why in God's name didn't anyone read it after themselves? I can't explain it. If it was on the table on the government and then they just took it and approved it? Or did someone actually deliberately distort the reasons? Otherwise, the reasons for the accelerated procedure are in part J of the explanatory memorandum. And let me tell you, these few lines are really very weak to bend the Rules of Procedure here. In the course of negotiations and in the media, the coalition announced in advance that the law would be reduced, that it would not be permanent. This was also the case with the committee. But it has also been announced that there will be a reduction in draconian fines, that text messages will only be from controllable numbers and so on. That means, the plaintiffs themselves know that the standard isn't perfect, that the standard needs to be improved. And you insist equally smugly that we do it in a short procedure, when reading the third immediately follows the second reading. You think we're gonna fix this place after some of them lasted here all night, and it's gonna be perfect, and it's gonna be perfect. What's stopping us from doing it in 14 days and doing it right? I don't get it. I understand that there's a spiral or a carousel of mutual purpose, obstruction, that the atmosphere is simply not constructive. But all the more so, we should try to get the committee to discuss this and to discuss it calmly and to make possible amendments good. The YES movement did not extend to this law. We don't like the law, and we don't support it with our vote. But at the same time, we respect that it is the will of the majority. And you'll be responsible for her, for the legal standard. Not us. Then you'll sort of settle accounts for her to your constituents. So we respected that. All we wanted -- I mean, I wanted it yesterday -- I didn't know I was coming in at 10:00 in the morning for the next day -- all we wanted to do was do it right. So, basically, at this point, I can call on you one last time, and I have one last chance to ask you to vote against the short-term procedure in this vote that will now come, the short-term procedure. The text arrived more than 10 days before the beginning of the meeting, so the conditions for the first reading are fulfilled. Please, let's not vote for shortcuts. The text automatically begins to be discussed in the first reading. And I hope that on behalf of our club, too, I can say that we would vote in favour of shortening the time limits for second reading, we would vote in favour of shortening the deadline at third reading. I am definitely denying what the whole explanatory report says is that there will be significant damage to public health. First of all, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are telling us that it's okay and that it's getting better. And secondly, there really is a possibility, if something serious happens, to declare an emergency for a shorter time. There's no immediate damage. They are not met here for the accelerated procedure. Please, I'm here as a constructive lawyer, as a representative of the opposition, but basically I want to help you. Try to think about it one more time and vote with reason, not by being all out of control about what's been going on in this Chamber of Deputies lately. Believe me, it doesn't please me either. And I hope that in the near future, there will be some reasonable people who will sit at the table and start talking to each other about how we want to live here for four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your point of view in the debate. For the record, I'm merely following a factual remark from Minister Pavel Blažek. I don't see him, that means I'll erase him. Mr Vondráček has yet to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u10	It's a good thing that Pavel Blažek volunteered. I forgot to tell you, I had it prepared for you to have a government statement in your programming that you'd want to make it clear and simplify the rule of law. By adopting the pandemic law, you certainly do the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u11	Thank you. Minister of Justice, I would like to ask if your factual application for the debate is valid or if you have not applied? [[Minister Blažek in the alley: "He did not report. It's more of a cliché of the opposition." Laughs of several Members.]] Minister, everyone is responsible for their card and voting equipment. I have here a factual comment by Mr Ondřej Lochman. Then I'll just repeat what the order looks like. Mr Nacher is signed in, followed by Mr Okamura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u12	Have a nice day, fellow Members, Mr President, Dear Ministers. I only have a few words to say about it. If your last government had prepared a law that would have been a permanent norm if you had prepared it and left it here for the government that had it here for about a month and a half, including Christmas, we didn't have to be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u13	Mr Vondráček's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u14	Mr colleague, through the President, that is certainly true, but you will not succeed in saying what we have done wrong for four years. The truth is, there's a new crisis law here, and the legislation in the last parliamentary term was. It was in charge of the Ministry of the Interior and was presented by Minister Jan Hamáček. It didn't come with a very positive reaction within the Institute Committee and then the work seemed to fall asleep. And you're absolutely right to do it properly. But not a pandemic law. And now you've had that chance, too, because one day it's written. So change the State Security Act. If you say that an emergency is not appropriate for pandemics, and those arguments exist, I agree, if there is to be another regime, similar to an emergency, suitable for dealing with an epidemic, it should be at the level of the constitutional law. But it also means you're gonna talk to us because you're gonna need 120 votes. I'm ready for this debate immediately. Thank you for the reminder. I ask the government to present a constitutional law that solves this situation, and let us abolish the pandemic law itself. And if the situation gets better, and I'm knocking on wood here, it's not funny, because hospital occupancy is increasing, 11 regions report hospital occupation problems, because there's just no nurses, ambulances, and these professions that have little kids and they're at home in quarantine. For God's sake, there are fewer people in the ICU who are at risk for life. But hospitals still go with a lot of weight. But if the situation proves to be better, I am immediately prepared, my colleague, to discuss the constitutional law with you. And let's get rid of the pandemic law that really paused them, as our Prime Minister said 24 hours ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u15	Thank you. With the factual remark of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, I must respond to Mr Lochman, by your means, because he was not here during the previous term of office, so I would like to set him straight with regard to the pandemic law. Who came up with the pandemic law? With the pandemic law, the opposition came in the past term and sought agreement across the political spectrum. So if you're going to the speaker's desk, please get the information before you say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u17	Thank you, too. Now, let me get this straight. Mr. Secretary, do you have a point of fact? In that case, the Minister and then Mr Ondřej Lochman with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am far from looking for the culprit of anything anywhere. I hope that we will talk pragmatically about what the situation is, what happens when we take step A, what happens if we don't do what happens next, and this is how I have an explanation for the pandemic law, all the conventions that would have been if the pandemic law had not been approved. But there's one thing I dare say in this place, and I will say it in detail. Resolution 512, the resolution of the previous government, the resolution is from 7. 5. 2020 where the Government, in cooperation with the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Justice and the Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government, imposed on the Minister of Health and the Minister of Defence the involvement of Members, the House and so on, using current knowledge and experience on the epidemic designated as SARS-CoV-2, to prepare proposals for amendments to the legislation governing measures applicable to the management of the epidemic and to submit them to the Government by 30 September 2020. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček, ČSSD, said that an amendment to the Constitutional Security Act will be prepared, which will anchor an extraordinary pandemic state. If the novel had been prepared, I would have used it with a taste, with a taste, if the finger had been moved on it, I would have turned it over to this government. Nothing happened at the novel based on information from both departments that the Ministry of the Interior was unable to negotiate with the Ministry of Health. I'm not evaluating it, there was just something going on here, there was a tough situation, there were a lot of sick people, so all I have to do is use what the government used. Nothing else has been prepared. Too bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u19	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Your speech raised another point of fact and I would ask that Mr Bohuslav Svoboda come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. So my comment was not made by the Minister, as it was said here before. I would very much ask that we stop talking about putting all this negotiations away and doing this very slowly. We in these hospitals really have more water than knee-deep, we have it almost to our necks, and we need to have absolutely clear boundaries on how this situation will continue to develop. The law ends at the end of the month, and we're gonna stand back in the air and wait for something to be said here in a form that's better or worse. The situation is that we, not speaking as an MP right now, but as a health service, are asking the Chamber of Deputies to make quick decisions about these things, because we can't, we can't work with the knowledge that we're likely to grow seriously ill, not during the covide, but in three Sundays, a month after he's lost, people will come to us with the complications and those children with the cardiac complications. That is the crucial reason why we need to close this thing down. We have worked very hard to remove all the issues that are there, the questions of the amount of fines, the questions of the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs and so on, and it will be a very clear guide on how to continue in this country. But I would ask the Chamber of Deputies very much to give a clear opinion and, if possible, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. At this point, we are in a debate. Another enrollment is Mr Patrik Nacher. I'm gonna ask him to come to the speaker's desk, and before he does, I'd like to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Feranc, who apologizes for health reasons for today's meeting on February 2nd. Furthermore, the apology of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, from 9 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, of Rudolf Salvetr's apology, for health reasons, for today's meeting. We also have an apology, Mr Michal Ratiborský, on the day 2. 2. to 4. 2. for reasons of work, Ivo Vondrák's apology, today between 14.30 and midnight for reasons of meeting in the electoral region. And then I have an apology from Mrs. Monika Oborná, and this is today because of a doctor's visit. And lastly, Mr Hendrych's apology, from 9 a.m. to the end of the day. I don't see the reason here. So they were all apologies. At this point, I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher for a debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice morning on the second day of the meeting. I'm going to be unusually brief right now, because as far as the content is concerned, I'm prepared to perform under the pandemic law, but at this point, I'd like to focus my attention, and I'd like to ask you a question best about the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health. Neither one of them is here, so I don't know who's gonna answer - he's over there. [[Minister Wark off microphone: I am not visible.]] The minister is a little bigger than me, and yet he was not visible - for a state of legislative emergency. When you look, and you certainly know that a state of legislative emergency can be applied in the event of, quote, exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when a state is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. Among other things. Well, I did my job, and I compared the numbers that are from today, and the numbers that were a year ago when the original pandemic law was adopted. So that's when the vaccination rate was 2.5 percent for people over 12 years, now it's 72.5 percent. 2.5 percent and before that, 72.5 percent, then I'm going to say a specific number in that speech. My colleague, you can check it out. There were 7 176 patients in the hospitals before, and now there's 2.066. She was in serious condition before 1,531, now 181. Those are the facts. This means that the vaccination rate is 30 times higher, the number of patients in the hospital is 2.5 times smaller and the number of patients in a serious condition is 8.5 times smaller. So I'd like to ask you, what's the state of the legislative emergency in? I'm not questioning the point itself, though I disagree with it and I won't vote for it, for the pandemic law, but why can't it be discussed in the classic proceedings, as we're used to here, even with shorter deadlines? In my opinion, the legislative emergency is not fulfilled. I have said clear numbers here, and I remember very well that even then there was quite a problem with the legislative emergency. Now the numbers are visibly, verifiable, you can verify it, they're much better. When I look at the number of positive tests, which is also interesting, there is even more disproportion and it shows something about the delta variant in relation to the omicron, then on 26 February it was 14 676 positive and now that I take the last three working days, it's 47 200, 34 500 and today it's a record of almost 67,000. This means that the number of positives is multiplied by the number of pressures per hospital is multiplied by the number of pressures per hospital. I'm really interested in the specifics, it's a decent question, a serious question, it's not something that's filled with the state of the legislative emergency, that we have to approve this important intervention, which is almost a year, in a legislative emergency, in a hurry and in this way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u23	Thank you, too. I've got two factual points being announced here. I know I've been briefed by the Minister, but I want to know, because there's a point of fact to the priority right, so you're applying to the facts? Okay. So the Minister has a point of fact, because I would have to give priority to factual and then preferential law. Minister, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam President, by your means, thank you, Mr Member, for the question. And a decent answer to a decent question. Yes, I have also repeatedly said in the media that even now the number of positive tests will increase, and this will also happen at the beginning of next week, but now the wave is only getting to seniors. That means, starting today, the increase in hospitals will continue for another week to 14 days. And what's crucial is that the omicron doesn't break the second dose. The third dose doesn't break, now we'll see how it breaks through the second dose, and that's different in different countries. It'll be two to three more weeks, then it'll start to fall. But this is just part of the problem, there's no time for it in two minutes, and it's probably at that stage if the program is approved, where I'll explain why this trip. I would much rather have a crisis law where individual types of pandemics, epidemics and endemics can be taken into account and worked according to it. I would also like it if the Health Act had already been amended, or at least the amendment was ready for the Ministry, and I could have submitted it. But I guess it's time to explain exactly what's going to happen if there wasn't a pandemic law after the 28th. There is no third instrument. If it wasn't a pandemic law, it doesn't just involve shutting down the measures, and I'm going to explain in detail, just measures that, let's say, are restrictive, because I think there's generally a consensus that we want to go back to normal, and that's the plan, and so on, but it also applies that everything, including the smart quarantine, would have stopped working at that point. It's just that all these things that work today act as extraordinary measures under the pandemic law. That's reality. Yes, it is. That's how it was accepted, I can say which government approved it, I can say who put it, which of the ministers who were there, how they took turns. And we would become a risky country. [[Prime Minister, your time.]] And I'm going to explain the convention that we're a risky country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u25	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. We have two more factual points. I will ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda with a factual remark, and Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u26	This thing is extremely professionally complex. You can't work with numbers like this in medicine, because when different numbers and different groups of people and different infections enter it, the results can be completely different. The data you're saying doesn't say anything about what it's gonna look like. What he's gonna do with an omicron that's gonna push him out, mutate him, and how it's gonna continue with those people who have continued the infection in three weeks, in a month. We don't know. All we can do is worry about the signals we have that it's gonna run, and it's gonna be another wave that's gonna fill those hospitals. And one last thing. The moment we cancel all this, people will come to the border and they will be able to pass through without being controlled in any way. We will become a country that will be no problem for tourists, they will not have to show anything. We're going to become a country where we're going out and we're not going to have a green dot, we're all going to have an invalid signal. And that's a very complicated thing to do. And opening those borders is also a very difficult thing. But I'm saying again, the infection will behave somehow. We predict behavior, we can't define it, we can't define how the coronavirus mutates, but very likely it will. Every flu virus does it, why wouldn't this one do it and become polite all of a sudden? We just have to be prepared, and we have to have the means to prevent it from turning out like we did two years ago in January, when we warned here, no one did anything, and then it turned out how it turned out. I'd hate for it to happen again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u27	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time. We have other factual points here. I ask that Mr Radek Vondráček come to the speaker's desk and prepare Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. As you can see, from my point of view, this debate makes sense. I don't want to get involved in petty disputes, but I said in that speech that it was already here, I remembered, it was being handled by the Constitutional Commission. But the crisis law, Mr. Health Minister, was submitted, it was processed, it was press 1111, it was rejected by the Senate, and we did not vote over the Senate. And then there he was again, the previous option wanted to accept it in a state of legislative emergency and failed, there was a great opposition. So it's not like it's changing anything for today's debate, but just don't say it hasn't moved a finger and there's no comma. That standard exists, the new government may have come back to it, apparently Minister Rakušan has it hidden in his drawer somewhere, and we could have discussed it. But I'd like to take advantage of the fact that we have the Minister of Health here and he's in a sympathetic mood, so I'd like to ask him what are you going to do with the vaccination? Because at this point, we have a third of the population in the third dose. If they are relaxing in Denmark, they are completely shutting down vaccination sites under a different vaccination situation than in the Czech Republic. So if there's a slightly optimistic view right now, you're saying that it doesn't look that optimistic, so let's agree whether there's a crisis and you want a pandemic law, or it's better, as you say to citizens in conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u29	I thank you for your time and I would ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber, and I would ask you again if you need to take care of something to go to the lobby. I have two factual points being announced here at the moment. The first is Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Julius Špičák will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u30	Thank you. Thank you for the answer. I think this debate makes perfect sense, I don't know if anyone's been watching this all night, but this is exactly what I think is going to happen here in the Chamber of Deputies. But I'm gonna specify the question, because I feel as much as I appreciate the fact that you responded to me right away, that you didn't answer exactly. I didn't ask for the contents of the pandemic law, I'll get to that when the point comes up, or when we talk about it. I have some questions for him divided into different chapters. No, I'm asking you now about using this state of legislative emergency. That's what I'm saying. Because I'm comparing numbers a year ago when the legislative emergency mechanism was used, and the current numbers that are diametrically somewhere else, plus... Well, if I take it from the inoculation, those people were told it was a dot, maybe a colon, a comma, a semicolon, let's have some fun. But the moment the vaccination rate is 30 times bigger year on year, using the same legislative emergency mechanism, with the fundamental threat to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, as I said, let's not hold it up, I don't think it's right. It's not about the pandemic law right now, it's about the use of legislative emergency. Second comment. You say, Minister, I saw it somewhere in the interview that we're two weeks behind the Omicron in Western Europe. I read that yesterday Denmark completely canceled, Norway canceled various measures today over the morning. That means it can reasonably be expected to reach us within three weeks. In other words, even the assumption that the Professor Svoboda was referring to also shows that it should be directed more towards dislodgement when we copy three weeks after those countries. That means, again, why are we taking advantage of the legislative emergency? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Because now we're at the point of whether or not there's a right to a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u31	Ambassador, your time limit is up. I'm sorry. Thank you. Another with a point of fact, Mr Julius Špičák. Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, to express the previous speakers and to the real, truly epidemic situation. First of all, I don't think there's a dispute that he needs a legal standard and that the emergency situation isn't an ideal legal standard, but why not have a legal standard that will be functional and that will not be questioned and attacked from the very beginning? So that's the first thing, and it's been mentioned repeatedly, and now my previous speaker, Mr. Nacher, said it. And now I have to say, let's look at the opinions of really strong weights in the field of virology and immunology, none of which sit here. They're all totally against the spirit of our factual measures that we're planning here. It has already been mentioned here by my colleague Nacher that the surrounding countries are simply relaxing, regardless of the fact that even in these countries, the increase is essentially very dynamic. And otherwise, I have to say, if we get any more sick people, the same year of hospital patients, it's not gonna save any law, but it's gonna be because there's low vaccination, and that's not what we're dealing with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u33	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. We are at the moment in the debate, and at the moment the SPD President is in the debate, but at the moment I have a factual comment from Vladimír Zlínský of the SPD, so please. I'm sorry, it was exactly at the time. So, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question about the Professor of Svoboda. I'm sorry, Mr. Docent, I have a question for you. [[President: Through Mr President.]] You mentioned here that they're...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u35	Through Mr President or Madam President, please, you must address Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u36	I'm sorry. Then I'd like to ask you a question about Mr. Docent. He mentioned that there were some indications that there was a wave of trouble coming at us. Either - I didn't get it, if it was some new mutation, or it was supposed to be some subsequent complication of post-covide syndrome, if you could make it more clear to us what it was, because the information was a little vague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u37	Ambassador, thank you for your point of order and for keeping time. At this point, I see that Mr Bohuslav Svoboda has applied to another factual point and to a possible response. Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u38	Yes, I'd be happy to answer that question. One thing we know safely is that there are late complications. Especially the worst of it is the late complications in children, where it causes a fatal heart condition that comes in and is just within 24 hours, the baby can't be saved. So it's a late complication. We can theoretically assume that the late complications will be in those adults, because we have a very important group of long-term inability to work, because these people have had a light covid, but they have joint pains, headaches and are unable to vegetate normally. And none of us can prophesy 100% forward. And it's very different in Denmark and here. It turns out that the covid has some kind of genetic information, because it's a completely different way of going, I have to say, in nigger patients, it's just because they have different genetic equipment and it works for her. So comparing one country to another, Nordic to the next, I would warn you very much about that. I just can't. They're different groups.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u39	Mr. Ambassador, thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. That was the last factual point, so we are going back to the debate, and I will ask that the chair of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, come to the speaker's desk. Before he gets here, I'd like to read one more apology. From this day on, Mr Šalomoun, Minister of Legislation, apologizes for health reasons, for the whole of today's negotiations. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing here the government's proposal for a pandemic law, which the government wants to restrict by the constitution guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, and now we have come to the moment when we are to vote here on whether there are conditions for this government law to be discussed in a short procedure. On behalf of the SPD, I make it clear that there are no conditions for us to act in a reduced procedure. We want to discuss this law in all three readings. Of course, we want to reject him. There will be a vote on our motion to reject the pandemic law. But either way, since you're presenting it, this discussion should be standard in all three readings and in due course. So all three readings and proper deadlines. That, in our opinion, is the right course of action. And I'll tell you why, of course. First of all, at the moment I was talking about, and this has already been voted on, and you've outrun us here, even though we've justified it for about 17 hours here, so we can see that the state of legislative emergency and, by extension, we can see it on the conditions for the law to be discussed in short terms, so it can only be done in the event of exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the state is threatened with significant economic damage. Otherwise, it's an emergency. This is the strength to push the so-called pandemic law, which is just an otherwise-named emergency situation that you want to limit, limit across borders, you want to have a blank check to restrict the right to do business for citizens, the right to private social life, the right to education. It's just a totalitarian proposal, and it needs to be rejected. So it doesn't meet the terms here. So, in our opinion, this law should be discussed in a proper course of action, not in such a move. And I will, of course, justify further proposals. Firstly, your bill has repeatedly linked different consequences to the existence of an epidemic, but an epidemic of a particular disease without, however, any binding legal definition of that term. So you can essentially show yourself, the Minister of Health or the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Defence, so here is an epidemic, yet there is no legal definition of what it is, and on this basis you will restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. Flat, of course. Well, that's the first of several unacceptable moments in your bill. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum to your law does not explain properly or sufficiently why the authority to issue emergency measures should notabene now that European countries are relaxing and dropping completely from the measure - Britain, Ireland, Denmark, today we have read that Norway, already approaches this way, Spain is considering, Austria, so the government of Petr Fiala is incomprehensiblely losing time and energy, as its priority here pushing the pandemic law to restrict citizens, to get a blank cheque to restrict citizens, for an indefinite period of time even the government has proposed it. Of course, it is totally unacceptable for us to have the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs, in addition to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior simply have the power to restrict these constitutional rights and freedoms. So that's another moment. Another moment that we consider to be very problematic, and it simply cannot be thrown in short-handed proceedings here, and you are going to make a hard speech here completely undemocratically, because I am not talking about democracy, that you have 107 Members here, because, as I said, you don't have 108, because Mr Farský is an MP, but he's not here, he's in America. He hasn't returned yet and he hasn't even passed his mandate, so he's still cheating voters, of course. It's the STAN movement. And of course, this is about the democracy, the constitutional one. And you don't have a constitutional majority, which is why I'm talking about it so that somebody here doesn't confuse apples with pears again, that they say, we have a majority of 107 here. Attention, but here we are talking about constitutionalism, that you want to restrict constitutional rights and freedoms. And you don't have a constitutional majority. It's not true. So here we see another clash. So, not only do we believe that this cannot be discussed in a legislative emergency, but also in a reduced procedure. We say again, we propose and will vote on our proposal, to reject the pandemic law, but either way, you simply push it incredibly completely to the strength that you want, you are so eager to restrict citizens, even though there is no pandemic here, that you simply want to shorten everything quickly so that no one can comment, and before citizens actually or before some citizens realize it, so that it is and already irreversibly possible. And of course, there's also a problematic moment here, and here we see it again, in the short-term proceedings, it just can't be discussed here that you're limiting, basically there's another restriction that Petr Fiala's government is proposing, the rights of children to education. But, as I have already mentioned, that is one of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, namely Art. 33 The Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and that is simply unacceptable! [[10.30 hours]] Next thing. You want, your government, this is the ODS coalition, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates, so, for example, you want to order people to stay away from other individuals. This is unbelievable! The family, for example, you tell them that on the basis of normal law, someone, the Minister of Health, everything, so, and you can't be with your grandmother, with your mom. Yes. Or even a daughter with her parents, because here you don't even specify what the department understands about stalling. That's an incredible act you're doing. But I'm saying again, you can't beat constitutional rights here by ordinary law, so it's not at all for a brief hearing. Again, we want to reject it in the proposal. I know there's only 20 of us in the SPD, fighting what we can here against the overwhelming majority of you. None of us slept here, you could take turns, some of you, as we know from the media, have taken sleeping bags, so you slept well here in the House, because you're 107. There are 20 of us, so obviously we haven't slept a wink, and we are fighting with all our strength against the overwhelming majority of you, which promotes a reduction in the rights and freedoms of citizens. Next, I'm saying again, what else do we see here? There's also a need for you to order this standard law of isolation or quarantine measure. This is also a crucial step, which represents an extraordinary intervention in fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. So we can't do this all in short, all legislative emergency. I've been calling you here since yesterday morning, to withdraw the law. Pull it back while there's still time. Because I think that many citizens of the Czech Republic can already see and ask: why are you pushing it like this instead of dealing with energy upheaval? Instead of devoteing all your energy to solving the increase in energy to citizens, increasing food? No, you don't have time for that. You don't have a proposal there, although you've been saying for a year that you're ready to rule both staff and program. But you're still pushing hard just two of your priorities here. The correspondence election, the pandemic law. You have no other program. Pandemic law, correspondence election. This is a disaster. A catastrophic state that you don't even have any laws prepared for people, of course. So, of course, the correspondence law, but it's still going to be discussed here in the future because you're afraid that you're going to fail the election, which is why you need a correspondence law that allows manipulation and fraud. Well, no wonder Mrs Pekarová from Top 09 or the Pirates are worried, aren't they? Because those preferences are either below 5% or falling steeply according to my information. So, of course, they're the first ones who want to change the law quickly to save themselves somehow. This means not working for citizens, but simply making these various special-purpose changes. And we're against it. We're against correspondence choices, of course. We don't need any manipulation, and we don't need any room here for any scams. So what I'm saying here is that it bothers us, too. It can't just be, it needs to be discussed. There's an argument to be made here. Another thing why we don't think it should be in a short trial here. So basically it's also the extension of effectiveness by law. I know, you want it for an unlimited period of time. Yeah, now all of a sudden under pressure from the SPD, okay, somebody's designing here by November. But the government proposal is that you're proposing it indefinitely, an extension. Yes, that's a government proposal. That's the proposal that came from the government. Not that I didn't. That's right. You even propose to limit fundamental rights and freedoms indefinitely. Indefinitely. That's right. And after the pressure of the SPD, but also to the public, parts of the public, quickly, quickly, because you will find that you are progressing paskvil, so amendment that by November. But that is a total incompetence of the government. When he presents the pasquil, and again, I have said it here today, the government Members themselves are making amendments to their own government proposal because it is bad and it is pasquil. Well, I've never seen that before. This is unbelievable! So instead of admitting it fair and downloading it, because it's already paskvil over paskvil and chaos on chaos and restrictions on freedom and freedom, because you've got yourself involved, so if I wanted to ask you here in the gallows what your next big complete changeling is, then your MPs don't even know what it contains, because you don't even know it yourself, it's really incredible. Unbelievable, dilettant amateurism. But the worst part is that it is extremely dangerous, because you want to restrict fundamental freedoms here by law, by a constitution guaranteed by citizens' freedoms and rights, even though there is no reason to do so. The next thing we have a problem with, of course, and why we think it shouldn't be in short proceedings, is that your bill... sorry, I'll just take a look at the notes... that your bill represents an entirely unconstitutional intervention of the legislative power in the executive power, even according to the current case law of the Constitutional Court. As I said before, the other thing about why it simply cannot be pushed so hard in the short-term proceedings is, and I have already pointed out here, I will just stress that the bill repeatedly operates with the concept of epidemic, although its legal or professional definition is lacking. An extremely dangerous bill. It's just really wrong. That instead of living in a legal state, a citizen will actually have to prove to you that he's actually okay and that you should actually allow him to live by the Constitution and just let him have the fundamental rights and freedoms. This is unbelievable! Next. The bill opens up a huge scope for enforcement to intervene in the integrity of the human body and to introduce experimental procedures in the exercise of state power, contrary to the general, moral and ethical principles enshrined in international conventions. That means, that's another thing we can't do. And I've already said it here in my previous speeches, which is why I'm not going to repeat it here, and I've discussed it in detail here. In detail, in a few hours, these exact passages. Of course, what is also a problem, and I also think that it cannot be ignored that your government bill is unprecedentedly limiting the claim to compensation for damage caused by legal and natural persons in the state of pandemic emergency. That means, you say, "You can't go to work." Because you're suggesting restrictions on business. You're suggesting exactly... you propose restrictions on business or similar activities, that is directly in the constitution, the right to do business. That's an unconstitutional proposal you're proposing. At the same time, you limit the right to compensation to legal and natural persons without precedent. Well, that's crazy. So you destroy people's lives will be arbitrary, and then nothing. You will limit your claim for damages. For example, loss of earnings is excluded from compensation. That means maybe you'll cover the poor businessman's rent or some employee's salary, but his profit, which is actually his salary and income, so you won't give him any more. You will destroy life, but he will depend on the doses of some, and no government responsibility. Those are just things you can't say in short. We want to introduce totalitarianism. We want to introduce covido totalitarianism, even though other countries in the world, many countries already, are relaxing it, on the contrary, you want to tighten up and expand the measures you want to restrict citizens. You're totally against everything. It's incredible what undemocratic appetites you have. The next thing is, which we just can't do in short proceedings again, we disagree, because you're introducing draconian fines here. Three million crowns for legal persons and businessmen, for example, if they do not put on a drape or use disinfectant. Well, that's crazy. Yes, thanks to the pressure of the SPD, you have also come here in haste with the amendment, so you acknowledge that you are presenting pasquila, so you must quickly, even government MPs themselves have prepared your proposal, which the government has prepared for them here, so they are quickly patching it up here, at least something, so it is already full of patches, so of course it will be a big problem. And I've already pointed out that the application of this law of yours, in practice it's gonna bring a lot of lawsuits and everything, you're gonna overwhelm the courts, because you don't even know it yourself, when the government presents the pasquil, which you're also changing with a changeling, you're already confused about it, and you have thousands of people in ministries, legal unions that should help prepare it. No, you just can't change it. Sure, Department employees, they work, we appreciate them. Well, the minister, the management, politically planted, he doesn't know how to conduct it. These are the people behind your government five-calice. [[10.40 hours]] You're even proposing a million fines on non-business individuals. For Grandma, for Grandpa, for the student. Where are they gonna get it? If they don't put on a drape or use disinfectant. You're out of your mind. This government has gone crazy. Crazy government! And then you realized that we blamed you in the media discussion here, so there's a changeling to humiliate the fines. Just admit it's wrong, that law of yours. You have one last chance, you have the last hours to do it - we will, of course, keep explaining it to you - but the last time is coming for you to download it. Maintain democracy in the Czech Republic, do not enforce totalitarian laws that go against what is happening today in Europe and the world. So these fines can't just be crossed here, we'll act in short, we'll open up a point here, and I'm waiting, and I hope you'll change your mind, limiting speaking time to five minutes. This is the goal of basically cutting off the opposition from any possibility of arguing and basically pointing it out. So that's another thing that we don't think can just be in the short-term proceedings. What I'm sure I would like to stress here, and you can't push through here in such a short way, is that the decision about some of the offences that, based on this law of yours, otherwise essentially called an emergency state, are to be entered in the criminal record, so the bullying of citizens reaches an unprecedented peak in your submission. If I say this simply, who does not, for example, fulfil the obligation to wear protective or washing, cleaning or disinfection products, then the fine of a million to three million depending on whether it is a private person, there it is up to a million, or if it is a businessman or a legal person, it is up to three million. Plus, it's crazy in itself. How can you even think about giving an old lady up to a million tickets? You're out of your mind. I know that maybe the government Members have hundreds of thousands of salaries here, so they may not feel it, but I would like to point out that the average pension in the Czech Republic is around CZK 15,000. That's why people have to pay rent, make a living, often they have nothing left. And who can imagine proposing a million crowns fine? For the pandemic law? I don't know why you're promoting this, this way of restricting constitutional rights and freedoms. After all, to protect the health of citizens, there is a law on public health protection, a law of crisis, which can also help you because it allows you to call on soldiers and so on. So here is legislation, we want to protect the health of citizens, but not in a totalitarian way and not in a situation where everything in the world is just as relaxed. You're going the other way around. I don't understand what you're wasting your time here. You don't deal with the price increase to help citizens, and here you are promoting this. But the fact that you're even suggesting that whoever doesn't meet this one of yours on account of it, not only is there a draconian fine, but even that he should be entered in the criminal record, and in that case the perpetrator wouldn't be considered to be faulty for the purposes of other proceedings, so that's really cool. Because for restricting someone's constitution to guaranteed rights, even in the case of businessmen, you limit your claim to damages, so you eliminate those working decent people. Then if a businessman here, like a hairdresser, doesn't put on a drape or wash himself with disinfectant, she's threatened with a fine of up to three million, and in some cases you're gonna put this on her criminal record so that the person can have a record and lose integrity. Well, that's scary. It's awful. So these are the reasons in a nutshell, because I have already discussed this in more detail in my previous performances, why we simply disagree with it and think that in the SPD we believe that there are no conditions for the negotiation of this government pandemic law, it is submitted by the government of Petr Fiala, in a shortened procedure. And once again, I call on you to vote on this, to reject negotiations in a short procedure and to make it possible, because here you have the majority, due consideration in due time and discussion at all three readings, so that the public, professional associations, experts, lawyers, constitutional lawyers can participate in the discussion. You've prevented everyone from taking part in the debate. These are incredibly totalitarian and undemocratic manners you have. The most ridiculous thing is that you are proposing a law that is an unprecedented attack on freedom, democracy and the right of citizens in the Czech Republic. And I think it needs to be repeated so that all citizens of the Czech Republic can remember what the reality of this government is and what it is hiding behind those pleasing but untrue words. So here I have given the reasons why the SPD MP will vote against. And I'm already saying, against the briefing, that the SPD is already preparing a constitutional complaint. The SPD is already preparing a constitutional complaint against your so-called pandemic law, and here I am saying that we are preparing a constitutional complaint to make it clear. Because we will not give up the struggle for the rights and freedoms of the citizens guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u41	Thank you. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I will ask Mr Vít Vomáčka to prepare to come to the speaker's desk, but to give me more room to read the apologies. I would like to apologise to Mr Antonín Tesařík, from 10.30 to 14.00 for working reasons, also to Mr Josef Bělica, between 14.00 and 23.45, until the end of the meeting, because of negotiations in the electoral region. Furthermore, there is an apology for Mr Pavel Svoboda between 12.00 and 23.59 for work reasons. Mr. Petr Sadovský apology, today from 22 am to the end of the negotiations, is an apology 1. 2. from 22 hours until the end of the meeting for family reasons. And the last apology, Jan Farský apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 2. 2. So that was all the apologies. Mr. Ambassador, your point of order, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just in time, I will not delay this. Especially for Mr Okamura, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u43	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Please, there is a factual point. I ask here on my right, the Member speaks, I will extend his time. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u44	So once again, the response to Mr Okamura's speech, through you, Madam President. He was talking about you government MPs having hundreds of thousands of salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, on camera, you have hundreds of thousands of salaries, Mr Okamura and the opposition Members, as well as you. So let's not fool the public, even you opposition MPs have hundreds of thousands of salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u45	Thank you for keeping time. I see he's applying with priority rights at the moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I am far from responding to a honourable Member whose name I do not know at all, so I will take it more generally. Let us remember over and over again that because of the government's five-calice vote, you have increased Members' salaries since 1. 1. 2022 by 6 percent. That's your policy. We have already introduced a draft SPD law in November to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term, so that you talk about salaries, so that it is clear who defends what. You didn't deliberately discuss our bill, you could discuss it in the second half of December, there were deadlines. So because of you, politicians' salaries have deliberately increased. You raised your politicians' salaries, we opposed, by 6 percent from 1. 1. 2022. That's what we're talking about. And then when you came up with a cross after the funeral that the SPD created pressure, the citizens get upset, you only came up with a proposal to freeze salaries for less than a year. Well, you don't want to give up, but we put in our amendment, which was voted on here in January to freeze salaries for four years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u47	Mr President, I will interrupt you, I will interrupt you again. I'm sorry. I know this may be difficult for all of us, but I would really ask you to remain calm in the Chamber. If there's anything you need to do, go to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u48	So because of the government coalition, you, your entire government five-calice, voted against our amendment to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. So, basically, I welcome the fact that the MP here reminded us of the pay debate, and we can do this over and over again, and I have plenty of time. And I will repeat over and over again that because of you, politicians' salaries have increased by 6% and that you voted against the SPD proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. So if you guys want to continue this discussion, we're gonna keep saying it over and over again, let's get as many people to hear it. But I suggest we move on. To deal with the pandemic law, because that's the subject now, I've already explained the subject here, here's our position clear, of course. And let me stress that our proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians is still here in the House. So if you're serious about this for the entire term, then put him in line! We'll be lucky if you hand it over to us and we'll have a vote. Not that it's closed because you've been frozen here for 11 months. No, no, no, it's in the system. So, once again, you're defending it! You're stopping it from freezing salaries for the entire term. You deliberately don't want to assign SPD proposals. Of course, because you like it. And I won't say again that you've added three extra ministers in the government. I've said it x-times before, they even have to sit in two rows here. And so on and so forth. So I can say it again here, but I think we have a point in the pandemic law right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u49	Thank you. That was the last application for a debate. At this point, I will ask: is anyone else applying to the debate for a brief hearing? I see no one, I conclude the debate, and at this point we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. There's a check-out request. I've checked you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. For the last time, I will engage and allow myself to make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of covid-19 diseases and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease (seminal press 127) in a short hearing." We will now vote on this motion for a resolution. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. [[Reactions from the O.R., no vote.]] I'm sorry, it's really time. The negotiations are long. Again, is there a motion to unsubscribe? Okay. So at this point, there's a motion to check out. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. Please don't I have to read the motion for a resolution again? We all know what we're going to vote on. So at this point, I'm taking the vote (number 44). Whoever agrees with this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. If you're against it, raise your hand and press the button. I thank all Members for the vote. 136 Members were registered, 80 for them, 55 against them. The motion was accepted. I'll ask if anyone's checking in at this point. I see that the President of the ANO movement member Alena Schillerová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say what I have to say, I would like to state that the YES movement has in no way been invading this law. I've said it a couple of times. We do not agree with the law, neither with legislative urgency nor with its final version, which will be voted after the debate. However, I think that so far four Members have spoken on our side and that it has been very factual and short. So now I'm gonna say what I have to say. We've spent 23 hours here, there's women, there's older, older men... [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] That's what the Minister said. That's what the Minister said. [[War]] It's not only coming from our MP's club, it's this request, but I overheard it from the government bench, so I'm taking a health break for two hours. I've briefed the representatives of the government. We just need to do personal hygiene. That's all. Change into clean clothes, yes, a toothbrush. So, two hours for a hygiene break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u51	I am declaring a two-hour break at the request of the ANO parliamentary club. I'll meet you here at 12.56. I see the MP is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u52	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm just for the members of the European Affairs Committee that he was supposed to be meeting this morning. When things calm down, of course we'll be meeting, you'll be alerted in time. There's a deadline. We have an important vote. And for Mr. Babiš. The committee did not sit today simply because the Chamber of Deputies was sitting. We were at work, not that we weren't. You were just in the wrong conference room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u53	Thank you for this information on the committees. I'll take the liberty of reading my apologies. Michal Kučera's apology from 14.30 to the end of the day of the hearing, Mr Carbol from 14.00 to the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Horák from 13.00 for work reasons and last, David Štolpa, today due to illness. Once again, a break is announced and we will meet in this hall at 12.56 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-000-000.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. Before I open the point, I'll load up the apologies. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Mr Jiří Mašek apologizes for health reasons, probably by the end of the day. Lenka Dražilová also apologizes for health reasons, Petr Bendl for health reasons, Madam Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 12 to 14.00 for reasons of work, Mr Fridrich from 14.00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Josef Kott from 13.30 for health reasons, Mrs Michaela Opltová between 12-45 and 16.00, until the end of the meeting, for reasons of family reasons, and Mr Petr Fifka from 1256 to the end of the day of the hearing, for reasons of work, Mr Jan Lacina from 12.00 to 24.00 until the end of the day for reasons of work, further apologizes to Mrs Marie Jílková from 13.00 to the end of the day without giving reason, Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes himself between 13.00 and 17.00 for reasons of doctor's visit. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] So just apologies, and now we'd start discussing the approved point, and that's it.
