ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u1	167. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mr Patrik Nacher's interpellation on the incoming censorship on social networks and the restriction of freedom of speech. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 239. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 8 September 2022 until the presence of Prime Minister Petr Fiala and then on 13 October 2022 until further discussion of written submissions. We will therefore continue the debate. Do I ask if anyone is applying to the debate? Anyone reporting for the debate? Yes, Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Logically, I report when it's my written interpellation. Well, he's taken some time, I'll confess. I actually had the first oral interview for the Prime Minister in April, and I wrote it in June. Now, you've read yourself that the written interpellation has been interrupted on 9 September, today is December 1st, so a lot of these things aren't up to date anymore. I intersected the Prime Minister on the issue that he was threatening for me here, threatened - now the question is that it is moving a bit - not only on social networks was censorship threatened, there was some special position at the Office of the Government, the Office of the Government launched the project www.branmecesko.cz. I've just come here on short notice, because there is one that mimics him, Branmece.eu, and my questions have been and are basically timeless. Here I would help with such a quote from Sure, Prime Minister: "Censorship is a relic of totalitarianism, we have democratically decided not to publish anything." And I dare say he may be in danger here. Once these are things that concern the covid, and you know very well that I criticized then, and that was at the Ministry of Health, a representative of the ANO movement, that there are some blacklists that are spreading things here that are not official information, and I criticize it consistently even now. Some non-governmental institutions are involved in the project Defence Czechia, but sometimes they get themselves into trouble, that they do not write the truth all by themselves. I was talking about a lost trial, for example, that lost the server Manipulators.cz, which then had to apologize. [[10.10 hours]] So my questions are quite logical and clear, and I refer to the Prime Minister as a representative of the ODS, who presents freedom of expression, and it is the summit that we all honor here. That means the questions, and I wasn't happy with them, are: Who will determine what is and what isn't true? Does the government really want to address the competence that should only be dealt with by an independent court for me, directing to organisations that they themselves sometimes spread when I say it very gently, euphemistically, black and white worldviews that conceal unpleasant things and highlight the things that are useful to them? Unfortunately, such jokes that are circulating on social media are true that what was a year ago fake news turns out to be true after a year. And here we have examples of some things where contributions were even deleted, even on a private social network on Facebook, which involved, for example, Donald Trump and so on. But then it was also about covid, vaccination, it could also be the current situation around Ukraine. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] And so actually my basic question, and believe me, I would ask, even if it were a government where I would be a coalition MP, is: Isn't the government afraid that the original idea of combating misinformation can change and shift it into a fight against uncomfortable opinions? And it seems to me that this is a very risky thing. I would ask if the Prime Minister would react in any way, because I think that's the danger that there's always a target. Once it's a covid, now it's a war in Ukraine, then it can be an energy crisis and then it can be an attitude, I don't know, to the Lisbon Treaty, a attitude on various issues relating to social or social, social issues, that anyone who has a different opinion, so they already spread some hatred, gets some label. And I think the government should keep this company apart, not in my opinion, the way I see it, not in my opinion. So that's what she was going for -- I moved it a little bit, the interpelation, because in April, when I had it originally, I was talking about shutting down the servers. That's completely passé, so I've moved it to the general plane, if it's to fight disinformation, if it doesn't change as a result of fighting against at this time and at this time uncomfortable opinions. And be careful, I'm not talking about political opinions here, whether you're voting for one or the other, but about opinions on some social issues or some problems that are in society. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u3	Thank you. I ask whether he is reporting - yes, the Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor, and I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u4	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the questions asked by Mr Nacher are undoubtedly serious and we need to address these matters. I believe that all the sufficient answers were contained in my written interview, but this is precisely a matter of opinion and, in this case, completely legitimate and correct, that the Member believes that all the answers he expects are not there. So we're talking about this here, and I think it's definitely appropriate in this case. The MP mentioned a timeline here. Well, maybe we'll have to think about some time in the future about how we're going to have the oral questioning institute adjusted here, because there are some deadlines that are going to push it all further. And really, I apologized once, but once we had an emergency meeting instead of a proper meeting and so on, so we're dealing with it now. And I agree with the Member that some of the things that were in his original interpellation have already been clarified, not even survived, but clarified. Here, I'd like to remind you of the criticism that sounded here to turn off some of the websites. I repeatedly explained - oral, in this case really oral - that the government did not turn off any websites, but the intelligence services made certain recommendations, the private domain operator responded to the recommendations, temporarily shut down those websites. It was said: Only the court can decide that. That's not entirely true, even the private operator can decide. But the court ruled in this case because the lawsuit was filed for this procedure. The Municipal Court decided in Prague on 22 July. The Municipal Court in Prague rejected the action to block disinformation websites, and the judgment states, among other things, that even in the knowledge of guaranteeing the right to receive information as a reflection of freedom of expression, the public subjective right of the individual to receive information from a specific website cannot be induced. So this matter is resolved and there is no further blocking of these sites, even though the court has decided in the manner that I have described or quoted here, and has rejected this lawsuit to block disinformation sites. However, the problem of misinformation and the fight against misinformation is here, and we cannot close our eyes to it. It is certainly not the government's task to introduce censorship, and I would be the first to oppose it, and it has never occurred to the government to do so for a minute, and we do not even want to limit public debate. We wouldn't have thought of that either, and I wouldn't have thought of that for a minute, and I'd be the first to stop it. But what is definitely needed is to face a hostile hybrid war that is being waged on our territory through disinformation. This is how all democratic countries progress, and that is okay. And what is also needed, and what I think is the task of a government that has information at its disposal, is to face the misinformation by presenting to the public information that is true and that corresponds to some reality. We are not doing this by restricting someone from forbidding something, and there are no indications that such a government or any other body of the state is doing anything, nor is there any legislative power that has the greatest competence to do so. There is no such thing in the Czech Republic, there is absolute freedom of speech, total freedom of expression, total opportunity to obtain any information from anywhere, there is also a high degree of freedom of the media. But that doesn't mean that we don't have to fight misinformation in a positive way, and that we shouldn't focus on these things, because otherwise we wouldn't be doing one of the important tasks that the state also has, and that's facing hybrid threats. [[10.20 hours]] Let me mention a few facts that may still be important in this context. If we were to listen to any warnings here about whether there's enough freedom to disseminate any information, I would remind here an index that evaluates press freedom and which is being compiled by international organisations. Probably the most famous of all. the index that reportér do without borders. According to this assessment, the Czech Republic found itself in the 20th place in the world, which is a significant improvement this year against last year, from 40th place to 20th place around the world in terms of freedom of the press. So not only is there no danger of weakening the possibility of expressing your opinion, but on the contrary, this possibility is strengthened. We've established the position of government media agent and misinformation. This one has also been mentioned several times. I don't want to repeat what I've said before in oral questioning. Its activities focus on coordinating government activities, promoting strategic communication, processing comments on media, disinformation and related matters, and working with the institutions of the European Union. Of course, it also organises positive campaigns that alert citizens to misinformation and to disprove facts that do not correspond to reality, such as this website, Defence Czech Republic. In general, I'd like to say that one thing is censorship, and we all have to fight it, and there's no danger, no one's introducing it, and no one's even thinking about it. The second issue is the editorial work of individual media, which is a traditional way of publishing texts and ideas from time to time, to which individual publishers, individual editors and individual private operators have undoubtedly been entitled. We only have to talk about whether the editorial work does not go into any censorship form, but that is another debate, that is not something that the state can simply solve or into which the government should and should intervene at all. But the whole other thing is whether the government, the political representation, the political party, each of us, has the right to criticise, question the opinions of someone else, or whether we simply do not have the chance to defend ourselves. I am convinced that not only do we have such an opportunity without interfering with freedom of speech, freedom of speech, but that we must also do this and that we are all doing this in everyday reality. No doubt you'll agree with me that the fact that two plus two is four is an opinion and another opinion is that two plus two is six, that's also an opinion. But that one opinion corresponds to some knowledge and some objective reality, and the other doesn't. It can't be said that if one says that two plus two is four, and another says that two plus two is six, so probably the truth is that two plus two is five. It sounds logical, and we can find a golden middle ground between those opinions, but we all understand that this is nonsense. That's just not true. We understand that because we have some mathematical education, that we have learned something at school, that we have some knowledge and we are able to say that. Likewise, if a foreign power here offers us false information that it releases into our public space, it is the duty of our country, our state, to bring true information against it and to state how these things are and against the wrong opinion to build an opinion that is more consistent with objective facts and what is actually happening. That's what I think every company has to do and has to do. In the end, therefore, democratic states are also embarking on the fight against misinformation. I am glad that this belief in Czech society and Czech political representation is quite broad. I believe that it continues to be shared by a wider spectrum of political parties, because we really follow up on the work done by the previous government when it adopted a national strategy for the leadership of hybrid threats and an action plan against this strategy. These documents have also produced certain tasks that we are gradually fulfilling and include the processing of legislation to strengthen the Czech Republic's ability to face disinformation and the creation of a system of strategic communication of the state, so here is a certain continuity. I say this without irony, but with pleasure, because I think the state should also protect its citizens and its security in this sense. I am glad that there is a wider consensus on this matter. But to return to the essence of Mr Nacher's question. Indeed, our government has never intervened in freedom of speech, freedom of speech and the right to express opinions. We're not doing this out of conviction, we never even thought about it, and we're not going to do it in the future. But that's different from our joint task of facing misinformation and protecting our society from hybrid threats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Is Mr Nacher interested in joining the debate? [[Yes.]] He does. Excellent. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u6	Thank you for the floor, for the last time. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Basically, I don't even know where to start. I do not question - and I would not associate a view of topics, opinions on various things, with things such as the sum of numbers. That's where I think the example -- don't be mad at me -- is limping. Two plus two is four, that's not an opinion, that's just a clear sum. By the way, I've seen a short video of how political hypercorrectity is today - so I'll send it to the Prime Minister - where there's this beautiful eight-minute video. The student at school will say that two plus two is 22, and the parents will come in and start... In the end, it ends with the teacher getting fired, because that's just the student's opinion, and she's not developing that kind of imagination. So I'm gonna send you the video on purpose because it was just two plus two and it ended up being fired. She's been fired, plus two salaries, while we're at it. She said at the time that she wanted 22 salaries in that logic two plus two is 22. I'll send you the video. It's pretty interesting. I think it's actually a beautiful answer to the current situation for me, that it's really - and that's another subject of mine - that in that political hypercorrectity, it will slowly stop saying that two plus two is four. But I mean something else. Not the sum of the numbers, I agree with you there. I mean opinions, generally opinions. This may be the opinion of people, if the government may be helping people in an energy crisis, yes or no. And when you have a different opinion, it doesn't automatically mean you're spreading some kind of misinformation. That's just an opinion. [[10.30 hours]] And this, for example, has become very widespread lately that anyone who dares to criticize is either spreading disinformation or getting a label. And the label is, of course, negative, and she already implies that he's actually a disinformer. The most common is that the person in question is a pro-Russian fillet if I look at social networks. It means that my question was that the combination of all these things, the creation of an agent, a special website, and even the view of the topics, the view of the topics cannot be simplified to the sum of the two numbers, so that was the point. If there's no risk in the future. And I didn't say that anyone would lock up for a different opinion, but basically, it's like fighting off an uncomfortable opinion. And that maybe some colleagues will understand when they change the role, and they won't be coalition politicians, but opposition politicians, and then they'll be more sensitive. I'm saying fair and square that various blacklists, waitlists bothered me when they were done at the Department of Health during the government, when I was a coalition MP, so I have a clear conscience in this. And here I'll just remind you that it was one of the former ODS MPs who gave what I remember on Facebook some kind of post where there are only two sexes, and they were deleted, which is also more likely to be two plus two, that is, if there are two sexes, more sexes, and so on. In other words, I see the risk. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Since that's a six-month-old answer, even if it wasn't my fault it was stretching out here, at this point, I'm not gonna propose any resolutions or the way it's done with written intercessions, and I'm glad this exchange of views ever took place. That's all I think he can do is help people and viewers to watch it. My goal is to reduce the mutual aggression and bury the trenches in the company of people who have different opinions without getting stickers. If this interpelation is part of what it would lead to, I'm only happy for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u7	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Karla Maříková is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd just have a question. The Prime Minister here mentions misinformation. So can he specify what this misinformation is? Because in the past, we saw it as a covide, when at the beginning of the pandemic it spread through Internet space, that maybe... or the simplest example that covid is made in the laboratory. These people have been called disinformers, but after two years, we see that it is true - because the information that is not needed today, so we cannot call it disinformation, because in some time it may prove to be true. So, Prime Minister, please, through Madam President, can you specify what misinformation is? And so if the person in any way is punished by blocking that it's misinformation, and in two years it turns out that it's true, then how does it come to that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u9	The Prime Minister has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u10	Let's really not mix apples with pears. When we talk about misinformation and the fight against misinformation, this is about Mrs Maříková, through Madam President, no doubt no one in the Czech Republic is being punished for spreading any opinions and you could hardly give me such an example. And what's misinformation? Well, for example, I have recently noticed - and this is just as an example - some photomontage involving one presidential candidate who looked very credible, even some Members of the Chamber of Deputies felt that it was true, and it just turned out that it wasn't true, that it was misinformation, that it was manipulation with reality, that it simply didn't correspond to objective reality, and it was distorted by it. We could find a number of such examples. As for the... of course, every analogy is limping, every analogy is a little inaccurate. Yet, we use them no later than Bible times, simply because they help us to light up the reality and look at it better. So, just as I think it was very illustrative of my example with an opinion relating to mathematics, it is also illustrative, Mr Nacher, through Madam President, that your example with those figures, and you rightly point out the danger of excessive political correctness, that is another thing that we agree on, because our aim must be - and this may be important - so that we simply do not try to deny and deny the truth in society in any way and for any reason. And in this regard, I think that the fight for misinformation is just the fight for truth and the right vision of things as they are. Again, we have to distinguish - and this is important, the gift of distinction, one of the key things, and I think that even the distinction in politics is right, it is completely legitimate - a legitimate and acceptable view for all that the government has not done enough to combat energy. Not for everyone, but for part of the company. I won't agree with that, but I never thought I should fight him in any other way than explaining that the government has done enough. And I think that the example that you have set here does not sit in this sense, because I can read somewhere every day and listen in this Chamber of Deputies that the government has not done enough, and you will read that the government has done enough and that we say that it is okay. And I think this is an important democratic conflict, and here I would be standing with you on the one hand if someone felt that this conflict was to be limited in any way. That's just one thing. But if someone tells us that we're in a situation right now that one state hasn't attacked another, it's not threatening its independence, it's not killing its people, but it's simply carrying out an operation to protect its citizens, so I'm entitled to feel that this is a really weird opinion, and I'm going to try to fight it, and if I find out that this is what the party of the conflict, which is an aggressor, is trying to influence public opinion, I'm going to do everything I can to make public opinion have enough information to just face it. And I think that's a task of the state. The task of the state is to mediate things to the public as they are. So when there's an example of misinformation here, I've given one example, and there's a whole series of such misinformations that are more or less sophisticated. And we have to try, and I think we should try together, not only the government, but also the opposition, to face these misinformations. This topic is not simple, of course it is not simple, and we must act very carefully again, and our government is doing so with every step that could pose a potential danger of restricting someone's rights and weakening the freedom of speech, the freedom of speech that is absolutely essential for Czech society, in my opinion, and for which it is necessary to fight. [[10.40 hours]] So I can assure everyone that our struggle with misinformation is a struggle that we do not lead in the way of bans and restrictions, but it is a struggle that we fight in the form of explanation and a positive way. It never occurred to us to restrict someone in his right to freedom of speech, freedom of expression, the opportunity to present his views, no matter how strange those views may be, but all we are trying to do is fight this form of hybrid war against us. Otherwise, I wanted to thank Mr Nacher, through Madam President, for his approach to this, and for not proposing a resolution in the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u11	Now, with the factual remark put forward by Mrs Maříková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u12	Thank you for the floor, Prime Minister. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for reacting in this way, for having opened up at all. I can't totally agree with you because I'm not saying that these people are being punished criminally, but we can see that they're being blocked differently, we've seen it, even blocking those websites. And it's not proven anywhere that it's misinformation, but when you put the photograph here, it certainly was false. If it was a photomontage, then I can't forgive myself with exaggeration, so is Putin disinformation in a futrala or a billboard of SPOLU where Andrej Babiš is with Putin, and he's never met him? Is this also misinformation? I think that we have made the word "disinformation" a very nasty word, and it is used where it may not even be appropriate, and we should think about when we will actually use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u13	Another point of fact is made by Mr. Žáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u14	Thank you for the word, I'm just very brief on the definition of misinformation. It's long-term, systematic, plan-like reality manipulation. I'm surprised a colleague of the SPD is asking this because I think the SPD has a lot of experience with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u15	Thank you. So now I don't see anyone registered in the debate. If this continues to be the case and no one is reporting, I am ending the debate. Now I ask Mr Nacher once again if his words - yes, it is true - that he will not propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this reply, so I am done discussing this written interpelation. Another is an interpelation to Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. He replied to Mr Kamal Farhan's interpellation on waiting times for scheduled performances. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 319. I am opening the debate on this point and I see that Mr Farhan wants to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u16	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I have asked Minister Válek to comment on the waiting times for planned performances and how they are evaluated by the Ministry of Health. Since the wordings that came to me are general, I wanted to discuss it in detail with him today. Since the Minister is not present and I consider it necessary for us to discuss this here in plenary, I would like to propose that we interrupt this intervention into his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u17	Thank you. We will therefore now vote on the proposed interruption, namely the interruption to the presence of Minister Válek, a block of written interventions. I'm picking up interest in the check-out, so I'm checking you all out. I beg you to re-enlist with your cards. I have called in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, so I will repeat for those who are coming: it is proposed to interrupt this written interpelation, i.e. in the Houses of the Press 319, to the presence of Minister Vlastimil Válek. I will ask my newcomers and colleagues to come forward, too, and we can begin voting on the interruption of this written interpelation. Some have already begun to vote, I suppose, gentlemen of the Members, who are here with the facts, Mr Bauer... [[Voice off the microphone.]] No, I haven't started yet. Initiating now, I call for a vote on the interruption of this interpelation. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 144, registered 101, for 99 against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have interrupted this written intervention in the presence of Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, and I conclude its discussion on this block. I am also opening an interview with the Minister of Health and Deputy Prime Minister Vlastimil Válek, who responded to Mr Kamal Farhan's intervention on the capacity of health professionals and the needs of care providers to ensure affordable and high-quality health care. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 320. I'm opening the debate. I see that Mr Farhan is interested in speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u18	Thanks again for the word. These are the capacities of health professionals and their evaluation. Once again, I was not satisfied with this answer, which I received from the Minister. In his performances we are used to saying that he knows that he controls, but his answers to my question were very general, that is, we need to prepare detailed mapping, we will need restructuring, we will introduce in spring, and I think that he should not use such answers after a year and he should specifically answer questions. So, since he is not here, I would again like to ask you, Madam President, to interrupt this interpelation until he is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-001-167.u19	Thank you. I do not see any more in the debate, which is why I am ending the debate and we can begin the vote. Again, this is an interruption of the interpelation into the presence of Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Once again, I've noticed your interest in signing off, so please, all of you, please log in again with your cards. I call on my colleagues from the lobby and those who are coming now to know what they are going to vote on, so I repeat that this is once again an interruption of this interpelation under the House press 320 to the presence of Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Initiating vote on this interruption. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 145, 108 in attendance, for 107, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I state that we have interrupted the discussion of this interpellation into the presence of Minister Válek. And that is what we have exhausted, and I therefore thank you and I note that for today we have finished discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members. I will load the apologies received: Okamura Tomio within 11 hours for work reasons, Okamura Hayato throughout the day for health reasons and Petrtýl František from 14.30 to 18 hours for work reasons they apologize. And so now, given that we have no further point, we should focus on the rigidity of paragraph 171. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we should now focus on paragraph 171, which is the House press number 342, the amendment to the Act on State Social Support, in a short hearing. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be dealing with paragraph 168, which is oral questioning. In case of non-negotiation of point 171, we will also deal with it after the discussion of paragraph 168, i.e. oral interventions, or at 18 o'clock, or we would continue to discuss points 40, House press 9, amendment of the Social Services Act, first reading, and 91, House press 266, which is the amendment of the Act on State Social Support, first reading. [[10.50 hours]] Now there is room for a speech to change the approved 45th session, and that is what President Marek Benda, who I do not see here, has signed up with priority rights. If he's not here, I can't apply his application. However, I don't see anyone else on the agenda of the meeting logged in. Are you reporting? No. Since no one is applying for the agenda, we will continue with the item in question.
