ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here this morning. In order to record our participation, I will check you out first and ask you to sign up with ID cards or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to come forward again. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations: Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová for health reasons, Věra Adámková for health reasons, Vladimír Balaš for health Olga, Pavel Bělobrádek for health reasons, Ondřej Benešík for health reasons, Stanislav Blaha for health Lukáš, Richard Brabec for health Helena, Jan Bureš for health reasons, Jaroslav Bžoch for reasons of foreign travel, Oldřich Černý for Wenzl of health reasons, Jan Farský for no reason, Milan Feranec for health reasons, Igor Hendrych for health reasons, Pavel Klíma for reasons of health reasons, Štolpa Richterová for reasons of health, Michal Kučera for 11 hours for reasons of work, Petr Letocha for health reasons, Petr Liška for work reasons, Ivana Mádlová for health reasons, Karla Maříková for health reasons, Vojtěch Munzar for personal reasons, Nina Nováková, Weina Nová, for reasons of health reasons, Nova for reasons, V zdraštová. The following members of the government apologize: Mikuláš Bek for work reasons, Jozef Síkela for foreign travel and Michal Šalomoun for work reasons. We should start today's meeting by discussing the fixed points. These are points 79, 80, 37, 42, 43, 49, 44 and 50, these are House prints 61 - second and third readings, 43, 55, 56, 72, 57 and 73 - all first readings. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss the items under the approved agenda. Before I give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, I ask, do you have a proposal to amend, supplement or amend the agenda of today's meeting day? Since I do not see any proposal to amend the programme, before we continue with the approved programme, I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to the results of yesterday's secret election. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] And my colleagues, my colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down so that you can hear what the President will say. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
