ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on salary and remuneration for work readiness in budgetary and in some other organisations and bodies, as amended, as amended /German press 117/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing it, we should have according to § 99 para. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law are in the accelerated procedure. I am opening the debate and I see the enlisted - Mr Vondráček. Otherwise, colleagues, if you want to discuss some issues, I ask you to go to the lobby so that other colleagues can concentrate on discussing the matter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I start in the debate, in the vote number 21 - I voted in favour, I have "stayed" at the high school. I'm not questioning the vote. And now for the briefing itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you, if possible, briefly and constructively, of the dilemma of presenting this standard in a short procedure, using a state of legislative emergency. The dilemma is briefly due to the fact that the law is prepared badly and presented badly. Excuse me, first of all, I would like to help myself with an e-mail quote that came to me today: "The government has submitted a law on the freezing of the salaries of representatives of the state in a state of legislative emergency. It's a government scam on the constitution and the rules of the legislative process. Members of the government don't give a damn about the promise to uphold the constitution and the laws. It is a signal that, as the government begins, it will continue, so we can expect continuous tunneling of constitutions and laws in our country by government." End of quote. In other words, although the government wants to adopt a law in a state of legislative emergency, it is quite clear that the legal conditions for such a procedure are not fulfilled. The legal condition is an exceptional circumstance causing a major threat to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or to the security of the state or to the threat of significant economic damage. This bill, from my point of view, does not satisfy any of this. Is the fundamental right or freedom of citizens threatened in any way? Is the security of this state at risk? Or perhaps - given the expected and in the explanatory report mentioned impact on the state budget of CZK 0.6 billion, this amount does not correspond to the concept of economic damage within what the government wants to spend. Neither of the possible legal conditions for the accelerated procedure is here. This is not an exceptional and unexpected circumstance either. I mean, an increase in salaries from 1. 1. is fully expected and expected. And why do you think that is? Because the law that we adopted in the last parliamentary term, which was adopted here by a significant majority above the constitutional majority, was liquidated by the coalition senators and we could no longer vote in the past period and overrule their will. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, sometimes the interpretation of the law is complicated. Sometimes it's good to turn to experts who provide legal interpretation, but that's not really the case. Here the Constitutional Court has already decided on this issue, we have constitutional findings, such as constitutional finding No. 55/10, which clearly defines what is a condition for adopting a standard in a state of legislative emergency. The Constitutional Court has dealt with this and there is no dispute about it. I have read the explanatory report, and I believe that they are, I believe that even the petitioners are aware of it, because they are kind of quietly going around in the explanatory report. And, among other things, they quote another constitutional finding, and they say that "the possibility of using the Institute of Legislative Emergency in a similar case is provided for by a broader consensus of the legislature." It's Found No. 12/10. The existing agreement of all members of the clubs on the need for restrictive action against the salaries of constitutional officials, which, as the petitioner suggests, will be a source of consensus within the meaning of the Constitutional Court decision cited. I would like to ask you, Minister, or the Prime Minister, who you were dealing with. When and how did the negotiations take place? Who, for the largest club in this House, for the 2011 ANO Club, has agreed to submit this standard in a state of legislative emergency? Who specifically agreed to such a procedure? That's the consensus that you're talking to the other side. With whom did you consult the standard that affects 4,800 people, of which over 90 percent are prosecutors, judges and lawyers of the Office of State representation in property matters? Members and senators are only 281. Of those 0.6 billion, the judge, the savings, the judges, 403.7 million, the prosecutors, 138.3 million, and the other 56,7 million. That's the explanatory statement. Do you really think the judges won't give it to you at the Constitutional Court when it's mostly out of their pocket? If it's a de facto pay cut, which is now rising at an increased rate? So we haven't adopted the law yet, and we already know that it's not constitutionally conformal and that the Judging Union is most likely to attack it at the Constitutional Court. And that's what we're supposed to approve, and that's what you're presenting here, and you're saying that there's some consensus on that, and that we agree with that. Well, I'm telling you, we don't agree. But what is... look, at the beginning of all this there was an effort for some nice, symbolic gesture of us legislators to express solidarity with the citizens of this republic in difficult times, because it has no other meaning, really in terms of budget savings 56 million is not significant. It was a well-meaning gesture, just about us politicians. But now the contents have definitely disappeared from that standard. And you know why? Because you've thrown the whole symbolic value into the trash with your actions so far. The sum of 56,7 million has not even been received into the state budget and is already spent. And you know how? I'll give you one example. Mr. Okamura already talked about it. Look at those full benches behind me. The salary of the political deputy is 120,000 a month. That's basically, I don't count the valuations and other rewards. I also don't count the cost of a car, driver, secretariat, one assistant, the other assistant. Just a clean foundation for the deputy, that's 1,440,000 gross in a year. There are two political representatives in one ministry, that's 2,880,000. At one ministry, it's CZK 11,520,000 for the term of office. And we have 18 ministries or ministers. That means we can get to the sum of 207,360,000, and that doesn't count the other benefits, that doesn't count the personal value. This is the basic salary of political representatives, mostly unsuccessful candidates for these elections. So you really think these judges are gonna take out of their $400 million and give you a donation here to pay for a picnic party of political deputies in this election season? You know what's important and what's the other difference that seems to lead me to the fact that I really don't know how to vote? Because we, like ANO, support the standard. We were the ones who presented it. We could have adopted the law here before Christmas, but not backwards, not retrospectively. The fundamental difference is that we have adopted the standard that the senators have swept off the table in the past period, and there the government has proposed freezing. But now you're proposing a de facto reduction, because from 1 January 2022, the original amount of the salary to which the legal claim for the period worked out is already at hand. And this situation is clearly unconstitutional, especially in a situation where only a small group of people are paid by the state. If all civil servants' salaries were reduced, this might be justified, but this is not the case. Finally, I will borrow the e-mail I received today, and I will read it to you, and I will conclude: "The government, unlike previous similar adjustments, does not propose wage freezes, but cuts, which is a completely different constitutional situation. It is clear that a reduction in the salary of someone who, as of 1 January, has already incurred a legal claim for the period worked in question, is unconstitutional with regard to a small group of people paid by the State. If the government claims in the explanatory memorandum that the law is in accordance with constitutional order, it lies. However, we will have to get used to lying to the government in the Chamber of Deputies. The bill is not only unconstitutional, but also politically hypocritical. These were the current government parties that blocked the adoption of the law that dealt with the matter in the Senate last year. However, he addressed it in a proper legislative process and at a time when it was not necessary for the law to reduce the new amount of salary." End of quote. So the idea at heart is good, but answer me the real question of why you added those judges, prosecutors and attorneys to the UZSVM, because that's how the standard got back on the edge of constitutional order. And I have to conclude here that I really don't know how to vote, and I'm most likely going to abstain from the short-term procedure. If the government coalition wishes to vote for the accelerated legislative process, we will meet here, I suppose, with some distance of time and we will say whether it was or was not in accordance with the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court will give us the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm now registering two priority rights. The first is President Marek Výborný and after him the President Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u4	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like this item to be negotiated today so that tomorrow we can really focus on the key one for which we are here, and this is a request for trust from Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government. So let me make sure that we have 17.28 hours, but I would rather propose under § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, of the sitting and vote after 19.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. I'm zagongovat go and invite everyone to the O.R. Before the Members return, I will read an apology. Today, the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 11. 1. 2022 Mr Richard Brabec apologizes until the end of the day due to illness. [[17.30 hours]] I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. [[He's waiting a while.]] I'll wait for our numbers to settle. I will therefore repeat the proposal made by President Marek Výborný, on behalf of five members of Parliament, on how we should act today and vote in terms of territorial and procedural terms after 19 and 21 o'clock. We all know what we're voting on. It is a procedural proposal, so I will put it to a vote without debate. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 30; 171 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 108, against 1. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Minister Marian Jurečka is next with priority rights. Please... you're withdrawing your application, thank you. And Mr Jan Hrnčíř is another member of this debate. I don't see him anywhere. [[MP Potter doesn't want to get off.]] It's not logged in. And Madam Secretary, no, Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I haven't been Minister for a long time, but thank you in any case for giving me the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] I don't know if there's enough peace here or if you can't hear me with that mask, but I can barely hear myself. Thank you for your peace. I wanted to follow up on the appearance of my colleague, the chair of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and the former President of the Chamber of Deputies, who has the historical memory and basically warned us by his speech. He reminded us that it has not paid off in the past - and this concerns, for example, the Members for my political party, the YES movement, I will give one example. You know how restitution ended at the Constitutional Court. And here it's basically certain that this law is for reasons that I'm not going to repeat here and that are not just finding No. 55/10 The Constitutional Court is clear, so for the reasons that have already been interpreted here, and I just point out that the diction of Article 99 of the Rules of Procedure Act really is not appropriate to that standard, and I dare say that, in fact, as your Human Rights Commissioner, the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are not threatened by the fact that these selected professional groups - which is, moreover, not yet mentioned here, discriminatory - will be reduced to their rights for the benefit of a larger whole, and it is justified by the threat of either damage to the state or the security of the state. So, in this respect, I am sure that those reasons should lead us to special caution and we should not manifest our vote in favour of discussing this standard in a state of legislative emergency, and also with a certain dose of retroactivity, which has also been mentioned here, because on 1 January all those salaries to be reduced have been raised, so it is not really freezing, so we should be very careful and vigilant. I voted in favour of the standard, the legal bill submitted by the former government, was not approved. Back then, the will wasn't political. Of course, the new government legitimately has the opportunity to reopen this issue, but the process by which it opened it calls into question the validity of our vote from the very beginning. And after all, I've defined my role here by always acting on the side of the law, or I'd rather not perform at all. And here in this respect, I'm afraid there's no other way I can perform. I am also, of course, in a dilemma, certainly as a political gesture it would be nice to show the citizens of the Czech Republic that politicians, prosecutors with their high salaries, reduced, show solidarity with how their fellow citizens are affected financially. The problem is, however, that it is not a constitutionally comfortable procedure and that it will be reviewed with a high probability of playing with certainty by the Constitutional Court with the result that it was unconstitutional. Then there is the group of judges, I deliberately remove the prosecutor, because in my mind I suspect the fourth, among executive powers, even though they are not marked that way, but in Article 80 of the Constitution the prosecutors are mentioned, so let's say that there is still some will or possibility of the Constitutional Court taking this into account and not declaring it in relation to the content of the standard, that is to say, to intervene in their salaries, this part as unconstitutional. But I cannot imagine that the Constitutional Court would go against its settled caselaw in the sense that it would allow the House to reduce its salary to judges, even in this discriminatory retroactive form. So I warn you, I'd like to raise my hand for that standard. I decided I wouldn't pick her up because as a lawyer, I'm really up against my conviction to vote for something that ends up in the Constitutional Court in the way that I suggested. At the same time, I also encourage lawyers, regardless of the area and the political spectrum they come from, to think before the vote. This is not such a key standard, but it is more about whether we will vote on these issues, which are already problematic with the optics of constitutional law in the future and can be even more significant, so whether we will vote on our professional convictions or simply forget that we are lawyers and raise our hand for a standard that we will know in advance that will be abolished. Let each one judge for himself according to his knowledge and conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I am simply saying, for the record, that we are in a phase of discussion where we are dealing with whether there are conditions for discussing the proposal in a short hearing. The debate or general debate will be open only after I open the first reading. This means that President Schillerová is applying precisely to this issue. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very brief. My colleague, the Member and Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee Vondráček has said very serious facts here. He was also supported by Professor Válková, and I would very much like to ask the Minister for the Legislative Council of the Government of Šalomoun if he could step on the microphone here and explain to us his position on what he feels about these facts, because as a person... I have been on the Government's Legislative Council for seven years on the Financial Law Commission, and I have great respect for the Government's Legislative Council. The minister, who is certainly a lawyer, certainly concerned about the question, certainly gave his opinion to the government, who voted on it, certainly voted on it somehow. Well, I would ask him very much if he could comment on this here in front of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can make such a comprehensive view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. No one else is gonna... The honourable Member is reporting, and we are really only discussing whether the conditions for the negotiation of the amendment law are in the shortened negotiations. If this is on the subject, please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u10	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is really about whether this is a legislative emergency. I would remind colleagues who were in the constitutionally-legal committee during the last parliamentary term that this committee was, in its own way, apolitical on fundamental issues. For example, we members of the club of the ANO movement disagreed with our Ministry of Justice when it wanted to discuss execution in a legislative state of emergency. We knew this was illegal, and we didn't want to support it. It was not supported and the law was properly discussed. I believe that it is appropriate to respect the law, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and not to discuss this law in a legislative state of emergency. For me, I support this law, albeit in my own way unconstitutional, in principle. Our salary cut - I don't know if it's appropriate to lower the judges, but I support the reduction in our salaries. But please, who has a minimum basis for legal education cannot say that this law has the characteristics for which it should be discussed in a legislative state of emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u11	Thank you. President Okamura with priority rights. I am merely pointing out, as I have already announced, that we are discussing whether this bill should be discussed in a shortened hearing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to call on the new minister, Mr Šalomoun, to speak. Or doesn't he know or is he incompetent? Here he sits, we call on him repeatedly to express whether it may be in a legislative emergency or not. And Minister, are you sitting down? I don't know if you're listening or not listening. Go to the microphone now, right here, right now, and tell us what's going on. Or come tell us you don't know. Or that you're not sure you need advice. So if you're either going now, or I'll give you some space to take three minutes off to get some advice. Because Mr. Michálek has already been to you to advise you, we've seen that. Well, here's a serious matter. For us, I say we're in favour of freezing politicians' wages. There's our proposal for four years, by 2025, so that we're not being blamed for having Okamura dragged in for the SPD. On the contrary, you only want it for a few months, that's what I said. But now we're talking purely about this thing. So, Minister, I've never heard your name, I haven't seen you, I've seen you for the first time, but I'm sure it would be nice if you spoke. So you dare to tell us right now? [[Yes.]] Yes, the Minister has no problem. So you see how my challenge works. So I'd give the Minister some room to tell us. Otherwise, I'd take that break for a few minutes to give the government a chance to consult, because there are more of you than you've ever been, but you can see that we'd like to give you that space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u13	Thank you and I ask if at this stage of the discussion anyone else would like to speak in the debate? Are you reporting, Minister? Please, you have the right to step forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u14	Members of Parliament, as President of the Legislative Council of the Government, I gave an opinion on this and it is on the ground. The position is quite extensive, so you can look at it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u15	So, I have a number of applications for discussion here. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, good afternoon or early evening, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I was very interested in watching the Sunday TV Partie on Prima, where my honored colleague, Mr Jakub Michálek, appeared, which of course I appreciate very much, and he said there one great thing, or a good thing, in response to the fact that the host asked him how it was with our government declaring and prophesying that he wanted to save, we have to save, but 47 new officials came to the Office of the Government, three new ministries were established. Jakub Michálek said a very good sentence there, which I can easily sign. He said that if people get to add high added value and save a lot of money in the final phase of our state, let there be not fifty, but a hundred or two hundred. And I fully agree with him. But I am asking the honourable government, the Prime Minister, if he were here, or one of the Vice-Presidents of the Government, such as Vice-President Marian Jurečka as the petitioner, through Mr President, what is it like, then, when you set up three new ministries, besides that, and in addition, in particular, the Minister for Legislation, who was justified, or the establishment of the Ministry, was justified in order not to submit legislative scumbags. I think that every law school student, after a couple of semesters, must know that a legislative bastard is such a jerk, where the retroactivity of law is not respected and, of course, the caselaw of the general courts and constitutional courts is not respected any more. When I read the explanatory memorandum of the law, point C states that in assessing the compliance of proposed legislation with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it is written: "The proposed changes are in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The platový restriction also affects representatives of all the pillars of state power. At the same time, it is strictly limited in time, in a situation where austerity measures are implemented in relation to other groups of people rewarded from public budgets.' I therefore ask: You have a specially established Minister for Legislation to filter legislative scumbags, as you have often used us, especially when it comes to emergency and covid-related regulations, which have been in a far more serious situation and in a completely different state of affairs, such as when an amendment to the Act on the salary of constitutional officials and judges is being dealt with, when all of us here, what we are lawyers - and there are quite a lot of us in this parliamentary term, whether in opposition or coalition - so every lawyer who is represented in each member's club must know that this legal standard is not about freezing salaries, but about reducing salaries, because we all need to know very well that we are all going to lose 6 percent of our salary in February. This means that if we approve this legal standard at any time - we will approve it in January, we will approve it in February, we will approve it in March - we will all reduce our salaries by 6%, not any freezing. So let's stop lying to the public about the fact that wages are frozen, because by being in January, everyone's wages are down. I, as a Member, agree, of course, that we 281 legislators, plus ministers, reduce our salaries or return them to 2021. Times are bad, we have to bear the same social responsibility as other groups. But as a basis for every law school, they learn that the basic legal principle is iura novit curia, which means the court knows the law. And how do you want and how can you ask judges to live in a 21st-century legal state, we respected legal standards, and you want the judges to know for themselves that we're gonna create a legislative asshole here, even though we have a new minister for legislation to filter, we're not supposed to give them here, and they're not gonna fight back? I completely understand them, and I believe that the vast majority of those judges, if a reasonable proposal had been tabled in 2020, that they would freeze for 2021, they would have been as socially responsible as everyone else, and they would have understood that the times are bad, we simply have to adapt and we all have to show that we are able to do something in quotation marks, but you can't want all government officials here to declare that we are freezing wages when each of us - and we don't even have to be lawyers - but we all know that this is no longer a wage freeze, but it's a wage reduction. [[17.50 hours]] But you can't want all government officials here to declare that wages are frozen when each of us - and we don't have to be all lawyers - but we all know that this isn't about freezing wages anymore, but it's about reducing salaries. You have several decisions of the Constitutional Court that you simply cannot reduce those salaries to judges, if there is no state of war or there is no republic in bankruptcy, and you are consciously doing so. And I just don't like it, and it's gonna be bullshit, because no added value by having three new ministers, dozens of new officials, is, because if we have a minister for legislation and maybe, but he's not gonna be able to tell us here if he comes and says: I told all my colleagues that it's nonsense what you're presenting, but unfortunately I was outvoted, but that didn't happen. So the added value of the new Minister for Legislation is zero at the moment, and given that the judges will judge it sooner or later, they will, of course, judge the costs of the proceedings, judge the interest lost, respectively. interest on late payments. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] So the added value of this legislative proposal and the new Minister for Legislation as regards this legislation will be minus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u17	Thank you. For the sake of order, I repeat that we are discussing whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. [[Screams in the hall.]] I beg you, don't shout at me. It is important that I repeat the stage at which we are dealing with the law and that this should be the subject of possible discussions. I note here the priority right with which Minister Marian Jurečka has signed up, then I register here two proper applications by Mrs Ožanová and Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u18	Thank you very much. I will allow myself to respond to the debate that is now here. For one thing, I am a youth, but a memorial, a ninth year in the Chamber of Deputies, and I have to say that I am always in those debates and those of Members who are or are not constitutional, so I stayed rather short because that is not what we are here for, that is why the Constitutional Court is here. Let the Constitutional Court judge these matters. I, with all due respect for my former colleague in the government of Mrs. profesor. Válková, remember when there was a debate here, when some of my colleagues argued from the opposition at the time. For example. that it is unconstitutional to re-tax church restitution. And that's when the professor performed and said it was definitely not unconstitutional. And then she was probably wrong, because then the Constitutional Court decided otherwise. And I really don't want to lead that argument about what's or isn't unconstitutional. I set this as an example in order to leave these matters in the gesture and decision-making of the Constitutional Court. That's what the Constitutional Court is for. The reason why we are presenting this in a state of legislative emergency is an argument of possible economic damage and damage, which is in a situation where the extreme burden on the state budget is truly unprecedented. This situation has never been like this in the past, we have never had such an increase in state debt, state spending in the Czech Republic, and that is why we are presenting it in a state of legislative emergency. I will, and this has been said in public space, that we have decided this politically on 29 December. The government's political decision was made on 29 December. But because if we did this in the course of January in the legislative process back to January 1st, it would be unacceptable retroactivity. [[unintelligible]] We did not want to go into this, and we said, we will take this step in the legislative process during January, so that it is clear, readable, which will then relate to the payments and the remuneration from 1 February. We have clearly said, it is not against one group, a narrow group of judges or prosecutors, it is not just a political step against a group of constitutional officials, judges and prosecutors, but this freeze applies to hundreds of thousands of people, which we have also done against other public sector workers or civil servants. So this is also a certain answer to the previous findings of the Constitutional Court in terms of whether this is admissible or not, whether it is possible to include judges and prosecutors in addition to us constitutional officials. But I am returning to the fact that the political decision was made before 1 January, before the increase occurred, but since we would not be able to process this legislatively during January, and retroactivity would really be something I would not argue with you here, that is why we have been doing this since 1 February. It is for a period of eleven months, there can be no objection to any impaired objectivity of the performance of these professions due to their property and income damage. We can still have the debate, but I think that the dispute, if it is contested, must and only has the possibility to decide the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] I note one point of fact from Mrs Válková and then follow the priority rights and proper registration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I don't think I'm going to use that two-minute option in fact. I just want to draw the Minister's attention, who spoke so convincingly here, to two things. Firstly, I was one of the few who did not vote for it in the YES movement at the time, for taxation, and vice versa, when you find my records, I never got off anywhere because I just knew it would end up in the Constitutional Court and how it would decide. This is also proof that our party is democratic, I could afford it, because I convinced my colleagues that it was my position as a lawyer, and this is how I voted. First of all. And secondly, you well know that political decisions timed for a certain period of time play no role in the retroactivity of legislation at all. The legislative act itself is important, that is to say, a submission for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, too, Madame. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Okamura and after him, President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u22	Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka are not telling the truth. Why do you say you made a political decision to freeze politicians' salaries on December 29th? That's why you didn't make it - you're not telling the truth here - that's why you haven't made it since January 1. After all, you've made a political decision before and others. Here, after the election, was the SPD's proposal to freeze politicians' salaries from January 1st, it was here, it was in the system. We could have discussed this in December so that it would apply from 1 January and you made a political decision to reject and not support the SPD proposal, and that would have been from 1 January. That's the first political decision you've made. Therefore, due to your government, politicians' salaries have increased by 6 per cent from 1. 1. based on your political decision. And then you got under pressure, and the second political decision is that 29. 12. you decided with the cross after the funeral that you would actually freeze salaries for less than a year. So because of you, because of your political decision, where you've already had a majority here, politicians' salaries have increased by 6 percent since 1. 1, so that's the first political decision, not what you're saying. What you said was a second political decision. So don't make this up. You don't have to make a fool out of me. I remember exactly, right here I remember the sequence of your decisions. Tell that to somebody who's out of control over there. But with you - you did it, you're the cause of the rise in politicians' salaries here, and now you're saying, for example, from February 1st, that means that you've caused more costs from the public budget, that's beyond that. But I won't forget, since you've already been making this up, that you've put in an extra space for Vice-President of the House, you've created this extra space for the pirát with four MPs. In addition, the cargo for that one Vice-President's job is about 20 miles from the current state. CZK for the term of office. Because there are so many of you in five-calice, and there have been few places, so you had to create seats and even there are so many ministers that Minister Šalomoun, who is the Minister of Legislation, must even sit up in the second row. So you're sitting in two rows to fit in at all. This means three extra ministerial posts, instead of fifteen eighteen. You've created over 70 new jobs because of these three new political factories, and the total cost only for those 70 jobs is 43 miles. extra crowns. [[18.00 hours]] So you suck as much as you can, you grunting with a full sip, and now you're showing a comedy that you've decided politically that there's gonna be some kind of freezing. [[Let's hear it for SPD MPs.]] I mean, you guys decided it was increasing, you know, the salaries! So stop inventing and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u24	I'll stick to the subject strictly. Vice-President, thank you for the floor. At least one more sentence for President Okamura. You've made another political decision. Before the elections, you've all voted in favour of freezing politicians' salaries. And when the host asked you about it in Václav Moravec's questions on Sunday, why didn't you support it in the Senate, you said: Because it was a populist election gesture of the ANO movement. But for whom all of you sitting here in the last term raised your hand so that the Senate would throw it under the table. And now for the next question. You know, we're not fucking around here, we're probably gonna support it, not probably, we're gonna support it, 'cause we've been wanting it all along, freezing it. Only you, when you got here, as the Prime Minister said, under the pressure, you came up with it after hours. I asked very politely in the voice of a fairy-tale wolf whether the Minister for the Legislative Council of the Government would be so kind and would tell us openly. We read his opinion in the media, we read his statement, or I certainly read it, so whether he could say it here to see how it works, if he supported it there, if he told his colleagues that the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government was any. That's all we wanted. And I'm sorry if anyone would dare, with all due respect, from the former ministers here to tell us to look at the papers, I can't imagine what would have happened in this Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I've finally learned how a fairy-tale wolf speaks. [[Glee in the hall.]] I will ask Mrs Ožanová for her speech and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, of course, I am happy to return to the matter, because, please, can someone with legal education really say and agree that this law is in a legislative state of emergency? Is there really a lawyer from the coalition and from the opposition who's gonna raise his hand for this? It would be very surprising for me. Please, let's try to think about it. We can speed this up, we can discuss this properly within time limits, we can shorten our deadlines, and we can extend the law to, like, a year and a half, two years, so that it really has the economic impact that the coalition wants. But let's try to obey the laws of this country, please. That's what you've always advocated, and you said the YES movement doesn't do that. Let us try to comply with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and not approve of a legislative emergency. I believe that, in reducing the time limits, we are able to adopt this law very quickly and, if necessary, to extend the period of the reduction - not the freezing - for a longer period of time. Please, let us try to be responsible and comply with the laws of this country. We're lawmakers, maybe we should follow the law ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u28	I'm intrigued by two moments here. One was already mentioned by my colleague Tomáš Kohoutek, that is the reaction of my colleague Michalík. [[right Michálka]] That was his answer to my question that this government has instead of fifteen eighteen members, so it won't fit in line. It just came out to Minister Šalomoun that he's in the second row. I'm sorry, colleague, but he was just defending it with the added value. And my colleague here described it nicely that the added value isn't there, since the second or third standard here is such a mess. The second moment I noticed is that four hours ago, Prime Minister Vít Rakušan here introduced all the members of the government and said that he honored the Chamber of Deputies, which has the control activity, and that he would therefore communicate with us with all respect and the like. Four hours will pass, and the first decent question of Minister Šalomoun will be answered, so that we can find it in writing. That's the respect after four hours? Not in four months, in six months, in two years, it's always forgotten, and then it starts here, I've had some experience with it. But after four hours, will you leave us, Minister, to find it? Then why do we have first, second and third reading here? So I hope that tomorrow, the Prime Minister won't tell us to read the programming statement, because it's in writing, it has fifty-three pages, let's all read it, and don't have to perform at all. We don't have to perform here at all and read the reason messages. I don't think that's how the respect between the government and the Chamber of Deputies is formed. Thank you and again I call on you to say your position on the microphone both on the principle of legislative emergency and whether it is or is not unconstitutional, what has been said in the media somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u29	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Marek the Výborný is reporting with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with respect to this, of course, we can have a lengthy debate here, I feel that we may have moved a little bit towards the point that we will have on the agenda here tomorrow. I understand that. I don't want to deny the right of the opposition to comment on this. It is clear that, on the issue of a state of legislative emergency, we will not agree here that there are different views. It is also true what has been said here - it will simply be decided by the Constitutional Court if necessary. Let us move forward, please, to decide whether or not the majority is in favour of discussing this law in this regime, and, if necessary, let us discuss the bill itself and somehow stand up to it, whether or not it is approved, but let us say here that there will certainly be enough room for political debate in the order of many hours tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u31	Thank you. Mr Bělica and Mr Okamura, with priority right, are to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u32	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long. I'd just like to ask the Minister if he could get up and say his position so his colleagues from the coalition bench don't have to say it, and he could clearly tell us what he thinks about it, whether it's unconstitutional or not, what his opinion is. We can read, Minister, but what you're doing here doesn't really testify about what Mr. Nacher said, so I'm gonna ask you to give us your opinion on this, and we're serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u33	Thank you, too. The President of Okamura shall apply with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u34	I have heard here Mr. Excellent of the Government's KDU-ČSL and he thinks that various opinions are falling here, whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional. What different opinions? We haven't heard from you, your minister. He told us to read it. That means we called on the Minister of Legislation, and he didn't say the position, so either he doesn't know or I don't know what... [[Glee in the hall.]] And in any case, if he is a lawyer, Mr. Šalomoun - although I am not a lawyer, he should probably know that the House is not responsible to the government, the government is accountable to the House. So don't let me be here and anyone in the SPD that I need to read something. I'm not your associate or anyone else, and just give a simple statement. Behave normally. We've asked your opinion here, and you're arrogant. Why are there adults here - we are 20, well, other opposition parties are 72, we have been voted together by millions of people, and why are you here tasking us, who are not elected by anyone at all? You don't even have a mandate from any voter. [[A round of applause, especially from YES.]] [[18.10 hours]] So I'd like to ask you, I know it's your first day here, but maybe we could all have some proper relationships, right? So when we ask you as governments - and I remember exactly those words, which I believe Zbyněk Stanjura said and reproached - we were also opposition in the last parliamentary term, we blamed the government and we blamed the opposition - the House does not answer to the government, but the government is accountable to the House. That's exactly what I remember here, he was falling over and over again. And it's the right turn. That's a turnaround we're sure to agree with. But now it would be good if you did, too. That's all, because the situation can turn around and we'll want to know each other's information in the House again and have a decent correct answer. That's the point. So I'd really like to ask the Minister - and now I'm adding this to some inexperience - so he's not arrogant, he didn't involve us here, that we're supposed to read something somewhere, because then it looks like he doesn't know. Then it looks like he's not competent. And you don't want to look like that, Minister. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's why I wanted to ask you to come here and simply say it in one or two sentences. And we've got it from the beginning, we can shake hands, maybe we'll be seeing each other here for four years, maybe not, she's a different life. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] But that's what I wanted to ask you to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u35	I see an application for the Minister's discussion. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not take this as disrespect for you, I apologize if it came out that way. The way I felt about it, my opinion is basically familiar and it went on in the media. This position was such that it drew the government's attention to the problematic moments that you are essentially describing here, but although it was discussed with the government, the government is a collective body and it was decided that despite the problems, despite the risk that it could be a Constitutional Court, if the proposal to repeal the law had come, the government nevertheless decided that it had sent it to the Chamber of Deputies as a bill or an amendment. So that's the situation. And what I would say about what President Vondráček said. Yes, the fact that it can trigger justice activity, and the fact that there is some sort of judicial tradition, that it could possibly happen that this proposal would be successful, it can happen, but even so, the government evaluated it by doing it the way it did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u37	Thank you, Minister. I note the factual remark made by Mr Faltýnek, then with the priority right of the Minister, President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to appreciate - although it took a long time, Minister - but I would like to appreciate your fair answer and thank you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Now, therefore, with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u40	I basically wanted to say the same thing as my honored colleague Mr. Faltýnek. I wanted to thank the Minister for coming to the microphone and for telling us that he was a hero in the government - he was a hero - he had this opinion. And that the government overruled him, that's just a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. With priority rights, President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u42	Well, since everyone's already thanked you, I'd like to thank you for the SPD, too, because that's what it is. That's just the way it is. You've come up with a very, I must say, bold statement, and we're politically aware of it. Thank you and we look forward to working with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u43	Mr Patrik Nacher's point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u44	Thank you. So I'm taking advantage of the fact that I see Jakub Michálek here, who I was on TV with. I would also like to begin by thanking the Minister for his sincere view, and at the same time I would like to thank my colleague Jakub Michálek, who convinced me there about the added value of the new position as Minister for Legislation, to ask where the added value of the new minister is when you don't listen to him, what he says to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u45	Thank you, and since no one else is in the debate, in that case, I will conclude the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I will arrange for the Members to come to the vote. I will therefore now make a motion for a resolution and then register a request for your re-registration. First of all, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors, and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on the salary and remuneration of a work emergency in budgetary and in certain other organisations and bodies, as amended, as amended, House press 117 - shortened negotiations." I'm registering your checkout. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. I'll wait for the numbers to settle. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 31, with 173 Members registered, for proposal 110, against 6. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. And so I am opening this point, which is the Government's bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors, and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on the salary and remuneration of a work emergency in budgetary and in some other organizations and bodies, as amended, as amended, House press 117 - shortened negotiations. The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. And I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, who need to discuss something, to go to the lobby and discuss it so that Minister Marian Jurečka can speak in peace and give this point. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u46	Thank you. Mr President, I will be very brief indeed. I think that in the previous debate on the state of legislative emergency some aspects of the draft law no. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials and certain state bodies and judges and Members. I will say so much about this that the government has decided, taking into account the economic and budgetary situation in the Czech Republic and in view of the state budget, its development in the last two years, in particular, on the extreme pace of state debt, that we are really looking across all the budget chapters for savings on state budget expenditure. We are really looking for spending savings in units of millions of crowns, so any amount where, given the current situation, we can reduce the expenditure of the state budget is important. [[18.20 hours]] I am also responding to what has been said here in the previous debate that perhaps some amount of CZK 50 million per month, which is an average saving in terms of state budget spending, that it is some small and similar - no, that is not so. [[Some Members speak loudly in groups.]] We are taking this very seriously, the pace of debt must be stopped. That is why, at the end of 2021, we took a step that was not popular and meant saving in the order of the billions of crowns again on public sector salaries for a large part of public sector employees. And in order to take that step, which means not only saving funds, but also a step that means some belonging and solidarity, we have decided and we have decided to go back to the salary base for 2022, which has increased by 6 percent for the month of January with us, with constitutional officials, but also with judges and prosecutors, so that we can return to the salary base at level 2021. This step over the next 11 months, because it's going to be related to the next...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u47	I apologise, Minister, for entering your speech, but it concerns both Members in the right corner of the hall and Members in the left corner of the hall. If you want to discuss it, go to the lobby! Do not disturb the Members who listen who listen to Minister Marian Jurečka, and discuss in the foyer! Thank you for respecting that. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u48	Thank you, Mr President. That is why we proceeded to this step, which means roughly savings in state budget expenditure of CZK 0.6 billion for 11 months, and therefore efficiency is designed to affect this subsequently from February onwards. Since we are in January, we have a legislative process, even if we act in a state of legislative emergency, it is no longer possible to adjust expenditure and remuneration during January 2022. So much for a brief summary of the nature of this law. This means that we are adjusting the salary base for constitutional officials, judges and prosecutors to the same level as it was in 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u49	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Budgets, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 117/1. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Havránek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u50	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear members of the government, since this is my first performance here, I wish you a successful meeting and a successful year. As regards the proposal that we are discussing here, the Government presented it to the House on 5 January 2022, and on the same day, this proposal was sent to us by Members as a House press 117. As for the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which acted this morning and commissioned me to introduce you here, I will go straight into it: "Budgetary Committee [[I.]] proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies hold a debate on all parts of the bill; III. proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations no later than 24 hours on 11 January 2022; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the Government's bill as amended by the amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; and V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform this resolution of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." I would also like to say that, in the course of the negotiations of the Committee on Budgets, one amendment by Mr Hrnčíř was tabled, which was intended essentially to extend the deadline for the freeze of salaries until 31 December 2025, but this proposal was not adopted. I thank you at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u51	Thank you, rapporteur. Now and on the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets, we will decide whether to hold a general debate. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal for a general debate to be held on this point? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 32, with 171 Members registered, for proposal 143, against no one. We have expressed our agreement to hold a general debate. So I am opening up a general debate and registering two applications. The first is Mr Hrnčíř, then President Schillerová, but before that, Mr Okamura is given priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u52	All I have is a technical note, 'cause I've been performing here, so I took a leak, and if you could just use the gong. And it is also for the entire term - because many of us would not like to miss the vote. So I'd just like to ask you that there's a gong in there, so it'd be good to squeeze it sometime so we can show up and give us at least ten seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u53	No problem, I'll always ask you to take part in the negotiations. At the same time, however, it is necessary that each Member is responsible for monitoring the House of Deputies' negotiations and taking part in the vote. [[A part of the Members on the left is slightly opposed.]] But there is no problem pointing out the vote. I will therefore ask Mr Jan Hrnčíř to take the floor and prepare the duly signed-in President Alena Schillerová. We are in a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u54	Mr President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I've heard the words of Minister Jurečka here. I agree that the Czech Republic is in debt, that it is in debt quickly, that is true. I don't think we can save the state budget by freezing the salaries of constitutional officials for 11 months, which I think is really not enough and will require much more measures. Of course, there is also a big problem with rising energy prices, inflation growth, which means a lot of our households have problems, which means that we really need to move forward with a solid wage reduction and we believe that this is simply not enough for the 11 months. That is why I tabled an amendment on behalf of the SPD, which will freeze the salaries of constitutional officials by the end of 2025, that is, throughout the parliamentary term. These spared CZK 2.5 billion could help, for example, in addressing energy growth or as a reward for paramedics and the like. So I'm going to sign up for this in a very detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just for the record, I wanted to ask: I had Mr. Špičák's factual comment here, so I don't know if it was just that... No, okay, thank you. In this case, where appropriate, duly signed by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me defend my amendment, which is even more ambitious than my previous speaker's amendment. We are actually going back in part to the proposal put forward by the former government of Andrej Babiš, who actually grew up to the Senate where it was not approved. This means that I propose that the salary adjustment be made - I do not want to call it freezing, because it is actually a reduction today - the salary adjustment to be made until 31 December 2026, or for five years, as we suggested in the proposal that I quoted a moment ago. I would like to remind you that in 2021, there would also be a freeze on the salaries of constitutional officials, but it was linked to the fact that all public sector salaries were frozen in connection with the abolition of the supergross wage, when they all received 7 percent extra net, and in combination with a discount of CZK 3,000, we decided not to raise salaries across the board and it did not... We did it in time to make it clear from 1 January 2021, and it didn't cause any problems. [[18.30 hours]] So we will support the proposal, whatever form it eventually passes. We think that even if it passes in a form where the impact - plus impact I think - on public budgets will be negligible, that is the government proposal, it is completely negligible, but it is a symbol, too, so I want to point out, but let's still try to vote on the proposals. We will support, if this amendment fails, we will also support the SPD amendment, because it is still better at this point than the Government amendment, as it was tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I can't see. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'd like some final words, please. They're not. Allow me, therefore, to open up a detailed debate. Since no proposals have been made in the general debate, I am therefore opening a general debate. [[correct: detailed]] I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Did they come forward in a detailed debate? Anyone? [[The board is suddenly empty, although the names of Potter and Schiller were still shining there a while ago. A commotion in the hall.]] Excuse me, so Mr. Hrnčíř was signed in. I ask him to speak in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Looks like somebody deleted me from the board. I therefore subscribe to my amendment, which I have already tabled here, and is justified under House document number 250. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u59	Another was signed up by the Chairman of the ANO Club, Mrs Schillerová. prosit, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Don't worry about it, Mr. hrnčíř, I've been erased too. In a detailed debate, I am reporting to Amendment 258. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u61	Thank you very much. Does anyone else report to a detailed debate that has been deleted or deleted? Is Mr. Nacher here to make a point of fact? It's not like that. Thank you. I therefore do not register any applications for a detailed debate; I am ending the detailed debate. Again, I wonder if there is interest in final words? It's not. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposals tabled. Is it necessary to ask the rapporteur whether there is an agreement that we can continue voting on the amendments, which means that we can move on to third reading, or whether there is interest and demand to interrupt negotiations?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u62	Mr President, thank you. I believe I will not regret this decision. However, by only two amendments, I think we can proceed directly to the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u63	I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jiří Havránek, to follow along with me from the rapporteur's table the debate which I hereby open. Anyone reporting for the debate? I'm not registering anyone again. So I'm done with the debate. Again, I wonder if there is interest in final words? [[It's not.]] The motion for rejection did not come up, or we will vote on amendments or legislative technical amendments, and please the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Havránek, to introduce us to the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u64	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. As you have already mentioned, we did not receive any legislative technical comments following contact with the legislation, so I would like to propose a procedure such that we would first vote on Mrs Alena Schillerová's proposal, whose aim is to extend the proposed salary change from one year to five, namely until 31 December 2026, subsequently, if it had not been adopted, we would have voted on Mr Jan Hrnčíř's proposal if it had been adopted, so, of course, Mr Hrnčíř's proposal is unvoteable, and then the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u65	I'm asking if there's an agreement with this procedure, or if there's an alternative procedure proposal? If this is not the case, we can proceed according to the proposed procedure. I will ask Mr Havránek again to present the various amendments we will be voting on. I will rejoin them so that Members who want to vote may arrive from the lobby. In the meantime, I'll take the liberty of reading my apologies before my colleagues arrive. Dr. Pavel Staněk apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons. I think whoever wanted came to the O.R. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Havránek, to load the various amendments we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u66	We will therefore be the first to vote on Mrs Alena Schillerová's amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u67	Initiating vote. [[Reactions in the O.R., that's still opinions.]] Sorry. I am terminating the vote (number 33) as misguided. I'm asking for the Minister's opinion. [[Disagree.]] Disagree. So I'm just opening the vote now and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? He got held up? Voting number 34, 179, in favour 78, against 91. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur, another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u68	Since the proposal has been rejected, the other proposal is the proposal by Mr Hrnčíř, who aims to extend the period of the freeze of the salaries of constitutional officials until the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u69	Thank you. I'm asking for the Minister's opinion. [[No. Disagree.]] I am opening the vote on this amendment. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? He got held up? Voting number 35, 179 Members were enrolled, 79 Members were in favour, against 90. This amendment was also rejected. Mr rapporteur, I ask for another proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u70	Since we have dealt with all the amendments, we can proceed to the vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u71	Thank you very much. All proposals have been voted on. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the law as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on the salary and remuneration of a work emergency in budgetary and certain other organisations and bodies, as amended, as amended, according to House press 117, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking... Sorry, sorry. [[A commotion in the hall.]] Ending the vote. I declare it confusing. I'm asking the petitioner's opinion. [[Agreed.]] [[18.40 hours]] I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? He got held up? Voting number 37, 178 Members have been voted in favour of 173, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr Okamura is the President of the Okamura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, to translate for the citizens, so that everyone understands. So the new government of the STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates rejected the freezing of politicians' salaries for five years. Subsequently, this government rejected the freezing of politicians for four years and voted on the goal of freezing politicians' salaries for four years and then voted on their own strength to freeze politicians' salaries for less than a year. [[salaries]] So, of course, we supported it, because something is more than nothing, but it needs to be made clear how the new government coalition imagines a change, as the new wind imagines. And now, briefly speaking, I will put it in contrast with the fact that Petr Fiala, as Prime Minister, promised that by the last week of December, or now it is 14 days ago, he will present a plan to citizens that he will present a plan to resolve the increase in energy in the Czech Republic. The government didn't introduce any plan. There was no system plan introduced by the government! This means that there is no plan for citizens, there is no plan, and for most citizens there is no aid for the increase in energy, either from the government, but the government itself, the government's politicians themselves voted that instead of freezing salaries for four years or five years - there were two proposals - they frozen their salaries here for several months. Yes, thanks to the votes of the SPD, because our amendments, our amendment for four years, have been rejected. So that's what was voted on here. I am stressing this here because I have seen in the media some such misleading statements by government politicians that they are in favour of freezing the salaries of politicians. Well, the reality is this one that I'm saying here, so it's clear to everyone, so it's obvious what's been voted out here. It's a disgrace to people, it's a spit in the face of people who are getting more energy. You don't have a solution for them, but you suck yourself up with a full sip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-002-002.u73	Thank you very much for the speech, but let me say that we have closed the House press meeting number 117. And we'll continue with the program we have approved. The next item is
