ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I'm going to unsubscribe you all first. I ask that you re-enlist with your identification cards and, if necessary, report to me, as Mr Babka has already done, who will be voting with card number 38, who requests the issue of a replacement card. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence to the hearing: Adámková Věra for the whole working day, Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Babišová Andrea for the whole day for health reasons, Bělor Roman from 14.30 to 17.30 for working reasons, Bendl Petr for the whole working day, Dražilová Lenka for the whole working day, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole day for health reasons, Fialová Eva from 17.00 to midnight for health reasons, Golasowská Pavla for the whole Urbanová Barbora for the whole working day, Hrnčíř Jan for the Tesařík Antonín day - working grounds, Jáč Ivan for the whole working day for the whole family reasons, kolovratník Martin for the whole working day for the whole working day, Svoboda Bohuslav for the Wenzl Milan day for the whole working day, Opltová Michaela for the Potůčková day for family reasons, Potoučková Lucie from 18.30 to 23.45 for the whole working Špičák, Skopeček Jan to 16.30 for the whole Julius reasons of the whole day for the whole medical hearing for the whole day. From the members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal until 17.30 for work reasons and Vlastimil Válek the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel. With a replacement card 33 votes Mrs Jílková. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Madam Members, allow me to introduce you to the formalities for which I would ask for peace, because there will be a number of things about the information programme after all. I ask you to move your conversations to the foyer. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Once again, I also ask my colleagues in the left side of the hall to keep it down, or move to the foyer. On 3 June, by decision number 26, on the basis of the Government's proposal, I extended the state of legislative emergency until 1 July this year. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm just reminding you that there's a legislative emergency. The Chamber of Deputies confirmed on 31 May of this year before discussing the draft agenda for this meeting, so now we will no longer vote on it. It is a government bill on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and building rules in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, House press 228; Government bill on one-off child contribution, House press 242; Government bill amending Act No. 65/2002 Coll., on certain measures relating to armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, House print 243; Government bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, House print 244. With my decisions Nos 27 and 29, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session and ordered the House Press 228 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the House Press 242 of the Committee on Social Policy, the House Press 243 of the Committee on Security, and the House Press 244 of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and set a deadline for the Committees to present a resolution within 13 hours. I would now like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. This is indeed a rather detailed and long list, so I will ask you again to keep your voice down. Specifically, I'll name you if you don't keep your voice down. We propose: Firstly, to include new points in the approved agenda of the 25th meeting, namely drafts of laws that have been submitted in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency. This is the House Press 228 in the shortened negotiations, the House Press 242 in the shortened negotiations, the House Press 243 in the shortened negotiations and the House Press 244 - the shortened negotiations. Secondly, we propose to include two new points: supporting Ukraine's territorial integrity and condemning the Russian Federation's war aggression and House Document No. 849, which makes proposals by the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours. I will now introduce you to the proposed procedure for this week's negotiations. Today, on Tuesday, 14 June, we will discuss the draft laws put forward in the context of the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, in the following order: Parliament's Press 242 - Government Bill on One-time Child Allowance in the Short Term, House Press 244 - Government Bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine in shortened negotiations, House press 243 - Government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine, again in a short hearing, House press 228 - Government draft of the Act on Special Procedures in the Area Planning and Construction Code, in a short hearing. According to the agreement from Gremia, we would first discuss these bills in second reading and then in third reading. Tomorrow, on Wednesday, 15 June, we would discuss points from the Act block - first reading, in the following order: paragraph 33, House printing 222 - amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information, paragraph 23, House printing 139 - Government bill on the amendment of laws in connection with the use of digital instruments, paragraph 24, House printing 175 - amendment to the Act on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, paragraph 29, House printing 197 - Government bill on explosives precursors, paragraph 31, House printing 213 - Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, paragraph 27, House printing 160, which is the Government Bill on Support for Low Emission Vehicles, paragraph 30, House printing 199 - Government draft of the Act adjusting questions relating to the use of flats, and paragraph 27, House printing 163 - Amendment to the Law on Landing. The 25th meeting will then be adjourned at 10.45 because of the online appearance of the President of Ukraine, J E Mr. Volodymyr Zelenský. [[14.10 hours]] Five minutes after the end of this speech, the 25th meeting will continue by discussing a new item Supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine and condemning the war aggression of the Russian Federation. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss points from the Law block - first reading. At 1:30 p.m., we propose to discuss voting points 110 to 113. I remind you that an extraordinary 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin tomorrow at 15 o'clock. On Thursday, June 16, we will open our morning meeting at 10 a.m., as proposed from Gremia, by discussing points from the Law block - first reading in the order proposed from today's Gremia. At 18 o'clock, i.e. after the oral interventions, we would continue to discuss points according to the approved programme. On Friday, 17 June, we propose to discuss points from the Act block - second reading, in the following order: point 4, House print 72 - veterinary law; Point 5, House printing 57 - Amendment to the Act on Organic Agriculture; paragraph 13, House printing 73 - Amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products; paragraph 11, House printing 151 - Amendment to the Act on Plant Health Care; paragraph 12, House printing 138 - Amendment to the Act on the Protection of Hops. At 13:00 we propose to discuss a new point, and this is House document 849 - Proposals by the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours. The last information is that on 8 June 2022, the Government, by its resolution number 496, annulled its resolution number 362 of 4 May 2022 by which it submitted a Government proposal to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on the electronic publication of the Official Journal of the European Union, i.e. House printing 223-E. On the basis of this resolution, 223-E will no longer be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. This is paragraph 79 of the approved agenda of the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so please do not apply. This shall not be put to the vote. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. Now I have several applications for the agenda. Mr. Tomio Okamura came forward first. Mr Igor Hendrych, Patrik Nacher and Robert Králíček's applications follow. That's all there is to it so far. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm asking the rest of you to keep your voice down again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, as the first item in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, an item entitled "Peter Fiala's Government does not address the price increases and harms our citizens. Now I'd like to justify it. The dilettanteism of Petr Fiala's government also leads us to pay the highest prices for electricity and gas throughout Europe. The government doesn't give a shit about Czech citizens. Petr Fiala's government, ODS, has been in power for six months, but its results are very unsatisfactory. The government failed to combat rising inflation, which is one of the highest in Europe, and in June stood at a record 16 percent. Diletant government policy, combined with inactivity and service to foreign interests, also leads to the payment of the highest prices for electricity and gas throughout Europe. The government failed to manage the arrival of refugees in Ukraine. It turns out that neither the government nor the captains have had an overview of their number, the number of migrants, and their movement in our territory even after a few months. Many of the migrants have made the Czech state because of the government of Petr Fiala, due to the faulty system, the ATM for social benefits, but the ATM from the money of our citizens. I think it is really important that we place this point here and open it because the government is simply sticking its head in the sand, it is not happening and the citizens of the Czech Republic are in huge financial trouble. The government of Petr Fiala also places, without the knowledge of local governments and citizens, into various locations a group of inadaptable Roma migrants with Hungarian passports who are not entitled to the protection and assistance of the Czech state. The government has not submitted a single bill to the House to help Czech citizens and companies from the current inflation spiral and general cost. Instead of working for Czech citizens, the government devotes most of its energy to helping Ukrajinec. At the same time, they try at any cost to enforce correspondence choices that could easily be falsified. The results of STEM's research confirm the public's belief in government incompetence. 73 percent of the citizens believe that the government is failing to cope with the cost and price growth. So I think we're already proposing this here repeatedly, because the government is not offering any proposals to help citizens with the expensive, so here we repeatedly try to discuss our opposition proposals to deal with the expensive. But the government has been rejecting all opposition proposals for almost six months, and at the same time does not propose any positive proposals for citizens, and this is indeed a desperate situation for all citizens of the Czech Republic. That is why we are repeatedly proposing points on the agenda of the meeting to address the price increases and to help Czech citizens. When the government doesn't do it, the opposition is trying to do it, but the government's five ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates are blocking all our designs here. Citizens and companies, because of the inactivity of the Fialův Government, are crushing the drahota, but the government coalition of Petr Fiala, instead of dealing with the precious, presents other incredible proposals in the House. In the government coalition, their fellow parties are already so hungry for the troughs that in the House of Government MPs, despite opposition to opposition, pushed through the first reading a change in the law of service, so that the ministers, instead of the previous several civil servants, will be able to take on unlimited - and I would like to stress this - unlimited number of political deputys and specialised deputys will be completely abolished. So far, the Minister could have had only two political deputys. So now that citizens don't have money and the state budget is in deficit, government ministers in every ministry will be happy to employ ten completely unnecessary political deputys or rather ten political representatives from government party parties for CZK 100 to 150,000 a month. Government parties are said to be impatiently waiting for these places, so it can be combined by hundreds of unnecessary government political friends, plus those employed in ministries and all paid by citizens from their taxes. There is really only one thing to say - resignation! From the reign of Petr Fiala, many Czech citizens are already in trouble. Another matter: Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka - he is also President of KDU-ČSL - instead of working for citizens, he now came up with the idea that he wants to rename the Ministry, which will cost a large public money. He's planning on adding the word family. What can I say? The family is first for the SPD, but in my opinion, instead of thinking about changes in names, Minister Jurečka should finally start working on how quickly and effectively to help families and all decent people in financial problems in connection with the price increase. But neither he nor the government of Petr Fiala make the ODS at all. Another problem is that the government, as we know, has pushed through the first reading of the law, taking CZK 14 billion from health insurance companies, making access to health care worse for our citizens. Now it comes with some valorisation, but even after the valorization, but not until next year, but even after the valorization, insurance companies will get less, less money than they should get before the government took away CZK 14 billion, so a clear deterioration in the availability of health care for our citizens. [[14.20 hours]] And the SPD just doesn't agree with all that. Therefore, by the way, the SPD movement has already started collecting petitions, it is available for download on the website www.spd.cz, and it is a petition of citizens against upheaval. By signing this petition, citizens can directly call on the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS to finally address the astronomical increase in basic life needs and to help people whose situation is worse every day. More and more citizens are sinking into existential poverty and debt and execution traps. According to recent inflation figures, natural gas prices are year-on-year higher by 49,2 %, fuels by 44,3 %, solid fuel prices by 30.1 %, electricity prices by 30.8% and heat prices by 17.8%. On an ever-increasing number of families and households, the general cost falls, their savings fall, or they are already lost. More than half of the working Čech, according to the Fair Credit survey, have a hard time getting paid. Every tenth citizen has to borrow before paycheck and 43 percent of working people live from paycheck to paycheck, while before the start of emergency it was 28 percent, but it was also during the reign of Petr Fiala. As energy and fuel prices skyrocketed, trades and businesses cease to exist. The government of Petr Fiala, composed of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates, clearly bears responsibility for this terrible condition. An incompetent government that does not have the trust of citizens and cannot solve the serious problems of our country must resign. Of course, I was also very unpleasantly surprised, but what has been confirmed by the representatives of the government coalition here for several months has been saying that the Fialův coalition, together with the ANO movement, together with the support of all of the more than 300,000 Ukrainian migrants who would like to stay with us permanently in order to be allowed to do so, regardless of whether or not there is a war on their territory. On Sunday, the Minister of Education Petr Vondrák said it in Questions Václav Moravec on Czech Television, for the government said it, sorry, Petr Gazdík for STAN and for the ANO movement the Vice-President of the ANO movement Ivo Vondrák said it. I was watching those questions at the time, switching the TV, and I had to stay there because I didn't believe my eyes. This means, even the YES movement through the mouth of the Vice-President of the ANO Ivo Vondrák movement, he said on the show that who wants to stay permanently from the 300,000 migrants so that they can stay in the Czech Republic, regardless of whether there is war or not. Just who wants to stay with the people who came, let them stay here. So what about the availability of health care for Czech citizens? What about the quality of teaching in Czech schools? So it would be appropriate here, because I had no idea that even the ANO movement had these opinions, so that it would, of course, distance itself from the Vice-President of the Ivo Vondrák movement, because we did not hear any distance. So, yes, that's right, the SPD movement is the only party that says - the only party in the House, which clearly states that we have only real war refugees, we have adequate help, only for the necessary time, and after the war in that place ends or is not there - but the war is not on most of Ukraine's territory, nor in most Ukraine's territory - so they should return to Ukraine. But on the one hand, it's a good thing the only SPD has that opinion. Of course, we knew, but I must say to me that what the Vice-President of the ANO Ivo Vondrák movement said to Václav Moravec, I consider that from the political, political point of view of the SPD that we cannot agree with this. We cannot agree with this because it fully corresponds with the views of the government coalition, when Prime's government strategy on migrants had already been announced on TV by the Government Member TOP 09 Ondřej Kolář, I quote: "We will have to delete the difference between the incoming and our citizens. Soon, refugees will also become Czech citizens." So we certainly disagree with this in the SPD, and therefore we are the only party in Parliament to make this clear. And it doesn't bother us that we're the only side here, we're just standing by that opinion. We do not need to find new voters from Ukraine's migrants, to whom the government coalition wants to hand out citizenship. So these are all things that need to be discussed, because it is obvious that here, that these views, there are increasingly unacceptable opinions for us and I dare say that for a number of citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as my point is concerned that the government is harming our citizens, there are, of course, more reasons why I propose this, because Petr Fiala's government has deceived voters in other ways. Despite the promise of budgetary responsibility, the deficit of the state budget increases. The ODS government of Petr Fiala broke her next election vow. Although the electorate has committed to reducing the state budget deficit, the Ministry of Finance is counting on a deficit of CZK 295 billion in the draft state budget for 2023, i.e. 15 billion higher than this year, although VAT collection is increasing. I would just like to say that we haven't seen the talk here for quite a while, but even from the media space the Vice-President of the ODS and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura slowly disappeared. Yeah, he's been lecturing people about budgetary responsibility all the time in the past, he's been tricking voters, and now that they're proposing even more debt than the Czech Republic's government essentially in debt to Andrej Babiš, and now I'm not talking about the reasons I'm talking about the numbers, he's suddenly disappearing from the media in the last few weeks because it's clear to him that he can't figure it out. Because they made promises, you made promises of unrealistic nonsense in a government coalition, an unrealistic program, and now it's caught up with you for six months. And not only does the government of Petr Fiala expect a deficit of CZK 295 billion for next year, i.e. 15 billion higher, although VAT is rising, the government has determined, in turn, the Ministry of Finance, led by Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, Vice-President of the ODS, so you set a deficit of CZK 298 billion in the so-called medium term in the state budget in 2024 to CZK 297 billion and in 2025 you set a deficit of CZK 298 billion. This means, and there have already been articles of economists and analysts about it, you actually owe the Czech budget even more in sum than the government of Andrej Babiš. Well, we've been in opposition, so we're not responsible for that in the last term, but that's normally an incredible voter scam, and we need to talk about this. The government here, immediately after its accession, resigned to any attempt at budgetary responsibility. On the contrary, the SPD movement has a set of measures to be taken under budgetary policy, so, as is our custom, on the one hand, the YES criticism, on the other hand, but we also have a specific solution that we will always mention. On the expenditure side, we require, among other things, an immediate halt to the payment of subsidies to private enterprises such as solar barons, which is about CZK 40 billion, the end of funding of politically non-profit organisations. We want to change the concept of so-called strategic purchases at the Ministry of Defence. This means, we say yes to modernization, we certainly say this, we say yes to strengthening the Czech army, but we are talking about changing the strategy, which we have introduced many times through the mouths of our expert, Colonel in reserve and Member Radovan Vích. And, of course, we also want to end the abuse of benefits, social benefits for the inadaptable. That's the bill the government coalition has rejected this year. [[14.30 hours]] On the revenue side, this should then be the introduction of a sectoral tax for multinational Internet companies that generate huge profits without any taxation. This is, of course, a law that has already been introduced in some Western countries, because, of course, they are collecting huge advertising profits here, that's fine, but not taxing in the Czech Republic at all, and it is also taxing dividends from the Czech Republic by foreign corporations. The exit rate is around CZK 200 billion to CZK 500 billion per year from the Czech Republic on the basis of the EU exception. The overall contribution of these measures is in the order of hundreds of billions of crowns and would mean a relatively rapid return to balanced or even surplus state budgets. Well, Petr Fiala's government, because it made promises in Washington, made promises in Brussels, so of course there is no money left for Czech citizens. And now all Czech citizens are paying for it with this outrageous price that Petr Fiala's government literally refuses to deal with. So this is the first point that I would like to propose, because I think that these topics have been very popular again, and I will just repeat that we would like it to be the first point in today's meeting, because the expensive and situation around migrants from Ukraine, these two topics really are one of the main topics now, or perhaps the two main topics with which citizens are dissatisfied, at least the voters of the SPD and YES. At least the SPD voters are unhappy with it - I don't want to speak for the Yes voters, but I didn't mean that right now - and it just needs to be discussed. So if the government - I just want to point out that this is basically the last full-week meeting of the House before the summer vacation or the summer. We don't have a vacation on the SPD, of course we work continuously and permanently, but I suspect the government wants to declare a government holiday. [[Laughs in the Chamber, Mrs Schiller remarked from the point of view: neither do we.]] So, unfortunately, we in opposition will only have to adapt when the government announces summer holidays instead of working. So enough with the government meeting on Monday.... [[Minister Černochová notes something off the microphone from the government bench.]] Secretary Černochová here is talking to me and trying to justify it. You will not justify that, Madam Secretary, through.... [[Minister Černochová is saying something again.]] Yeah, but-- well, I can hear you, and according to the Rules of Procedure, you're talking to a microphone, so it's on its own. I'd ask you not to bother me like that. And since the government originally worked on Monday, you switched it to Wednesday afternoon because you don't want to work on Monday, so it's also narrowed our time here in the House for our work. So this is the point, and I would like us to be the first point in today's program - because the price increase is the problem that needs to be solved, and you just don't solve it. And we want to help people in the SPD, we have a number of proposals, and we've already introduced them. You don't have any proposals, you haven't made any major proposals here in six months. And then I have a second point, which I would like to put as a second point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so that is a point called Ban on petrol and diesel cars will be overwhelmingly damaging to the economy of the Czech Republic and our citizens. So I will do it again so that the President here can note: The ban on petrol and diesel will be overwhelmingly damaging to the economy of the Czech Republic and our citizens. Well, that is up-to-date now, and it really is a crazy vote by government MEPs, because government MEPs have literally damaged millions of Czech citizens by voting in the European Parliament, because because of the European Union for many citizens, a car will become unavailable in the Czech Republic. The European Parliament has approved one of the main points of the Green Deal agreement for the approval of government MEPs, and this is a ban on the sale of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles with internal combustion engines since 2035. This means the actual obligation of car manufacturers with internal combustion engines to produce only electric vehicles after that date. Very expensive, impractical, and compared to today's cars and dangerous electric cars, however, only the richest will be able to afford. Moreover, there is absolutely no infrastructure for this, such as on housing sites or motorways. For many citizens, a car becomes unavailable with all the conceivable negative consequences, because electric cars are estimated to be two to three times more expensive than existing cars with internal combustion engines. So how will it be, according to the government coalition, that - in this way, the government MEPs have damaged millions of Czech citizens - how will dads do it from families in the countryside when they need to go to work? He needs to go to work in the morning for, like, ten kilometers, he needs to go to a nearby town or a couple of villages next door, what are they gonna go to work for? At night in the country, in the village, when something happens to their grandmother, grandpa, or something, they need an emergency emergency, are they supposed to ride a bike? That is absolutely incredible, crazy policy of the government coalition of Petr Fiala. This measure will have an overwhelming negative impact on the economy of the Czech Republic, which is based on the automotive industry and therefore on the level of unemployment and standard of living of Czech citizens. Members of the Czech government parties - Pirates and TOP 09 - voted for this against the Czech Republic and our citizens in the European Parliament. So both from the coalition of the SPOLU and from the Pirstan coalition, so basically from the two government blocks of the five-calice. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala, as usual, keeps his mouth shut and shoves his head in the sand instead of commenting on it, because silence is consent, so the government agrees, of course, that's obvious. Otherwise, they would have said immediately that they did not agree with the vote TOP 09 and the Pirates. But everyone's quiet because they agree. Yes, Pirates and TOP 09, the parties to the government coalition, have damaged millions of Czech citizens by not having them on cars. That's right. But I have a suggestion here about what to do about it. The last way to reverse this measure will be the vote in the Council of Ministers for the European Union's environment, which is insufficient, because it will not help the environment, but it will endanger the economy and social stability, but therefore, in my view, because there is one more vote, so it should be discussed; (a) I think the ministers of these ministries, which the government should enforce, should promote, and, above all, the Minister of the Environment should vote against and convince others in the European Union. You say that the Czech Republic will have some influence within the Presidency, the Presidency in the Council of the European Union will now be next month. I say that the Czech Republic will have no influence on anything. Let's see, let's see! The SPD Movement calls on the Czech Government to vote against this proposal and to try to block this proposal completely within the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Let's see what you can do, block it. This example clearly shows that the obligations arising from membership of the European Union are clearly harmful to the Czech Republic and our citizens, and Petr Fiala's government is merely a servilious nod to this because it is not the Czech government. Citizens of you, many citizens, and these are not individuals, a huge number of citizens nicknamed you as the Ukrainian government and Prime Minister Petr Fiala is the Ukrainian Prime Minister, and I must agree with that. It is because you have no energy for Czech citizens, you have no energy for Czech citizens and you help Ukrajinec, you don't give a damn about Czech citizens, and when there is some time left, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka here is wasting time preparing to rename the Ministry. This is an incredible mockery to all citizens of the Czech Republic. So I propose these two points and please to the Chamber of Deputies for approval. It's up to the members of the government coalition, they have a majority here, because - and now it turns out in the vote - whether you want to deal with the price increase or not - it's too late, you don't do it anymore, he's been gone for six months and you've already missed the train, and we've been drawing attention to this since winter. I would just like to point out that you already have a majority in this Chamber of Deputies for three quarters of a year. Nearly a year after the election, when you have a majority here, and you have not proposed a single law in comparison with other countries and within the Central European region, which would help Czech citizens to get more expensive across the board and basically. That's just a fact, and all citizens feel it on their wallets. [[14.40 hours]] Unfortunately, the situation will only get worse, because you should have proposed all these measures in winter, spring. The SPD here represented concrete proposals, you arrogantly rejected the proposals, and now it's drifting through your fingers. Prime Minister Petr Fiala travels abroad instead of focusing on the Czech Republic. Only last week, he was on a three-way abroad, but there are no systemic propositions against a raise on the table. And with cars, with the ban on internal combustion engines - I warn you that this is a huge problem, because the Czech industry is dependent on the automotive industry, there is a huge number of Czech citizens working there and it generates large revenues for the Czech Republic, so it is not just about employment, it is also - that is very important - that people will lose their jobs. MEPs, government MPs, vote to ban internal combustion engines, so they will only be two, three times more expensive electric cars for which a number of citizens will not have money. Do you have any idea what this will do to employment in the Czech Republic? What will it do with income for the Czech Republic? What will it do to the standard of living in the Czech Republic? I think, as I know the members of the government coalition, they vote only from the side, they don't have thought-out, concepts and strategies missing, or they vote only according to the dictatorships that they propose to you from above, which we saw in the election of the Czech Television Council, when you were doing your election tickets or you pointed them out to each other, we will get to that tomorrow, of course, that will still be tomorrow's topic. You're introducing a North Korean model here, which means you've made a secret election public, luckily for yourself, but that's your concept of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u3	I will now read the other two apologies that have come from Mrs Jílková, who apologizes today between 5:00 p.m. and the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes until 15.30 for work reasons. Now two priority rights to the agenda. First Vice-President Havlíček, then President Schillerová will be prepared and then several other applicants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to add three points. I will introduce them gradually and explain why I am asking them to be included in today's meeting. Energy support. We may have noticed that individual countries are beginning to overtake energy support. In the last five days alone, Spain and Portugal have applied for support, amounting to CZK 200 billion. This is the framework that they had approved within the European Commission for the so-called Iberian market, namely CZK 150 billion Spain and CZK 50 billion Portugal. Their aim is to create tools to ensure that energy in the markets of these two countries is not sold for more than EUR 40 per megawath hour in the next six months. Just for the sake of illustration, it is approximately five times less price than today's spot price in the Czech Republic. If you have registered, Austria has today come up with a proposal for a framework of CZK 700 billion, once again CZK 700 billion, in particular in support of social and corporate support. I just remind you that Austria had already implemented the area support with a special supplement for all households a few months ago. I mentioned Germany last time, which, in addition to fuel support, pays a contribution of CZK 4 to 8 per litre and a special incentive tariff for all public transport passengers in Germany also pays a flat-rate special surcharge of EUR 300 for each family, or an additional EUR 100 for families with children. At the same time, Germany introduced measures a few months ago, reducing it to half the charges for renewable resources. And to that point, my two points, traditionally, almost as much as 14 days I represent it here, and until effective energy aid is ready, I will do so, because so far what the government is preparing under a special energy-saving tariff, it does not exactly build up confidence - not only by saying different figures by each minister, so how much I can do in this support: if I am not mistaken, the Minister of Industry and Trade is thinking that it should be between 16 and 25 billion, the Minister of Education raised even €50 billion on Sunday, but it is not known whether it will be a tariff on current prices, whether it will be a special tariff tied to an increase in price, whether it will be affected by some household consumption, from when it will be, by which mechanism it will be paid, and in general it is an extremely complicated solution that is not tested anywhere in the world. We are not saying that we cannot come up with something like this, but why are we going this complicated way when we can use a simplified instrument to reduce payments for renewable resources, which is CZK 19 billion per year for companies and households. That would be assuming that these payments would be forgiven 100%, but even we can go with the so-called negative tariff, which would actually mean that the government would determine the exact amount of the contribution for the household or for the company. It's simple, it's fast, and it's to a large extent symbolic, because no one will understand today that they're supposed to pay for a solar tunnel when we have an energy crisis. To that end, I would like to include these two points - it is specifically paragraph 69, Madam President, the proposal for the Act on the Promotion of Renewable Resources, and at the same time point 70, and this is the proposal for the Act on the Conditions for the Trading of greenhouse gas emission allowance, on the grounds that we are also proposing where and how the financing of the forgiveness of these payments can be used. Not only is it possible to use other sources, whether the sources of budget or resources from ČEZ via dividend, but then we have the source of the Modernization Fund, such that before the money from the European Commission arrives, it is possible to use these resources by amending the law and partly to pay for this support instrument. The third point I would like to propose today is the point I have called as follows: it is the Information on the sale of real estate and state-owned companies. I'll explain what's going on. Before the end of the year, we warned against selling any assets, so as not to sell state assets, so as not to make an argument that we needed funding, so that stories from abroad would not be interpreted, and with a certain amount of exaggeration, I said at the time that the gallows and various godfathers are undoubtedly already on the brands. We just didn't want to go back twenty, twenty-five years, until we privatized the refineries, when we privatized the gas transport, when we privatized the gas distribution, when we privatized the gas purchases and sales, or trading, and when we unhappyly privatized ČEZ, because even now the government has virtually no room for manoeuvre to do anything with wholesale energy prices. The second thing is what can be done about the so-called regulated component, but that's what we've dealt with here many times. [[14.50 hours]] Yes, we heard from government officials that he was on the lookout, that perhaps the Czech Post would be sold, that perhaps the Czech Railways would be sold, that ČD Cargo was discussed several times, which we strongly rejected during our work. Yes, he was already interested in privatizing ČD Cargo. We believe that's not the way. On the contrary, the aim today is to push the profitability of this carrier to the maximum, and we have also said what the scenario will be. We estimated that the scenario would be bravely argued first by missing money, then by destroying key people, and then by showing foreign examples. With regard to the exchange of personnel, the tsunami has already occurred, by approving the Civil Service Act, the government has opened the door to installing the people it needs. Today, under the code name of deagrofertization, quality people from individual offices leave, but of course, the government has the right to do so. After yesterday's meeting of the TOP 09 Bureau and the subsequent communication by the President, whether TOP 09 or the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "The removal of the structural deficit requires permanent measures, but we also need to look at the possibility of selling assets of a State which is not essential for the exercise of its principal functions, both immovable and partly owned companies, will bring revenue to the State." So the second point we assumed was also fulfilled. Now we expect them to begin to decompose and tell stories from abroad, how such companies operate entirely on a private basis. Since we consider this to be a fundamental thing, an important thing and a matter that has been approved by a member of the five-wheelers, and because it has also been presented by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, we would like to hear what the government's intention is, in fact, whether it is really on the table which types of companies, real estates, businesses are considering selling in what time horizon? Thank you. As for the individual points, I would like them to start today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u5	That means in order, as you mentioned - first, second, third, do I get it right? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. The next priority right is President Schillerová, and Minister Stanjura is also reporting. Please, Madam President, you have the floor. [[President Schiller prefers Minister Stanjur, who wants to respond to the very ones mentioned.]] So if that's what you agreed to, I'll beg you, and thank you for the possibility of a reaction. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u6	Thank you for your privilege so I can react briefly. Unfortunately, this Thursday I am in Luxembourg at ECOFIN, but I will be happy to answer any of the next interviews. I don't think anything you've painted here is going to happen. There's no way I'm keeping a secret from him that he's necessary state property. I mentioned it here when taking up office that, in particular, as regards immovable property, I would like to facilitate the transfer of this property to the county, municipalities and cities if these municipalities present meaningful projects and the use of the property. That doesn't change anything. Certainly not the fact that we are planning a privatisation that would have a major impact on the revenue of the state budget. There is no privatisation of Cargo, Czech Railways and Czech Post. We're still looking at one of my answers to the question I got, if I can imagine -- I was saying, theoretically, I can imagine -- that some minority share is going to sell through the stock exchange, and that's it. That was one answer to one particular question. It's not in the government's programming statement, it was long before the election. There's no such thing. I would just like to remind you that Vice-President Havlíček was the one who wanted to sell metal out of the state's material reserves as unnecessary. Today, we are trained in the need to complement the State's material reserves. I think you should choose and have the same opinion, whether you're sitting in opposition or in a government stand. You designed the exact same thing, something completely different than today. We stopped it. And we're not going to, I can calm you down, through Madam President, we're not going to sell the metals from the state's material reserves that you designed and justified that they're very worthless, that they're lying there for nothing and that the money could be used. I could remind you how you wiped out privatization funds, other reserves, but there's no point in that. However, don't paint here stories that something is going on and you want to prevent it. It's not going to happen. Yes, there are cases where I think it was reasonable to sell the minority stake that the state owns. I'll give you one particular case. Somebody explain to me why the state has a minority stake in a company that makes radiators. Explain it to me. Besides, there's no long-term... So far, there hasn't been a match with the other owners, where about a third has a state, a third has an ESDP, and a third have private owners, so there's no agreement that dividends would be paid out. Dividends don't pay off, they just burden the problem. If I can find a match with the other owners, I'm sure I'll come up with a privatisation project for this minority share of the government. It's not a priority, it's not what we deal with eight hours a day. But this is a specific case where we could agree that I actually see no reason to own a minority stake in this manufacturing company, from which the state has no revenue. It's not a political thing, it's a practical thing. None of the major state firms you're talking about, none of that is going to happen. But I have noted your President's statement that 30 per cent of ČEZ would need to be redeemed, as your President says. So first, make a deal inside YES whether you propose or not to propose a privatisation or buy-out, and then seriously talk about it. In fact, I don't know if we should sell the metals in your opinion, Mr Vice-President, or not. We don't want to sell them, unlike the one you wanted to sell them. Otherwise, I consider it unnecessary for him to be a point in plenary. However, I say, at the next interview, if I am not abroad at ECOFIN, I will be happy to answer you, perhaps in more detail, or send me a written interview, I will be happy to answer at least for the part relating to the Ministry of Finance department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček is now claiming priority rights, and the President agrees. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u8	I thank the Minister of Finance for the clarification. I'm glad he doesn't think so. And yes, it is true that I responded, Minister, to your interview six months ago, when it really happened that the Czech Railways or the Czech Post could be in the spotlight of the government in the sense of privatization. That's one thing. I would not have responded to this, nor to the earlier conversation, I could have opened it at any time, but I responded to the fact that yesterday the important government party TOP 09 came up with this statement, which was presented today by the President of this party, where she repeated it, and since it is on the table for several hours, it is finally written by some media today, so I wanted to open this point and I wanted to hear a clear opinion for which I thank. As far as CEZ is concerned, it's the exact opposite. We do not want to privatize ČEZ. We argue that privatization in the 1990s was unfortunate in the sense that 30 per cent of private entities owned and 70 per cent of the state that virtually nothing can be done there. It is unfortunate in terms of strategic decisions, and today it is preventing us, and you too, Minister, in a number of important decisions. But I'm not blaming anyone today, I'm just saying it was wrong. And the fact that it would be right to try to get ČEZ below the higher level of control, yes, is our long-term view. Now it's just a question of how to do it - not by buying 30 percent directly, that would be over 200 billion crowns. The option is to use various scenarios - so-called clean or dirty CEZ, to divide it into production, to trade and to gain 100% control over production. Yes, this is our intention, this is our opinion. And if we were in the government today, we will certainly strive to gain a 100% share of ČEZ's production. What kind of model do that, that's the other thing. Variant is a few. And the last thing about those unfortunate ingots in the Material Reserves Administration. Yes, I have the same opinion, Minister. And if you get an analysis of what's actually lying there, how long it's been there, sometimes 30 years, it's still ingots from the Soviet era. At a time when companies need alloys, not this raw material that is unusable, it is better to sell it, to get it for it - it was in market values between CZK 2 and 2.5 billion - and to allocate those resources to something more important, once again to the Material Reserves Administration. Whether it's food or some kind of energy commodity, that's another thing. But please, let us have an analysis of what we can do about it or not, and you will certainly come to a similar conclusion. Ingots are of no great importance today, except for absolute exceptions, and it is therefore better to sell this part of the Material Reserves Administration and allocate it to more needed things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. Anyone else claiming priority rights is the Minister of Finance, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u10	Thank you. I'm sure it's really not possible for me right now, so I'm not gonna say what the government is up to or aren't going to do, I don't think that's necessary. Just one rhetorical question, rhetorical: eight years you were in government, eight years of the movement was in charge of the Ministry of Finance, eight years later, for example, you did nothing to gain any greater influence in ČEZ. You've barely switched benches, you're already giving us a lot of unsolicited advice on what to do in this regard. What have you done in eight years? How much did you raise when it's a long-term priority, as you just said, Mr Vice-President, a long-term priority, what did you do in it? I'll answer for you because it's a rhetorical question - nothing at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, Minister. We're on the agenda for an approved meeting. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, has now signed up with priority rights. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will only briefly respond to the draft item of the programme that has been made here by Vice-President Havlíček. I am really glad that you are noticing the resolution that I will now - I will correct you - not yesterday the TOP 09 adopted on its Bureau. We also write exactly that it is to discuss whether the state should actually own what it owns, to operate what it operates. A classic example is brewing beer. I really don't think the state is supposed to cook it, and I also don't think we should run a hotel and stuff like that. I'm sure it's for debate to bring about the privatisation of some businesses, but we really want to open the debate. I appreciate the fact that you would have already brought her here to the Chamber of Deputies and that you are so eager, however, please, and in this regard, let the rest of you, first let us discuss this in the coalition. I'm sure we'll discuss it, and then eventually you'll get your turn to the debate, too, from the opposition, who've had the opportunity to do something about it for so many years without doing so. So I believe you don't expect this to be a matter of several days, hours, but it's a question of really going forward. But we will be glad if you too will be able to have this discussion with us, and of course I am not opposed to that at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u13	Thank you, Madam President, and please the next enrollment, and this is with the priority right of President Schillerová. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u14	Thank you. I'll just give you a brief response. We will certainly have this debate, Madam President, through the Vice-President, because I think the state should keep the brewery, which is its family silver, but thanks to the fact that it manages the state, it is in black numbers. I think he should keep the Thermal Hotel, which has become a cultural world stand and hosts the International Film Festival every year. I think all of this, and I think that the state should keep everything, because the times when the state was ready were lost where what, I hope they're behind us. And we'll keep an eye on that very carefully. Now, please, to the point I want to load. Repeatedly, because I will not give up, I will not give up on any meeting, repeatedly allow me to apply for inclusion on the agenda of the House Press 158 and the House Press 184 - and I will justify them both at the same time: reducing VAT on energy and fuel. My colleague, Vice-President of the House, Karel Havlíček, spoke of Austria's massive assistance, which takes place these days after Austria has already made a very substantial reduction in taxes, for example, some of the collected, so it is now helping massively. The aid is really CZK 700 billion, and it aims across society at groups of whether seniors, families with children and others. I want to remind you of one thing I don't know if my colleague Karel Havlíček said. Austria has a debt of 83% of GDP. At the end of 2021, the Czech Republic had 41.9 percent of GDP even after we had to assist in the covid, in the context of the health and economic crisis. It was still less than when we took double debt and massive flat aid from the ODS and the SPOLU finance coalition in 2014, and you know how much inflation they have? Inflation is 7.1 %. Let's just say it all hard. This means that the Czech Republic, and this is a well-known fact that we know, according to EUROSTAT information from April 2022, we do not have newer data yet, it is dealing with the third largest inflation in the whole of the European Union. We know that yesterday or before yesterday the Czech Statistical Office published current figures: 16.2. And I don't think it's possible to just throw it at other people, it's not possible to throw it at the war in Ukraine - surely the war has a share in it, we don't question that, but other states are struggling with the consequences of the war in Ukraine, and they don't have such high inflation. I could read it here right now, but I don't want to over-extend this meeting. Now that I'm here, I'm picking out the individual items, the food - absolute drama, the rise in food prices. I can take it from here, these are really just sums and basic foods that are unfinanceable for certain groups, and they're not just socially needed groups anymore. Living, aqueous, wavy, really basic foods, that's - take just flour, that acceleration year-on-year is almost 65 percent, milk 42, eggs 33,8, butter almost 52 percent and so on. However, what is falling undoubtedly according to the Czech Statistical Office numbers is a real wage, which has fallen by 3.6 percent and decreased by more than 90 percent of households. This week fuel, namely gasoline, was the most expensive in the history of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, but no one noticed there was a famous government deštník. But instead of excise duty, that crown of fifty, which, just as you've been told from this place several times, is lost on the road to the final consumer, and it's also lost because no one recognizes it, didn't feel it. Ask the people, I'm sure you're also tanking, ask them, they'll tell you. It was enough to reduce VAT instead of this excise duty. And yet, when I looked at it - I am waiting for the government to approve it to be fair - when I looked at the first draft budget for 2023, which the Ministry of Finance presented and sent it to the government, so I assume that it was debating - even though it is the most refined budget that I have ever seen, which only contains revenue, expenditure and aggregate amounts of individual chapters - and I looked at the outlook for the years 2024 and 2025, added to that already approved budget 2022, and I do not know yet what the amendment will look like for 2022, so we are at 1,200,000. And what do citizens get out of it? What's in it for the firms? They don't get anything out of it. So it's going to be a big and long debate, and I think citizens see it when you see it in all sorts of surveys, but I'm not talking about electoral models right now - because I didn't overestimate them wherever we were, I'm not going to talk about surveys where citizens are sinking into poverty, where they think the government isn't dealing with the issue of this inflation and these problems. That's what I'm talking about, and you have, every week, the media comes to see us, see where you look. Ownership has become an unreachable dream for many people, ask young people. Now we're probably going to have to raise interest rates again, thinking maybe it can move up to 8%, we'll see, I don't want to anticipate, but that's just combined with all these problems, with inflation absolutely, absolutely unattainable. And, of course, rental housing is also getting expensive. It's not just that if you can't get a place to live, you're going to rent. You just have to pay the rent, too, and it's one of the highest items that the household has. [[15.10 hours]] Record price growth threatens not only the income weakest layers of the population, but, as I said, the so-called middle class is affected. We monitor the phenomenon of price level growth not only in the Czech Republic but also in the surrounding countries, it is a global phenomenon. Most inflation is imported, so we cannot blame the government, nor the previous one, nor the current one, on inflation. We do not call this inflation 16.2 % Fialův expensive, unlike inflation, which was a little over 5 percent at the end of 2021 and you called it Babišův's expensive. So let's not do this, let's be fair, but we're angry with the government that he's not doing anything about it, that he's hiding behind the deštník, and he says there's an umbrella that's very leaky, but people don't feel it. He doesn't feel this real help. We have proposed and proposed a reduction in VAT for several months. A whole number of countries have come to this, a whole number of countries have done it, hand in hand, of course, with a splash. Logically, now I hear that they did it in Poland and prices went up there -- well, logically, when stock prices went up, prices have to jump everywhere, but if it's hit by VAT, the price is lower, still lower than in countries that don't have it. Likewise, of course, these prices, energy, fuel are being translated into all other prices. Why are we growing so much food? Certainly our agricultural experts would list other factors such as feed prices, prices of various chemicals and other things, but the basis is energy and fuel. Everyone needs energy, and everyone has to drive, and that, of course, is reflected in everything, and different countries also respond differently. Just for the record, I'm talking about VAT on energy and fuel right now, but the VAT on food in our country is one of the highest ever in the surrounding states, so even here would be space, at least for the basics, to crop and cut. But now I'm talking about reducing VAT to energy and fuel. I could name other states here to help, at least let me have a few. I was talking about Austria, I'm not going to name them all. Germany: inflation rate 7.8, debt ratio of almost 70 percent of GDP, yet massive flat-rate aid, reduction in fuel prices due to government intervention by up to CZK 9 per litre, one-off benefits, contributions, discounted ticket price of EUR 9. Poland: inflation 11.4, debt almost 54 percent, reduction of VAT to natural gas to zero, significant reduction of VAT to fuel, basic food and so on. Slovakia: 10.9 inflation, debt of over 63 percent, measure package for almost 1.3 billion euro, ceiling of electricity price by the end of 2024, saving up to 12 000 CZK for individual households, raising child allowance and tax bonus, while receiving a one-off contribution to a large proportion of households. I already talked about Austria. Croatia: 9.6 inflation, debt almost 80 per cent VAT. Measures: a significant reduction in VAT on heat levies, a reduction in VAT on gas, a reduction in VAT on solid fuels, a one-off contribution, retail ceilings for petrol and diesel, a reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel, a reduction in margins on fuel prices and so on. France - watch out, this is the biggest bomb - inflation 5.4 %, debt 11,9 percent of GDP, 11,9 percent of GDP! And their help? The preferential gas tariff, the state-owned company sells electricity below market price, the increase in electricity prices limited, the one-off levy for almost 38 million people, the fuel contribution and so on. I could go on. I don't want us to waste valuable time here. We have to approve today - and I believe that this will succeed - in a legislative emergency very important laws, but I also dare to propose the inclusion of these two prints as the first and second items of the meeting today if it is not approved, so as the first and second points of the negotiations on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u15	Thank you and now I would like another logged in. I no longer see anyone with virtue, so please Mr Igor Hendrych. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I propose that today's meeting include a point of funding social services from Chapter 313 of the MPSV in 2022, and I propose that it be placed after all my predecessors at the end of the points that have now been said or proposed. What it is - the justification of my proposal. I'm already 29. 3. from this point he pointed out that social services, or their financing from Chapter 313, were grossly underfunded. Even at a time when the state budget was approved, they received some 20 percent less from this chapter, which primarily covers wages and salaries in social services and partially operates, than they requested, or 20 percent less than is real for them to function. At the time it was doing about 1 billion, maybe 1.5 billion, and of course the energy crisis and so on and so on, according to the analysis of two institutions, which are the Association of Social Services Providers and also the Committee of the Czech Social Affairs Association Council, we can see from these analyses that we are currently missing about CZK 4.5 billion in social services. I think the situation is very serious because the providers are turning to me - not only me, I am also a Member and regional representative, I have the data from the Moravian-Silesian Region, i.e. not only from the Moravian-Silesian Region, but from there, our Mr. Governor, who is also a Member, has provided it to me - and they show that providers are essentially able to survive in quotation marks, they are able to finance wages and salaries around July, some say until August, some say by September. This means that in a very short time they will be without money and without paying their employees' wages. Personally, I have mentioned this here once before, I cannot imagine that the state in its organizations, which it establishes, or directly at ministries and so on, would not have planned resources for a specific year for civil servants' salaries until the end of the year. Unfortunately, in social services this is the case, and the situation is really very, very rusty. I'll tell you another thing about that. Basically, we already have a relatively large number of seniors who come in the context of the refugee crisis from Ukraine, who are users of social services, and those social housing services did not receive any contribution from the Ministry until today. There is talk that a grant title is to be written, but no title has yet been written, and basically the payment of these services is paid by the founders, which is also probably not ideal in terms of their economy and the sustainability of their functioning. I'm on my oral questioning, which I said 28 here. 4., he received an answer from the Minister on the same matter, i.e. on the financing of social services, from the Minister, which I consider to be very vague, and I admit that I am quite constipated by the answer, because it is about one half of the A4 format and there is possibly one sentence relevant. I will read it: "Within the scope of my department, I will seek to negotiate the most favourable allocation intended to promote the provision of social services. " That's an excellent formulation, but very, very vague and very vague. [[15.20 hours]] And this, by the way, is also why I would like this item to be included in today's meeting to learn how specifically and when this situation will be addressed because it is, according to the ANO movement, unsustainable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u17	Thank you. Let me just ask you - this is about funding social services and is this the number of the point, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u18	Let's put it as item number 3 of today's meeting, we can propose, and it's called Social Services Financing from Chapter 313 in 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u19	Item number three today, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u20	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u21	Mr Patrik Nacher is the next one to be logged in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u22	[[Notes from the diaper.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I see it's a big success. I haven't even said anything yet. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the Parliamentary Telenovela, which concerns the amendment to the Trade Act, it is press 41, paragraph 56. I've been trying to get this place on the program for the seventh time. I've always told you individual things, individual arguments, when I introduced that point. Again, this matter concerns regulation or definition of rules for short-term accommodation. This concerns Prague in particular, which I understand, but we Prague MEPs cannot deal with this any other way than by amending the law. One day the law will change, then you won't see us in this particular matter again. However, by constantly delaying it, it has already been here for the last term, now it is here again, extending the marasmus, which is now in the center of the capital city of Prague. Tourists are starting to return, tourists with short-term accommodation are coming back to the apartments again. Once again, it is basically without rules, it bothers the owners of the apartments who actually live there, and even though I present here a proposal that came from the Representation of the City of Prague, where the mayor is Zdeněk Hřib behind the Pirate Party and in the coalition there are TOP 09, STAN, Jenda Čižinský and KDU-ČSL, so despite everything here I repeatedly come across the fact that you do not want to negotiate because we have already opened it and interrupted it. You will now pretend to be dealing with this before the municipal elections, I will pretend from today that I am trying to convince you here, because it is obviously in vain, but I will present it here all the time, because I dare to say that it will take fifteen minutes to read here at first, no longer, then it will go to the committees and at second reading, if anybody has a problem with it - and I was talking about it on several round tables with the rapporteur Vojta Munzar - so if there is a problem there, it is possible to read the amendments. Otherwise, it's really, don't be mad at me, unnecessary delay. It is waiting for what comes from the Ministry of Regional Development, where the same officials, the same legislators, are doing it, who have already prepared this proposal, so I really don't know what is waiting for. I also told you here during the last performance of this point that it concerns not only Prague, but mostly all the major metropolises that tourists visit. When I see my colleague Jakub Michálek over there, I have to say fair and square that some material at the Ministry of Regional Development has already been created, he has sent it to me and is heading in the right direction. However, if we, as Members, do not signal here - and you are on those signals - then if we do not send a signal here that we really want to deal with this, I am afraid that it will only remain with a purpose. And I told you here and in the show that it's ideal to deal with it when the center of Prague is more or less empty, when the tourists aren't here, that was the time of covid. Now it's coming back, which means we've missed the perfect time here, but I still think there's a point in discussing it here. Unfortunately, this summer season isn't going to last, so the people who suffer from it in the city center are unlucky. So I would like to place this print 41, point 56 - and I will put different variants - today at 18.30 on a fixed time, the second option at 18.45, because I dare say that we will actually make it in fifteen minutes, the third option on Friday as the first point. I think this is really about goodwill, this isn't about time, because this isn't exactly a standard where I think it's going to be delayed. Then it turns out to be a vote, and I'm gonna lose honestly. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So let me just repeat - first, today 18.30 firmly, second, today 1845 firmly, and the third option on Friday as the first point. Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Robert králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u24	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I, too, have taken the liberty of coming to the mill with my little bit, and I have traditionally come to ask you to pre-schedule item number 26, House press 131, it is an amendment to the Cyber Security Act. As I have already justified several times, this is a European directive, when our SAO should certify the information systems of the state administration. It is a novel that should have already been implemented, and I think there is political agreement on it. Again, it would take us about ten minutes and it would be appropriate to approve it. I'd like to give it to Director Řehek to say goodbye before he goes to the General Staff to say goodbye to him by the approval of this amendment. So I would like to ask the presidents of coalition MPs to consider this matter concerning the current government. It's the remains of the previous government, but it's nothing conflicting, and it's the thing we need, and I'm saying it's for ten minutes. I think it would be such a nice gift for the departure of Director Řehka. I took the liberty of loading three alternatives. The first is the first point today, the second alternative is the first point tomorrow and the third alternative is Thursday at 11 o'clock. It is for ten minutes, it is really only the implementation of the European directive. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, i.e. the first point today, the second version of the first point tomorrow and the third variant of Thursday at 11 o'clock. Item number 26, 131. Thank you. And the next one who's logged in is Mr. Aleš Juchelka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u26	Thank you so much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only going very briefly, but with a more serious wish and a request for your support. This is Parliament's press 231, which is an amendment to the law, which should increase the contribution to mobility from 550 to 2 000 crowns. It's very important. It has been promised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or by the Minister, for several weeks that a package for disabled people will be prepared. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that last week too, this package was dumped for this week. Perhaps something will arise, however, it is very important that we contribute here at this unprecedented time when fuel increases, just those who can't move or their branches can't move, have a ZTP or ZTP/P card so that they can get to the staff or... I'm just gonna ask if... [[Noise in the hall, turning to the chair.]] I'm so sorry, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u27	Yes, thank you. Thank you for your peace. You've arranged your own order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u28	Yes, I have weight. So I would ask very much of this House, because this contribution was last increased from CZK 400 to 550 in 2018, and at this time we propose a contribution to mobility to CZK 2 000. It is really a matter of ten, fifteen minutes, when we can do it simply by first reading, because I think there will be a consensus across the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can support all those who, as I say, go to the staff, like with their branches or their loved ones, to different nursing homes or doctors, to schools and so on. I propose this press, which is under number 231, to include also in three different variants, as a quickie, as the first point of this meeting. Then I ask you, the second option is at 17 o'clock, as a fixed point at 17 o'clock today, or then Friday at 10 o'clock in the morning. Thank you so much for this and for all the disabled we can help with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to oblige you, unfortunately this press has not yet reached its deadline. It was submitted 3. 6th and the government has a month to assess it, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u30	Never mind, I'm sure the government will agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u31	So you've been practicing it, and the next time it's gonna be as smooth as it's gonna be when this press meets the terms of the hearing. I'm asking if anyone else is applying? Please, Chairman Excellent, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Government, Colleagues, I would like to propose, on behalf of the five Presidents of the Members' Clubs, one more adjustment to the programme this week, namely paragraph 74, House Press 165 - Senate Bill on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws related to the inclusion as the first point by block from the grémia of the points recorded in the block of first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-000-000.u33	Yeah, I'm just gonna record, uh, the first point on the block from the grémia of the first reading, okay, thank you. Anyone else checking in? It's not like that. We would therefore now proceed to the vote. I'm gonna pull you all out before we vote, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. And now we will vote on the proposals that have come from the Gremium. If no one has anything against it, we would vote with one vote. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. We'll wait for the numbers to settle. The number of applicants seems to have stabilized. Let me just say that we're going to vote on the proposals that came from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 68, registered 163, for 163, against no one. The proposal from the Gremium was therefore accepted. And now we will continue with the next vote, including the draft amendments to the agenda of the meeting. The first is the proposal made by President Okamura. It proposes a new point, which is: Petr Fiala's government does not address price increases and harms our citizens. The President proposes it as the first item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 69, registered by 168 Members and Members, for 79, against 84. The motion was denied. Furthermore, there is the proposal once again by President Okamura. It proposes a new point which reads: The ban on petrol and diesel will be overwhelmingly damaging to the economy of the Czech Republic and our citizens. He's suggesting it as a second point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 170 Members and Members signed in for 78, versus 63. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček, who proposes to include item 69 as the first item today, House Press 153, which is the issue of the Act on Supported Energy Resources. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 170 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 81, against 83. The motion was denied. We will now vote again on the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček. This is point 70, House Press 154, the Act on the Conditions for Trading in Emission Allowances, and proposes to include it as the second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 171 Members and Members signed up, for 80, against 83. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal again by Vice-President Havlíček, who proposes to include a new point which reads: Information on the sale of real estate and state-owned companies. He's proposing to include him as the third point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 171 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 81, versus 84. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal by President Schillerová. It suggests that item 71, House press 158, which is the issue of the VAT Act, proposes to include it as the first item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 81, versus 85. The motion was denied. [[15.40 hours]] And now we will vote on Mr Hendrych's proposal, which proposes a new point, which is the financing of social services 2022. He's proposing it as a third point for today's meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 81, against 77. The motion was denied. I will go back to President Schillerová's vote and her proposal. You had two options there, so I suggest we get back to that and we vote that your proposal, which concerns paragraph 71 of House Press 158, is the issue of the VAT Act that you propose to be included as the first and second points on Friday. Isn't that right? [[President Schiller agrees.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 80, against 84. The motion was denied. We will now continue with another proposal, which I proposed by Mr Nacher. He proposes that paragraph 56, House press 41, the Trade Business Act, be included today firmly in 18.30 as the first option on which we will now vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 81, against 32. The motion was denied. Now we're going to vote the second option, and that's putting it on tight today at 18.45. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 171 Members and Members, in favour of 80, against 25. The motion was denied. And the last option is the inclusion of point 56, House press 41, for Friday as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 171 Members and Members, in favour of 80, against 26. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Králíček's proposal, which proposes to include item 26, House press 131, Cyber Security Act, in three variants. We will now vote on the first option, proposing to include this House press as the first item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 65, against 77. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the second option, and that is the inclusion of this point as the first point tomorrow. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 61. The motion was denied. And now we're going to vote on the third option, and that's putting this point on Thursday at 11 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 171 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 64, versus 64, respectively. The motion was denied. And the last proposal is the proposal by President Excellent, who proposes to include item 74, House press 165, Senate bill on the residence of foreigners, as the first point by block from the grémium of the first reading. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Yes, thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 86, against 76. The motion was accepted. So we have now dealt with all the proposals to change the programme and we will now discuss the government's one-off child contribution law, the House Press 242. Before discussing precisely this government bill on one-off child allowance, Parliament's Press 242, shortened negotiations, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. If no one applies to the debate, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution, before I call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the government bill on a one-off contribution to a child, the Parliamentary Press 242, in a short hearing." We will now vote on the motion for this resolution. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 171 Members and Members voted in favour of 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have therefore approved the motion for a resolution. [[15.50 hours]] I'm opening now.
