ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws /house print 254/ - second reading The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura will present the draft bill on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm. Minister, please take the floor if you are interested. The Minister is interested, and I would like to see my colleagues first and foremost in the right part of the hall move their debates into the lobby... gentlemen!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u2	Well, I'll try to speak up. [[- Yes, thank you.]] I hope those who speak now find out that they speak from the rhetoric, that they will allow you all to hear my words well. We are at the beginning of the second reading, we can call it the tax package, as was usual in the parliamentary jargon, even though it is formally called the bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, but also the Income Tax Act is amended, as amended, and some other laws. The main reason for submitting this bill is the fulfilment of the government's programming declaration, in which we will find at least the following sentences and the following commitments: "We will increase the VAT registration limit to CZK 2 million, on the same line will shift the possibility of using flat-rate tax. Secondly, we will parametrically adjust the control reports and, thirdly, reduce the bureaucratic burden on the administration of taxes and charges." There is a demand for the rapporteur, so I will ask the Vice-President to meet this demand in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u3	At second reading, the Minister will first read his speech or give his speech, and then we will call on the rapporteur to read the motion for a resolution, and we will change the rapporteur to do so. So I just point out in advance that there will be a change in the rapporteur, because the original rapporteur is excused, so this is a custom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u4	For health reasons, the original rapporteur is excused if my memory does not deceive me. So this matter is clarified, so the rapporteur will take up his duties at second reading, and then he will be asked after my introductory words to introduce you to the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, which discussed this proposal between the first and second readings. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The draft law contains amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Tax Code, the Tax Measures Act in the context of the conflict in Ukraine and other legislation the amendment of which is caused by changes to these tax laws. The effectiveness is set at 1 January 2023, with the exception of several provisions in the field of value added tax, which will take effect on the day following the date of publication of this Act, in order to simplify the transition to the new legislation. I will try the introductory words - because we will certainly have the opportunity to have a quite detailed debate, I will certainly answer them if they ask questions - so at this point I will sum up only the basic positive changes for taxpayers. It is not an automatic rule that a change in tax laws brings positive changes to taxpayers. The first one is, I've already announced, increasing the limit for mandatory VAT registration from CZK 1 to CZK 2 million. I must say that thanks to the efforts of both the past and the current government - I would like the opposition to note that I say this because of the efforts of the previous and current government - we have received an exception as the Czech Republic that we can apply this actually before what the European agreement is on, that is, from 1 January next year. [[14.40 hours]] Secondly, we respond - I would say - to legitimate comments, especially from smaller companies. We change the parameters for submitting a subsequent inspection report from 5 working days from the date of receipt of the request of the tax administrator to the payer's data box to 17 calendar days from the date of delivery. I think that this is help especially for honest ones who open messages in data boxes immediately and do not use the institute of delivery fiction. And especially in smaller companies, where there is either an external accountant or one or one accountant, sometimes those 5 calendar days have been causing problems, and even a reliable taxpayer sometimes had a problem how to solve it, if this or this accountant were currently on vacation or on sick leave, and there is one person there, so there is a very problem. The 17 calendar days are perfectly sufficient. It doesn't really change much, because when we add up the delivery fiction, we give it 5 working days, the delivery fiction is 10 days, 5 working days plus Saturday, Sunday, calendarly it's 17, but it creates a more friendly environment especially for those honest who could, for administrative reasons, make some mistake in submitting the inspection report. Similarly, the fines imposed by the law in the event of late filing or failure to submit a control report for traders, limited liability companies, where the natural person is the sole shareholder, and the payer - actually a quarterly payer - VAT, that is, once again, a reduction in fines especially to the smallest taxpayers. These are actually the basic changes in VAT. As far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, the biggest change is the change in the limit for the possibility of using flat-rate taxes, which, when the limit for the compulsory registration of VAT was 1 million, was the same limit for the possibility of using flat-rate taxes. If we are increasing the limit to 2 million in the VAT Act, I would say, logically, we are increasing the limit to 2 million here as well. We are introducing three bands here, and I know that this proposal inspires controversy or counterproposals. The reason is quite simple. The purpose of the flat-rate tax is not to reduce the tax burden, but to reduce the bureaucratic intensity, and if we should set an ambition for one single rate for businessmen where the flat-rate may be 80, 60 or 40 %, and at the same time those revenues were from 0 to 2 million, each of us will consider that it is very difficult to find something that would be adequate to those marginal situations. So if I take the marginal situation that someone has, for example, an expense flat rate of 80 percent and an income of 2 million... On the contrary, if anyone has income of about half a million, 600,000, spending flats of 80,000, they pay very low taxes even without a flat-rate tax institute. [[percentage?]] If we compare this with a taxpayer who, at 40% of the flat-rate, would have income of almost 2 million, it is actually impossible to set one value to correspond adequately to both of these - and I admit - marginal situations. So basically for those who will have an income of up to 1 million in the coming years as well as this year, nothing changes at all. For those classic businessmen, this means, as they are usually understood by the CFI, these are those who have 80% of the flat-rate spending, also nothing changes, the design in the whole band up to 2 million sets the same levy. But for that, 60% and 40% - we have two more bands - in which case, 60% of the flat-rate expenditure is over 60%, over 1.5 million, I'm sorry, and for that 40% of the flat-rate expenditure is over 1 million, and then over 1.5 million, it's the third zone. But I respect that amendments will be tabled in this area. It is a legitimate debate and we will decide on the resulting form of flat-rate tax in the final third reading. I think, at least I haven't noticed from the open debate that anyone would question the very principle that the flat-rate tax limit will be raised to $2 million, and that is the key information. There is a legitimate debate in the Chamber of Deputies about how we set the parameters. I tried to explain the reasons why the government, first the Ministry of Finance, and then the government as a whole led to the proposal of the three bands. Furthermore, we are dealing with a long-term issue that I believe was also addressed in the previous parliamentary term and probably for time reasons has not reached a valid, effective law, this is the exemption of income in the form of a free acquisition of co-ownership in immovable property from the municipality, if this municipality obtained a subsidy from the State budget between 1995 - you can hear well - 1995 - 2007. I think this is a helpful step towards many taxpayers who, I would say, rightly, did not understand why they should pay another tax. Then they increase - like this, the important thing is to extend extraordinary depreciation. It is actually a matter that we have jointly approved in the last parliamentary term for two covido years - 2020 and 2021. It has worked, it is in favour of investment activities of companies, so we extend these extraordinary depreciations until the end of 2023. If there is a question of why not further, it is at a high level of negotiation, and soon it will go to the government, a new accounting law, which will newly define depreciation groups from 1 January 2024 and the length of write-off. So, with this proposal, if the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate approve it, we will resolve the period until the effectiveness of the new Accounting Act, where depreciation groups and depreciation periods will be set in another way. Furthermore, the amounts of annual income to which tax returns are not required shall be increased. In general, it is from CZK 15,000 to CZK 25,000 a year, and in the case of a taxpayer who otherwise has income from employment, the amount increases from CZK 6,000 to CZK 10,000. And then the thing that I think is also necessary - the exemption of remuneration for the performance of the duties of a member of the electoral committee. In fact, these people guarantee and contribute to the fact that we have fair elections, the rewards are not high and we find it administratively, but also in other ways unnecessary, that the rewards of being voluntarily responsible as a member of the electoral commission are taxed. Furthermore, the Act on Tax Measures in the context of the conflict in Ukraine, which we adopted together in the first half of this year, is being amended and we are specifying some things. First of all, we remove the obligation to file a tax return if it would only be due to the application of deduction to the gift of the representative office of Ukraine. You know that Ukraine's representative office has organized a collection to help Ukraine, in which the public has been involved in an astonishing way, and I think it is right that if that were the only reason why a particular citizen should file a tax return, it is good to get rid of that obligation. Another proposal that responds to the fact that we are providing solidarity to those households who have voluntarily decided to stay in their home or apartment of Ukrainian refugees, so we are clearly saying that the contribution to the solidarity household provided for this accommodation will not count on the income of the spouse and the taxpayers - or the wife - and therefore the taxpayers will not lose a discount on the husband or wife. Once again, I think that someone doing good will will accommodate Ukrainian refugees in their household, and for that he gets some part of the prescribed law, there is no reason for him to lose his discount on his husband or wife. Then there is an amendment to the tax rules, which means that the obligation to submit tax returns and other forms of tax administration is reduced electronically so that they do not newly concern natural persons who are not in business, even if they have an open data box, so we leave the choice. I would recommend it to everyone to use the possibility of electronic submission, but it will not be an obligation when it comes to persons who are not engaged, while they are subject to tax, to tax the income they have from areas other than business, such as rentals and similar things. [[14.50 hours]] I think it is right that, at this point in the introductory words, I should mention the amendment that I made to the system last week, which concerns windfall tax. I'll just say it wasn't part of the original bill, I think we all know that, but for the record, let's make it clear. The reason is simple. When we were preparing the tax package, at that time there were only reflections on the introduction of tax, windfall tax in English, taxes on extraordinary profits, war taxes... of course, there was quite a lot of these terms, we call it the Czech tax on unexpected profits. We were waiting for a European solution, but it came from a different area than just tax. We must say that, in fact, the national states, and I think it concerns all the countries of the European Union, compensate for various ways of high energy prices for both households and entrepreneurs. Generally, the hardest thing is to come up with a way to help big companies. The others have succeeded in the past weeks, we are still working on solving large companies. If we come to such a solution, it will not be the form of a change in tax laws. The Member States shall hold two possible instruments. Both are referred to as a windfall tax in an open debate, so I will distinguish them with Czech terminology so that the terms do not get confused. The first instrument, which is not tax, is that at national level Member States can set a maximum price for producers and everything above the maximum price of producers are to be paid to the State budget to compensate for high energy prices. We all know that the price is set at 180 euros per megawatt hour. At this point, expert negotiations are being finalized. At this point, we are inclined to set this levy differently according to the various sources that have power plants. This means, in various ways, this price - or the price ceiling - will be set for the levy, for the electricity produced from the core, other for the production of wind power plants, photovoltaic power plants, for brown coal there will be two types, that is, it will be the pelvic brown coal power plants and the others, for the production of biomass and so on. And the second instrument that we have in this proposal is actually a tax on unexpected profits that can be characterised as a complement to corporate tax. I'd like this debate not to mix it up. The first measure I mentioned does not have the character of a tax because it would have to be approved by ECOFIN - unanimity, because unanimity applies in the tax area, it has the character of a compulsory levy. This will enable the regulation to do so from 1 December this year and the Government's resolution aims to do so from 1 December this year. 12. 2022 these contributions have been established, but it will certainly require an amendment to the Energy Act and then a government regulation. I can say that we are working intensively on this in cooperation with all relevant electricity producers in the Czech Republic. The levy, the limit, the levy we want to determine cost plus, Czech cost plus reasonable margin. We do not want to put any company, any producer, into loss by this measure, because there would still be nothing left for the State to compensate for the loss caused by the state authorities' regulation. With windfall tax - we're with the tax on unexpected profits, there are several options for the tax add-on. In general, it is offered as the first sectoral tax. As a government, we have rejected this as a principle of solution, so we are actually adapting all the fields covered by the European regulation. It is the mining sector, it concerns coal, oil, natural gas and the production of petroleum and coke oven products, if the revenues from these activities in 2021 exceeded more than 25 per cent of the revenues of specific companies. Second, it is important to say that the electricity and gas production and trading entities and the wholesale of liquid and gaseous fuels, provided that the entity or group of which it is part, had at least 2 billion revenue from these activities, not from all the activities of the group, but only from these activities, in 2021. That's not a profit to explain. Thirdly, and that is no longer subject to European legislation, that is, as we say honestly, that is a national solution, it concerns banks. If annual net interest income was at least CZK 6 billion in 2021, in other words, this would concern large banks. There are six of them if my memory doesn't deceive me. For the smaller ones and those slightly larger than the smaller ones, which are somehow formally classified as medium, we do not propose this taxation because of the stability of the banking sector. When you look at the net interest income of the largest banks, you see that it's a high number in the long run, and those profits happen because of high inflation and because of the high two-week repossession, which at this point is 7 percent. My colleagues at the Ministry of Finance have done preliminary research on the taxation of banks in Europe and the European Union. There we pass the corporate rate, which is really lower in our country than in the Western Member States in particular, so almost all euro area members, not the European Union, approach or approach a form of banking tax. There were different methods, but almost all members. We must say that the vast majority of this year was the basic interest rate at zero, and in recent weeks the European Central Bank has increased its basic interest rate to 1.25 percentage points. If we model, if the underlying interest rate were in the Czech Republic at this time, we certainly do not propose a tax on unexpected profits in the banking sector. Yesterday from public sources, I think we've read it to many of us - I don't know if it was a report or a conversation - I read about the assumed loss of the CNB in 2022. The information that was published yesterday shows that the CNB in its high loss - which is no disaster to bring it right - is due to the fact that on interest - because today the 7% rate, but in some months it was lower - the CNB will pay CZK 180 billion to commercial banks this year. This is where the unexpected profit arises, because the 180 billion crowns do not arise as a result of better services than its competitors, increasing the number of customers and so on. Of course, banks have interest costs, which is why we work with the concept of net interest income, which, by the way, is a mandatory part of the bank's annual reports, and each of us can study it as it has been in recent years. So these are the subjects that should be involved. The tax base - here we are based on the European regulation, that is, to calculate the average profit for 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, it will increase by 20 per cent and only the amount that will be higher than the 120 per cent of the average profit for the last four years will be the basis for the tax on extraordinary profits. We propose a rate of 60 per cent and a period of application from 2023 to 2025. I will explain immediately how we will work with 2022 under this amendment. For 2022, the companies will calculate the tax, file a tax return, but they will not pay the tax for 2022. It is only the basis for advances, as is normal - for corporate taxes, advances are paid according to the tax liability paid in the last tax period. [[15.00 hours]] When I was talking about the first instrument, that is, the levy that was due from the electricity production prices that was due from 1 December this year, this levy will be a tax deductible cost for a particular electricity producer, in other words, that levy will reduce its profit. These are continuous containers: the higher the levy, the lower the profit, the lower the base for windfall tax, the lower the tax liability itself. Our conservative estimate by the Ministry of Finance that by involving these two instruments, one non-tax and one tax in the sense of advances, that is, we are talking about the revenue of the state budget, and the classical income of the state budget for example this year sees this development of corporate tax - that is not only in March or June when tax returns are filed. Now I'm passing on companies that have a different accounting year than 1. 1. and 31. 12th, but so is the increase in income from this tax in September and December, when these companies pay an advance on this tax under the last known tax obligation. I suppose I have described at least the basic parameters of both the draft law approved by the government and its amendment. I guess I said that even for the other activities there is an entry limit, which means, for those, I said that they produce electricity, it's the parameter of 2 billion crowns of sales in 2021 from these activities in question. For others, the small ones, there is a limit of 50 million, so we do not want to tax domestic photovoltaic power plants and so on, therefore the limit is quite generous, 50 million crowns. As far as efficiency is concerned, I think I have answered quite clearly. The Act is to be effective from 1 February 2023, including this amendment. But with that windfall tax, I assume that in 2023, and so is the draft state budget, which we will start discussing tomorrow in plenary, because this discussion has already begun in the Committee on Budgets, the sum of CZK 100 billion is expected. But what is important and what I want to say about this amendment: it is really an extraordinary step and an extraordinary revenue, and with full seriousness I say that the government will use this money according to the approved budget, of course, but only for extraordinary expenses. This tax does not have and must not serve to reduce, for example, the structural deficit, which is what other measures are for. I say this quite frankly, to make it very clear that extraordinary revenues will only be used for extraordinary expenses. In the light of the knowledge we have in September and October of this year, we estimate the need to compensate for CZK 100 billion for the price ceiling. That's not the only cost that serves... For example, the ceiling - in addition to the specific amount, there is also the zeroing of payments for renewable resources. This is also an extraordinary expenditure and an extraordinary measure, which will apply 16 months from 1 September this year until the end of 2023. The debt report on this amendment also contains a detailed estimate of the revenue of this tax in the years 2023, 2024 and 2025. Thank you for your attention. At this point, it was the whole opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 254/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets take the floor. It was originally Mr Vojtěch Munzar, who is duly excused for all health reasons. He will therefore be represented by Mr Havránek and this is not voted on because we are at second reading. I therefore ask the rapporteur to inform us about the committee's discussion of the proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Beautiful day, colleagues, colleagues. I will take the liberty of representing a sick colleague, Vojtěch Munzar, whom I wish to heal soon. The Committee on Budgets discussed this draft law at its meeting on 1 September this year. Coincidentally, I also represented a colleague of Vojtěch Munzar. As for the first discussion that took place on this bill, I think that in particular it was in the area of setting the flat-rate tax parameters. Mrs Schillerová then announced that she would put forward some amendments, two of which are in the system. At this point in time, we will find a total of 12 amendments in the system. As regards what the Committee adopted in its resolution, it is one amendment from the group of Members represented by Mr Vojtěch Munzar as the first of the petitioners, and it is this amendment that concerns the limits for the submission of income tax returns. By means of this proposal, it is proposed to increase the minimum amount of taxable income of the taxpayer's income tax for the creation of an obligation to submit a tax return pursuant to § 38g para. 1 of the Income Tax Act from the current 15 000, respectively in the proposal contained 25 000, to CZK 50,000. The similar amendments proposed in the other provisions concerned are the result of their link with this amount. That was therefore the most important point in the 120th resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Furthermore, I, or Mr Munzar as rapporteur, was empowered to present the resolution of our committee in this way. Colleagues, my colleagues, I look forward to the following discussion and thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. And the Minister still wants, with priority rights...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u8	[[He's coming in.]] I'm so sorry, I'm just gonna add a few numbers. When I said the bill was in favour of taxpayers, let me quantify the Ministry of Finance estimates. The increase in the annual limit from 1 to 2 million is an impact estimate, i.e. a reduction in the revenue of the state of CZK 10 billion, of which 6,4 billion at state budget level, 2.6 billion at municipal level and 1 billion at regional level, so that is plus 10 billion in favour of taxpayers. For parametric VAT changes, we assume a positive impact for taxpayers, which is negative for the state budget minus CZK 180 million. For income tax, raising the flat-rate tax limit does not do as much as I sometimes read in an open debate. The estimate is CZK 600 million for public budgets, of which CZK 500 million at state budget level and CZK 100 million at municipal level, no impact on regional budgets, and CZK 4,1 billion at state budget level, 2.2 billion at municipal and regional budgets, but the negative impact for the state budget is CZK 9 billion in 2023, of which CZK 5,8 billion at state budget level and CZK 3.2 billion at local budgets in 2024. When we sum up these several figures, we find that in favour of tax entities, if the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate approve it, it will be in the next year plus about 17 billion and in 2024 plus 20 billion, so in those two years 37 billion in favour of taxpayers, to the detriment of the state budget of about two thirds and one third at the level of budgets of municipalities, cities and regions. I apologize for adding that introductory word, but I wanted it to be heard on the record, the report on the effects of these positive measures on taxpayers in public budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u9	Thank you, Minister, and I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr Havlíček was originally the first Vice-President, but she prefers President Alena Schillerová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I thank my colleague for allowing me to appear first. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, today's debate will be relatively unusual. On the one hand, we have a tax package that largely follows up and is the work of the previous cabinet - our Cabinet of Andrej Babiš - and in which we will have a standard classic political debate here, where the current government five-wheelers are actually following up on the steps of our government, for which I am, of course, glad, but unfortunately there are some reservations that I spoke about during the first reading and I will repeat them here, although to a large extent the tax package will have and has our support. In addition to this politically relatively common discussion, we will also discuss the parliamentary proposal of the Minister of Finance as a Member, in this case Zbyněk Stanjura, in which I have an unprecedented input into the budget process, when, on the one hand - I would like to summarize it - with the Member's proposal, he wants to create a completely new category of tax, a Member's proposal, for another, he wants to create a tax collection at a height of about 150 billion - adding the year 2023, 2024, 2025, and, on the other hand, thirdly, with these billions he is already counting on the draft state budget for 2023, which is an unprecedented negotiation for me, because the management of the state budget is based - including this of course there are other things, we will discuss in detail in particular tomorrow's first reading - but for me it is based on an imaginary CZK 150 billion on the income side. On the 21st of October, there was a first-mentioned version of the extraordinary profit tax, and today, 25th of October, we are at its second reading. Any space for discussion was completely decimated. That's what we need to talk about here. But I'll start with the first part of the bill that we were supposed to be dealing with here today. It is a proposal that the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of a project launched by our government, the government of Andrej Babiš, wants to increase the range of businessmen who can use the so-called flat-rate tax. There are more of these things in the tax package, but this is probably the most important one for me. These traders - and that is why we once introduced a flat-rate tax in our government - do not have to deal with tax returns, do not have to deal with any other social statements, in the field of health insurance. So the flat-rate tax has been introduced by our government, and especially by the Ministry of Finance under my leadership, as a solution for those who do not want to drown in accounting and accounting documents who do not want to spend considerable funds on tax advisors or accounting advisors and prefer to do what they really can, namely their profession, a tool that is simple, transparent, and especially functional. One payment solved income tax obligations, social, health insurance. Tens of thousands of tradesmen were spared thanks to our government coalition - but I remind you that at the time it had broad support even in the opposition - funds, but above all, its time. Neither the tax return nor the report shall be filed under the flat-rate tax scheme. It doesn't come, it's not logical for tax control to come - just businessmen and self-employed people do what they do best, let it be the mechanic who fixes the cars, let it be the seamstress who adjusts the clothes, let it be the farmer who is supposed to care for his field. They are to focus mainly on their business and therefore individual entities are engaged in activities in which they have a comparative advantage and this increases the production of the entire national economy. Of course, this behavior is also beneficial for the state. It's a kind of effective investigation that certainly makes sense. With these entrepreneurs, there is nothing to control if they do not keep accounting, do not file a confession, so I see no reason to control, and saves their capacity and the state, of course, which does not need to increase the bureaucratic apparatus. That was the way we wanted to go, and of course the journey had several phases, and now we're in that phase of the second. Fortunately, I am glad that this project is being continued, I have already said this at the outset, and I really appreciate this. The basis for changing the flat-rate tax and shifting its limit was - and I presented this from the outset when I presented this project for approval - that our government was heading to the limit of CZK 2 million, both for flat-rate tax and for compulsory VAT. However, this was not possible during the period when we presented a flat-rate tax because of the then valid European VAT Directive. We fought about it several times here with the opposition. That is why, as secretary of finance in the government of Andrej Babiš, I have long advocated that we achieve a shift to 2 million mandatory payers so that Member States can decide, at their discretion, to increase... [[Relax; Mr Michalek speaks loudly at the rapporteur's table.]] ... about increasing the turnover limit for the creation of the payer's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u11	Sorry to interrupt, Madam President, Prime Minister Michálek... Thank you.)
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u12	...just up to the limit of $2 million. And that succeeded under our government, and I was glad. The adjustment was approved, however, with effect from 1 January 2025, and this increase in the VAT registration limit is, of course, linked to an increase in the flat-rate tax limit. Those were connected vessels, from the beginning we planned it this way. At the end of the mandate of our government, as the then Minister of Finance, I asked the European Commission for an exception for the Czech Republic so that it would not have to wait for this deadline. This has succeeded and I am glad that the Minister followed up on these steps, the Ministry of Finance, so that he could smoothly continue this effort and introduce this amendment, which increases the VAT limit to 2 million. It is something that the business public has been calling for for years and, of course, also to increase the flat-rate tax limit, which is up to 1 million revenue at the moment, and of course we wanted it to be up to 2 million. Why we did this is clear: if VAT payers, the so-called taxable VAT payers, today from a million turnover, have to keep certain compulsory records, it is illogical for us to raise a flat-rate tax to 2 million when a mandatory VAT payer must be from a million to be a mandatory VAT payer with compulsory records. That is why it was important to tie these two amendments together. That happened, but for me - I've already criticized it here at first reading - is setting up for a flat-rate tax for me senselessly system of three belts. Three bands, which are actually not just three, but there are many more, respectively, and there are more criteria. Which zone you will fall into, will not be determined or should not be determined according to the proposal of the Ministry of Finance under the direction of Zbyněk Stanjura, is not only determined by income but also according to the amount of the expenditure flat rate. Of course, it doesn't always apply. For example, a plumber who can apply an expense flat rate of 80 per cent will also include the income of CZK 2 million in the first band and will therefore pay CZK 6,500 a month. On the other hand, for example, the accountant will fall into the second zone at the same income and will pay 16,000 a month, so almost CZK 10,000 more, because she is entitled to a different flat-rate. Finally, the doctor - I chose the three different professions because of spending flats - again with an identical income of 2 million will pay the highest rate, or 26,000 crowns a month, because he can apply a flat-rate of 40 percent. [[15.20 hours]] The system's complicated for me. In the first band, the CFI with revenues up to CZK 1 million per year, regardless of the type of activity, is also the CFI with revenues of CZK 1.5 million per year, if 80% or 60% of them can be used as a lump sum. Similarly, there are up to 2 million revenues in the first margin of the CFI, if 80% of the expenditure flat rate can be applied to at least 75 percent of them. In the second band there are CFIs with annual revenues up to CZK 1.5 million regardless of the type of individual activity and then the CFI with income up to CZK 2 million, if at least 75 percent of them can be applied 80% or 60% flat-rate. Third zone... [[He's turning from the counter.]] Forty. The third flat-rate tax band will then be for the CFI with annual revenues up to 2 million regardless of the type of activity. I already said at first reading that orientation would not be easy, and I think that a whole number of colleagues, regardless of whether they are concerned or whether they are moving in this material or not, maybe they didn't understand me without me wanting to underestimate them in any way, anyone. And if you don't, then you're going to have to pay extra - those involved - only a few thousand, I'm just putting in quotes, for tax advisors. So I don't consider this to be a simplification. And because the greatest advantage of this system - and I have popular feedback from people who have taken advantage of the flat-rate tax that it really is simplification - is its simplicity. So that is why I have prepared, as I have announced, two amendments to which I will then apply in a detailed debate: the first concerns the repayment of insurance premiums. This amendment relates to the introduction of three flat-rate zones in which flat-rate advances are paid, income tax and public insurance at different levels. The draft law envisages that at the beginning of the tax period the taxpayer will apply to a certain flat-rate area and then the flat-rate amount due to the group will be paid. At this point, the proposal is set up for entrepreneurs so that if its income in the tax period corresponds to the chosen zone, then the advance payments paid are met by its liability to income tax and public insurance. If its income is higher in the tax period than it is set for the chosen zone, the tax and public insurance must be paid to the level of the higher band. However, if an entrepreneur finds that his income in the relevant period corresponds to a lower band, he shall be reimbursed the part of the tax paid by way of advances which exceeds the tax under that lower band. However, according to this government proposal, public insurance is not returned, so they will remain paid according to the chosen band, even if the taxpayer has reached income for the lower band. That is what my amendment responds to, according to which part of the public insurance policy over the amount corresponding to the lower band would be returned. I just want to say a footnote, without making excuses for anyone, that I have also consulted in expert circles in the area of tax advisors, so this has actually emerged, this need, also from this debate. As far as my second amendment, which I will again apply to in a detailed debate, concerns a reduction in the number of zones - what I have criticised since the first reading, because I consider those three bands to be a complication of the system, and I fear that this very attractive - for me so far attractive - institute will lose its attractiveness. I propose a reduction in the number of flat-rate zones. The reduction of the belt will be from three, proposed by the Ministry of Finance and Government, to two. In my proposal, the taxpayers who fall into the third zone of the flat-rate regime in the government bill will fall into the second zone. The set above for the second band should also remain the same. The amount of flat-rate advances, flat-rate taxes and flat-rate public insurance premiums proposed for the second zone shall be maintained. This parliamentary proposal should not be reflected in a significant way in the lower collection of tax revenue, because, of course, the number of taxpayers (with) is falling by each band, and for me it will effectively reduce the complexity and bureaucracy of the entire legislative proposal submitted. I consulted with my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance with your permission, so I'm drawing on their calculations. So much for a standard political debate on the tax package. And I thought, even a week ago, or maybe more than a week ago, speaking more accurately, that would have been all of it from my side, our side to the novel. However, in the end, what I did not expect was that we are debating today, and we also need to discuss the tax on extraordinary profits, which, as the Minister has now presented to us as a Member, adds to the tax package as an amendment. In my view, the decision not to discuss the tax on extraordinary profits as a separate law is completely unacceptable. I consider this absolutely unacceptable and, in my own way, cowardly, because I think that such an essential thing - and I do not yet assume what our position will be, we will be debating it, of course, as opposition in a very uncomfortable situation, when we basically have today's amendment laws on something that has been introduced in the system for a few days, from Friday, if I am not mistaken - and although I acknowledge that the Minister sent or delivered the first proposal to me more than a week ago, he has nevertheless admitted certain changes since then, despite the fact that, as I have already announced several times, and I am going to repeat it here, I do not know which is actually the case - if Mr Jakub Michálek, who has in his system a Member's proposal for an extraordinary profit tax with completely different parameters. And I stress that the parameters are political, and tax policy at this point should certainly be promoted uniformly by the government. I think there should have been at least a shortcut - I would have understood it - a commentary procedure. It was supposed to be given expert posts, it had a chance to influence this text, it had to be discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government, it should have gone through a short but regular legislative process, it should have gone to committees. The opposition should not only have today to make amendments to such a fundamental change. I note that tomorrow we will be discussing the state budget and this amendment - he finally said it here - counts on bringing 85 billion into the state budget in 2023. That's a completely unstandard and unprecedented breach. I've been asking experienced legislators if they remember it in 30 years -- they don't. They don't remember! [[15.30 hours]] Tomorrow we're going to debate the national budget for 2023 at first reading, so I'm just going to touch it very easily today, I'm not going to say what I'm going to say tomorrow. You've finally touched it, Minister, too, so I - I can't do it, it's connected, it can't be separated. Thank you. This revenue is already included in the budget for 2023. I've been criticizing it for a long time. I even found it -- maybe I'll use it today, maybe tomorrow, it doesn't matter -- I found out when you criticized me in 2019 -- I found a tape screen because you've reminded me several times -- criticized me for giving digital taxes, billions units, we both know that. That's what you even said in there that he would have dealt with the budget if it hadn't been for that income - I'll admit that you've acknowledged it there. So the budget wouldn't be able to cope with this if it didn't come up, and even though you told me on the Committee on Budgets that there is no such legislation, and I immediately responded there and I said that to assess the legality and legitimacy of the proposed procedure, it is necessary to come out, and I say that as a lawyer, and the lawyers present will certainly understand that it is necessary to come out of purpose. The Supreme Administrative Court also talks about this very often in its relatively constant caselaw, which follows the processing of the State Budget Act as a key law. Thus, the inclusion of tax on unexpected or exceptional profits in the corporate tax item on the revenue side of the state budget has no support in current legislation, and at this point represents a contradiction from the standardised and previously used process of preparing the state budget, as well as a contradiction with the legislation laying down budgetary rules, and we have all complied with these rules. And those who, and I remind you again, compare it to a digital tax because I hear it not only from you, I hear it from some of your... [[A note from the Minister of Finance.]] I don't know, I may have a feeling, somewhere in the Events, comments, but I'm not gonna touch your conscience, so it reminds me of your colleagues, so those who remind me don't understand the budget process. I don't want to suspect you of that, because - I remind you again - the digital tax was in the order of lower billions of crowns, and it couldn't, and you know it well as the Finance Minister, influence the outcome of the economy if it weren't there. And this conclusion, which I am saying here, and I will look at it in more detail tomorrow, is fully supported by the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. The Committee declares, and you have certainly read this - in the end it has also been declared in the budgetary committee's deliberations - that the tax on unexpected profits, but also from the introduction of a market income ceiling on electricity generation of a total amount of 100 billion, because you have correctly distinguished here between the national solution and the European one that the MIT is preparing, but it is already included in the state budget, as well as other things that we will say tomorrow - that it has no support in current legislation, which is contrary to the normal process of preparing the state budget. And again, we're not talking about units of billions. That is probably what I would have done at the turbulent time that I have experienced, and you, each of the other reasons, would have left this without any more fundamental discussion, but this is 100 billion, which is really, I repeat, contrary to the normal process of preparing the state budget. The Committee also notes that at that time it does not have sufficient information to assess the budget's above extraordinary revenue in terms of the likelihood of achieving it. Dear colleagues, this opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts has been approved unanimously by all the members of the Committee without exception, so it is clear that, at the moment when the planned revenues of the State budget are stated in the draft State Budget Act in a purely formal manner, without their estimation being based on real facts, it cannot be guaranteed that the approved state budget will be fulfilled by the competent authority, once again, by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. So once again, if it hadn't been filled with digital tax, then at some stage of the amendment, we'd already be taking out the income when I saw that we wouldn't make it here. If it had not been achieved in the area of digital taxation, which were units of billions, the state budget would not have felt it or would not have had a significant impact in the context of the implementation of the state budget. It would have a profound impact here. So there is no way for me to allow the revenue of the state budget to be planned on the basis of legislation, which not only was not approved at the time the draft State Budget Act was discussed, but there is no elementary consensus in the government coalition in this revenue item. So I hope that this will be explained somehow, the amendment. I do not know whether Mr Michálek is registered or not, I do not see it on the board, but I believe that somehow the Minister of Finance will explain this to us and tell us what the proposal is, because we know what the content is today, and the Minister has justified it here, his amendment, and we do not really know what the position of the entire government coalition is. So, on the basis of the above, I repeat that it is clear that the approval of the draft State Budget Act, which calculates with revenues that do not have support in the legislation in force, and I will discuss tomorrow the individual items, i.e. income for which it is not possible to qualify for the probability of achieving them, is a completely budgetaryly irresponsible procedure. And this approach contradicts the basic principles of the management of public finances, which are expressed in Law No. 23/2017 Coll., on the rules of budgetary responsibility, and therefore contradicts the meaning and purpose of this law, in other words, is illegal and illegitimate. Last but not least, the opinion of the National Budget Board, which stated on the draft budget for 2023 that good governance is inherently linked to a transparent budgetary process and a rational fiscal policy, is also in line with this opinion. The National Budget Board explicitly stated that - I quote: "Ignoring the basic rules and principles of budget formation will lead to a weakening of parliamentary control of public finances in the medium term, as well as the credibility of the Czech Republic in international markets." End of quote. Moreover, once again, the five-wheelers - I don't know if they agree - cannot even agree on the final form of the essential one presented and for me an illegal proposal. Again, in the system is Mr Michálek's amendment, which tabled its amendment only two and a half hours after the submission of the proposal by the Member, the Minister of Finance - but here as a Member - Zbyněk Stanjura, and this proposal is not based on minor modifications, it could happen that there is some minor discrepancy. There is essentially a difference in fundamental political points. The proposal counts - I would compare the two proposals - with a reduction in the limit that is relevant to the entity's tax or bank's. I'll compare it. Proposal - I will say to Members, Minister, I apologise - Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proposal counts on 6 billion net interest income from banks, Mr Michálek's proposal with 2 billion. There's no small difference! This is a fundamental difference! Furthermore, Mr Michálek calls for a reduction in the amount of the premium tax, actually the premium above the corporate tax, at 40 per cent, whereas the Minister of Finance in the role of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has 60 per cent in his proposal. And also on such a basic parameter as the rate, there is a contradiction within the government camp. And as absurd, absurd, I see Mr Michálek's comments on the effectiveness of this extraordinary taxation. While the Minister of Finance talks about the period 2023 to 2025, Mr Michálek has, in his proposal, a period of 2022 to 2024, or backward retroactivity. So how does the government coalition intend to do it? Total chaos, which is connected from the beginning with this proposal! [[15.40 hours]] A moment ago he wrote to me - I think I can say it here that it is nothing - the chairman of the pirate club Michálek wrote to me that he sent me an e-mail, which he had already done, the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government. I'll read it as soon as I finish my speech. So apparently, he sent it to me a while ago, not so long ago, the disproportion is still unclear - even that no coalition club has had a press conference today, speaks for itself. I was talking about it, and I was trying to ask a representative of a five-wheeler, when they had already rejected my point to clarify the situation here, which meant a 31-billion-dollar stock price reduction, so I thought he'd at least get off, that the Prime Minister here would say something about it, because basically the opinions that I overheard, that maybe it's not a problem, that the shares are back to their value - but that's how someone had to buy. Maybe the Securities Commission should take a look at it, maybe somebody should be interested in it, this is not possible. When someone has such a huge government responsibility, when someone is such a high-ranking constitutional agent, they can't slap - forgive me for the expression, it's a folk term, not a rude one - what they like, they just can't. And we're talking about people like the Prime Minister, we're talking about people like the Vice-President of the House, the chairman of the TOP 09 - that's not possible. And if at least this is over, but this goes on, Jakub Michálek's amendment is clear evidence of this. The fact that the representatives of coalition clubs did not find the courage to speak at a press conference today, and there they didn't find a clear signal - I will use your favorite word - a clear signal that you do not have an agreement on such essential things to influence the revenue of the state budget to help people and businesses. You didn't find the courage at the press conference or at my call here at the House of Deputies. And that in the end, journalists were labeled as those responsible for the chaos, and I was commenting on that, and at this point, I'm not going to repeat it again. I am waiting for an expression all the time, waiting for an opinion on the amendments. Of course, if there were a proper commentary procedure, if there were a so-called RIA, which must be the impact on each tax and economic law on the economy for any such introduction, if there were model examples, if there were at least some calculations, we would know how institutions like the Czech National Bank actually view it, such as banking associations. Is it certain that people won't pay it in the end in increased fees? Is it certain that this will not have an impact, a negative impact on credit increases or their partial availability? Is that a sure thing? I don't know, I don't know. And I'm saying again and again and I have to ask: If the five-calice government wants to use this tool and decide to use this tool, I am repeatedly reminding - and I am sure that my honourable colleague Karel Havlíček will also follow me - that our movement has long spoken of a more efficient, cheaper instrument. As early as February 2022, we were talking about ceilinging. We were talking about not letting these energy prices get out of hand, and that's exactly what happened. Five-calices approached the ceiling at a time when most of these prices are already sold and actually at outrageous prices, and we will all pay them from the state budget. Even the European Commission - we are talking about the second instrument - came much earlier with this recommended solution of the instrument, in March 2022, again in a completely different time. We have had a whole series of parliamentary proposals here, and I think that if it were too early to stop, you could save tens of billions in the state budget, and we could discuss taxation in time. I think this is a topic for discussion at this difficult time, for discussion and with the opposition, we have repeatedly offered it. But the fundamental problem was and is the inaction of the government. Just then, five minutes after the 12th, hectic adoption of laws, fundamental laws in a non-standard way. The government just overslept the arrival of the energy crisis. She didn't care about advice, at least to think about it! Thus, the government has also resigned from addressing the effects of high inflation, which is one of the highest, fifth highest in our country according to the latest figures. The Baltic States are ahead of us, and now Hungary is new. Czech companies lose competitiveness towards their competitors abroad. In addition, a large number of other outstanding questions arise. How the government wants to address business energy, which is a completely minority part of the market, is a number of - and my colleagues, who are experts in this area, will complement me. Moreover - and the Minister admitted it here - the Czech government has only put a price on small and medium-sized companies. What about big companies? How's that gonna work out? We read every day that they're on their knees. We hear - for me therefore very quietly, representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, I think they should shout louder, scream, but very quietly - I repeat again that they are in danger of crashing. I have heard here several times that this aid of EUR 200 billion from Germany, that it will certainly not happen, that it cannot be done. What do we read? The German Parliament approved it. So where are we? I don't want to say where we are because I'm decent. Again, I have to repeat, it was supposed to be called RIA. Evaluation of the effects of regulation, all of which would be demanded by the Government Legislative Council, it would go to the relevant expert sections to assess it, it would be seen by experts, it would go to committees. How is it possible that I'm talking to the representatives of the professional chambers - they didn't want me to name them here, so I won't. They're saying to me, "We didn't get it at all, we're getting to it all the way." That's just wrong, I don't understand. I don't understand. I've always been interested in any such fundamental new covid law or program that Karel Havlíček mostly processed, so we had an interest in talking to everyone, like in two or three days, but their comments were valuable to us. Plus, we avoided a devastating criticism that would come because you're not just gonna come up with an army of officials. They will help you, they are experts, but there is, of course, lack of contact with the reality and with the needs that, on the contrary, know the professional chambers and associations. [[15.50 hours]] I have to ask about a number of technical things that maybe the representatives of the unions put me to, and which they would have put if they had been able to discuss. Why this notion of extraordinary profit was created, why it also has some discriminatory elements in it, why these sectors are selected, and not even others, this will certainly be asked by my other colleagues, why there are also periods from the time of unprecedented medical crisis and so on, why backups are set to 100 percent. I understand this is a very difficult and extraordinary time. I understand that the government is looking for extraordinary income for extraordinary expenses. I also understand that this does not address the structural deficit - that is what the Minister said, we will say it in more detail tomorrow, that is clear - although the money, in which we also agree, do not have bows, so income will come, expenditure will go away, you know that it is not muffled, and so you probably didn't mean it, but on the other hand, aside from the certainty or the uncertainty of whether the money will come at all, if I pass on the fact that there will be some 100% advance, revenue, these companies will probably, and look at the development in the following years, 85 - 2023, I suspect that 39 - 2024, I think 23 or 25 in 2025. How come there's already been a drop like that? Isn't there a risk that it's going to be returning these advances pre-funded because companies are going to prove that it wasn't? It's chaos. I understand, we support the aid to citizens and businesses, we have always supported all of your laws here, but at the same time we say that you should ensure that you are able to get along with all these risks that I am talking about, because the result of this chaos may be that there will be a real deterioration in the rating of the Czech Republic, because the tax system and the business market are being distorted. Minister, I will conclude my speech today with a quote from a text which I believe you know very well, and I quote: "The progress of the state must be predictable for citizens and entrepreneurs. It is therefore necessary to adopt the laws and their changes well in advance." End of quote. I'll let you and your colleagues guess what this document is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u13	Madam, honourable Members, first I shall read the apologies. Olga Richterová cancels her apology today, and Minister Jan Lipavský apologises from 15.30 for work reasons. The Minister will be next in the debate with a factual remark. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u14	Seriously, then. The criticism that it's non-standard - I accept the criticism. We're in a non-standard time, I don't think I had any other solution than the one I chose. But to be fair, and I don't want to interrupt the debate, during the President's speech, I looked into the tapes and deadlines when we were discussing the tax package for 2021, and I don't know if it was supposed to be a tease, the Minister as a Member - I don't mind, I am a Member, I have a mandate from the electorate, and then I am also a member of the government - so the Prime Minister as a Member has tabled an amendment to abolish the supergross wage. If we add up, today it has a 240 billion impact, and now exactly, the debate at second reading began on 27 October 2020 at 17.18. The Prime Minister's amendment as a Member was submitted to the system on 26 October at 12.22, so if I round it up, it's 29 hours before the start. The effects are at least comparable from the state budget. I don't take it as an argument, I say I didn't think I had any other solution. If anyone doesn't feel comfortable about a non-standard procedure, accept my apology, but I didn't have any choice in time. I just wanted to say that it's not the first time, I hope it's the last time I'm working, at least I hope, because we don't know what's going to happen in a year or two. And I wanted to say, it's just not unusual. On the other questions, I'm not going to use a factual comment on that. I just wanted to remind you, 29 hours before the hearing, at the beginning of the second reading, we received the amendment by Andrej Babiš. Without RIA, so we know, logically. I didn't criticize it, I also supported the proposal by voting at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u15	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First, President Schillerová, then Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. Thus, the term minister in the role of a Member is nothing debauchery. I just wanted to point out that you are proposing the amendment. I wouldn't give you any disrespect, I hope we understand. Well, that's the fundamental difference between the procedure, Minister. The cancellation of the supergross wage was something - we canceled something that worked here for years, we knew exactly what it had impact, we had a political agreement before, you know that we talked about it before, it was here across the line, supported the club of the ANO movement, the biggest opposition club of the ODS, supported it at that time by the SPD, which can be said that there was just a huge consensus, and even when, after that tax night, wild, when the pirát - I think they were pirát - read and passed unfortunately, the changers, which meant a really huge gap in public budgets, so I asked the Senate for a correction and we managed to negotiate a version that was supported there in the Senate, it was a version where we also agreed a compromise within the budgetary determination of taxes, when the compromise agreed to increase the discount on the taxpayer, including the cancellation of the supergross wage. That was different. We were able to quantify the tax precisely because there were clearly stated impacts that the Ministry of Finance knew, and we left the money to people, entrepreneurs, employees, but also entrepreneurs, I think now the CFI, and also to regions, cities and municipalities. That was quite a fundamental difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u17	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka and after him, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it's completely different. Fortunately, at this point, my honourable colleague, through Mr President, Alena Schillerová, has explained it. After all, this is a fundamental legislation to determine how we are going to deal with this energy crisis this year, next year, perhaps in the next, and perhaps in the next, and you, instead of submitting it as a government bill, to pass through the guarantee committee, to discuss it here at first reading, so you have normally simply deprived us of the first reading, you have deprived us of the debate on this bill, you have deprived us of the discussion on the committee's ground, and at this moment we are faced with a complete matter where we have absolutely little time to put our amendments into the system. I can accept your apology, of course, but the fact that there is little time for that is only your excuse, Minister. It's your excuse. I mean, you've known for months, you should have just prepared for it. We're calling for completely different kinds of solutions here. You're not discussing anything at all, and now you're coming up with a windfall tax, which even Prime Minister's economic advisor, Štěpán Křeček, will call pasquil. [[16.00 hours]] Now you're telling us that you're sorry, and how we're supposed to study it, somehow read it. What do you expect us to do now? After all, it has been a number of times since - and Minister Síkela started here a few months ago - you are putting things into the legislative process here within a few hours that we are not even able to study, and when, moreover, their own amendments are coming from the government Members to correct it in some way, by the mouth of Štěpán Křeček. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u19	Thank you. Now, the Minister with a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u20	Unlike the second report to the amendment by Andrej Babiš, which contains a visible lie that it will apply for two years... I didn't want to have a debate about what happened. I told you, I've seen this place in the opposite guard, that's all. If we don't understand the time pressure we have, as Mr Juchelka has just shown, that's fine. We don't have that comfort. When I asked if we were able to agree on a rapid shortening of deadlines, I got the answer that you can't guarantee it, so don't be mad at me. It was an option that I was debating, I got an answer, and I understand that there is no guarantee of shortening deadlines in advance. But if it's due at the latest on January 1, I had no choice, I had no choice. And don't tell me about the months that we're gonna put this debate somewhere else. I've been listening for months about Hungary, months about Slovak ceiling prices, months, one after another, you've been walking. What's the reality? I try to assess the reality of legislation in other countries and not just read subtitles that may be inaccurate, do not correspond to reality. I said I had no choice, and if it touched anyone, I'm sorry. If an apology isn't accepted, there's nothing I can do, there's nothing more I can do. The $100 billion will end up in people, too, they'll be used to compensate, for the cost of money, it's not like I'm gonna take $100 billion away from somebody and let them. We have two options, and it's in public space. Either we take that $100 billion away from people or we don't give it to them, we take the same thing somewhere, we raise taxes on income that we've cut together - many economists advise us - or we take it from these few biggest companies that profit - I'm not saying that intentionally - from the coincidence. I choose the other one from these two choices. If you have any other choice, you have another suggestion, so tell them we're not giving anything to people or taking it away from them. That's legitimate. I don't think so. So we had no choice but to choose this fast, non-standard path to be able to pay compensation for the price that was being paid. That's just a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u21	Thank you. I am now registering two factual points. First Mr Juchelka, then Mrs Schillerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u22	Thank you very much. The Minister's got a few things going on here. This isn't about the contents of the law. This is once again about the way this is being discussed, and it's starting to be that way, I'd say, with this government's clumsy standard. You took our time. You took the time to study it, to make amendments, to somehow stand up to it. You don't have it in the coalition, and you're still discussing it this morning. It is simply that I accept your apology, but the fact is that you cannot organise your work in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u23	Now, Mrs Schillerová, Mrs Peštová will be ready, then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u24	Mr. Secretary, let's finish the whole story. I admit - and I said it in public several times: yes, you came to me, it's about ten days, maybe fourteen, you introduced the proposal to me and you talked to me about the possibility of shortening deadlines. And I have made it clear to you - I have also told Deputy Minister Kouba, who then came to me with your consent for the next week - that I demand at least or please, I think I have even used a very mild word of this kind to pass through at least a short notice procedure. I used to do a two-day commentary procedure for the covid laws, three-days to give us some calculations. I don't have any calculations. How could I guarantee you anything? I said I was open -- you remember -- I said I was open to any debate. Please don't make us lobbyists. We are certainly not lobbyists, nor banks, nor companies, nor anyone. We're not... [[Minister Stanjura objects.]] ... not that you're saying who to take it from, if not these companies. We just want you to treat us as standard. Not from the position of strength that you have a majority here and you say whatever you want here, we'll do whatever we want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Peštová, then the Minister, both with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Most of the people before me say a lot of what I wanted to say too, but in any case, some of the unions turned to me just because they didn't have the chance. At least that short or that shortened inter-resortional review - they didn't see what you were preparing at all, because you basically spewed it out on Friday, and they didn't see it at all. So I've got my performances ready here because a letter from the Chemical Industry Union came to you. And I'm not lobbying for the chemical industry itself, it's just that the chemical industry is wide, it's not just Unipetrol, there's a lot more of those companies that really are currently, as it's ready, going to be bits, because so... But I'm saying, I have my performances ready, and I hope you'll respond to that. I'm really interpolating for the fact that this interresorative commentary procedure isn't easy. During the previous parliamentary periods, I have always heard from you that the laws are imperfect, that they are pasculi, precisely because they do not go through a proper legislative process and do not have a properly prepared impact study, which is currently not being developed at all. I don't know where you guys sucked those numbers out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u27	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u28	Today's October 25th, you got 20 in the system. Yes, formal commentary proceedings do not run, run informally and are much more intense. We are informally debating this with everyone to whom the tax is due. That's just the way it is, whether you like it or not. We've taken some of their views into account, some of them haven't. That's right, I won't even fight back. We will see what amendments will be like. Either they pass or they don't pass. I don't know what they're gonna be and what they're gonna be. But about the time point, that's just the key. And I don't blame anyone, I understand that there's no guarantee in advance of shortening the deadlines, that was really not a regret, just a statement of fact. Then I have no choice, okay? I think that if we want to have compensation and not deepen the government debt deficit, this is an instrument as it would be budgetaryly neutral in the medium term. I apologized for the process, not the content. I don't think it's that complicated. I've described the basic principles. This can be understood quickly, and either I'm in or I'm out, or I have other parameters. There's nothing wrong with that. Not really, but it's not a bill that has 100 pages of paragraph and 300 pages of the explanatory statement. In addition to banks, all other fields are the adaptation of the European regulation, which was adopted on 30 September. Three weeks before we put it in paragrafo, three weeks before that. It's certainly not a long time for us to hang out or deal with it in the long run. Besides, they're banks. I explained how it counts, what is the basis, what is the average, how much is increasing, it's really not complicated. I'm not going back to the trial because if anyone doesn't want to understand or says it's wrong, I'm not going to do it. I've explained here that I don't think I have a choice. I'm not happy about it. I'd much rather the regulation was in February and we had six or seven months to do it. We don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u29	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u30	Oh, the minister just left. I'd like to respond to him. In any case, I checked with the Chemical Industry Association to see if they were answered to their letter, which was sent to the absent finance minister, who had just left. In any case, no one responded, no one responded to this letter. So I don't understand how informally they're talking to them because no one answered them. But when they asked questions and wanted to know the bowels in their nature of what was being prepared, no one was able to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u31	Thank you. That's how we used up all the actual notes. Now the application with the priority right of Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, Mr Minister, I will begin with a positive one. I'm gonna try to be very material right now, I won't be long. [[16.10 hours]] As regards the law's own amendment, we do not really have any fundamental comments on this. On the contrary, we assess positively that there are changes, especially for entrepreneurs. I mean, change in VAT, shift the border. I'm sure it's good that it's also being handled or raised by the flatbed. In any case, we positively assess the extension of accelerated or exceptional depreciation, which was still from our workshop, and it will certainly keep the investment to a reasonable extent. So on this, nothing more fundamental, it would probably be a very quick discussion, perhaps we would have a few technical comments, so if it was not for the amendment that I had to stop for a short time. And I'm going to be more concerned with issues and things that I'm here in person, and not just me, we have a big question mark. We do not blame you, Minister, for the fact that this is on a short timetable, that you are under time pressure, that we are quite aware, and that is not where the complaint is headed. There are many things that can be handled in the order of tens of hours or units of days. We blame you for the confusion there is, and we must see that. What's it like today? Today, there is no consensus within the coalition. There's been another suggestion every hour. We are in a situation where we have late afternoon, amendments are to be tabled and there is such confusion that we do not know what else your coalition partners will put in there. A number of experts, lobbyists, all those who want to talk about it are flying down the hall. I don't blame them at all because they defend the interests of different professional groups. They're totally confused about this. I'm sure you have flooded mailboxes with all sorts of opinions, and it is extremely complicated for all of us to do so, all the more so, that we also have to put some amendments at some speed so that the amendments put their heads and feet on the table. That's my complaint, and if we save this, maybe the discussion was quicker. But again, I understand the time pressure, less the fact that you can't agree within a five-wheeler to make it at least on your part united. Then how are we supposed to put it together if, of course, we don't have all the relevant information? This is not a small amount, it is 85 plus 15 billion, it is 100 billion crowns, and we have to realize that even the 100 billion crowns are on the water today. We do not know whether to lean on it or not, and we must also perceive that there is to a large extent uncertainty about all those involved, and they obviously want to comment on it - they did not have the slightest opportunity to comment on it. If there have been informal meetings, so be it, but it doesn't impress me that they've been dealt with in such a way as to at least partially agree on it, and I think that's a big mistake. We too have been under tremendous pressure in the covid, but it has not been a day for us not to deal with them, and we have finally come to a compromise, even if it was not necessary in the ordinary commentary procedure. Where are the biggest questions? In our view and in the opinion of a number of experts, there may be a discrepancy with what the European Union or the European Commission claims and how we are preparing it. On the one hand, we have a tax on profit, we have a so-called income withdrawal at the same time, and it is not possible for you to see a number of expert opinions that claim that this is not in line with what the European Commission claims, in other words, that there may be a double burden. The second is the times or steps to be taken, and not only in 2023, as recommended by the European Commission. Why until 2025? Why is this calculated only from 2018 until 2021 and the following years, if that were the case, why isn't it moving? After all, we all need to know what the environment was like at the time and how it was done and what the profits were at the time, how much it was rising. Second thing. Third thing: it is unclear to me why firms - or even firms - can be included - have at least 25 percent of the turnover from the so-called decisive activity. We understand that it has to be bounded somewhere, but what are we saying? All those who do business in a completely different area, and out of 25 percent it affects the so-called decisive activity, will fall into it. Don't be mad at me, but it's not a war tax anymore, it's a success tax that's not connected at all with the energy business or the so-called decisive activity. Why doesn't it go higher? But if I have information, perhaps there is a certain agreement that it would actually go up. But those are the exact details that we're doing here right now, and that we're creating here in the tens of minutes on the march, and then the question is whether the other things that are there can be burdened by some similar illogicality. The question is whether the level of the rates that are there corresponds, that is, whether the 60 per cent is in line with what the European Commission says when I add up to the 19 per cent of the current ones. Just so we understand each other, that's not the defense of those who have something to pay for. We know that an instrument has to be found, and we understand that the state register needs money to pay for the ceiling and all the other support. But the fact that this is done in a highly non-standard way that it is done in such a way that it is such a mess that even those of the government coalitions who make it, and that it is not being discussed with anybody, the result is that at this point we are discussing something that we don't even know what it looks like. In principle, all of this could have been dealt with in a different and simpler way. We all know that ČEZ will have a gigantic profit. I know you're gonna say to me, "But we're still counting on CEZ to be taxed, or sorry, not taxed, but we're gonna withdraw the dividend." Yes, that's true, but let's do the math. CEZ has an undivided profit of CZK 150 billion for last year and only this year will the operating result be before copies at a level of at least 150 billion. Let's do the math and find out that only CEZ could we possibly get at least the same amount, even faster. Other manufacturers, yes, I imagine there may be a question mark, but other energy companies are far from making that kind of profit. As far as financial institutions are concerned, why six? Yes, there was a number. The question is why we don't go straight through the six banks that are, and we don't use what they're finally offering, and that's that they put money in the National Development Fund, for example. The money would be there quickly, the money with a multiplier effect with further funding could immediately be used on infrastructure, on scientific projects, on health projects and so on, on everything that is, among other things, in the budget of 2023. If we were to use these two resources, which I have just mentioned here, we would have obtained the money more elegantly, faster, we would not have to go so complicatedly, and perhaps we would not have exposed ourselves to any possible legal disputes, which will undoubtedly threaten either from the financial sector or from the energy sector, even in view of what I have said, to a possible discrepancy or probable discrepancy with what the European Commission claims. I'm going to shut up at this point because I think everything else has fallen, I don't want to prolong it. I would like this to be a matter of substance rather than a political debate. I have said my comments, and I certainly believe that this afternoon will still be time to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u33	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and we will now proceed to the duly signed up for the debate. Mrs Klára Dostálová will be the first to speak, Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u34	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues, I do not intend to talk for a long time here, I do not want to talk about why you did not put a stop to energy prices for producers at a time when we called you to do this, which would, to a large extent, solve the current situation, and now you do not need to vote for perhaps the worst solution. I have some very specific questions for the Minister, because there are a few things that we, as opposition, as well as experts and economists, are not only concerned about. The first question is very simple, but actually absolutely fundamental: why did the government not go the way of implementing the European Union regulation? I really don't understand. We have the Presidency, Europe has agreed on something under your leadership, you have impersonated it as a success, but then we are still embarking on our own experiment, which makes this regulation literally a tearing calendar. We've already had one of those experiments. I'm sure you remember your flagship, the energy tariff that ends as fast as it started. You don't even have a match in the coalition for today's hearing. Government MEPs have prepared absolutely fundamental amendments, the Prime Minister's advisor talks about the proposal as a pasquila, economists, even those who reported on the idea at the beginning, are now criticizing the proposal, but also the procedure itself. [[16.20 hours]] There is basically no positive opinion in the public space, and since the debate has not actually taken place, I want to ask you why the law has not approved the government and does not go into the ordinary legislative process, perhaps with shorter deadlines. I know that, in the context of factual remarks, the Minister has already responded to this, but of course there is really no reason for such a fundamental law as the introduction of a war tax not to have a short notice procedure. So why don't we at least get on the table today, since this solution has already been chosen, some detailed calculations that would actually result from the impact assessment analysis, but we don't have that, so I assumed that, as Members, we would get at least some basic figures, dates, as she spoke about it, through you, my dear colleague Mrs Peštová, so that we would know what those figures were based on, how those numbers came about. And that is what I am getting: beyond the European regulation, you have included banks in this. So I would like to ask you, since we no longer respect the regulation and extend it to ourselves, so I want to ask what segments this will be about. You yourself say that this is a war tax, and extraordinary profits are undoubtedly made by, for example, arms companies. So I'm asking, Minister, why isn't this about the arms companies? I hope, even though you're not here right now, that I'll get an answer to these questions because we couldn't respond at first reading. This would otherwise take place at first reading, but unfortunately we are not in this situation, so unfortunately these questions must be asked now, because, of course, we expect the adoption of amendments in a detailed debate. And as I have already said, they are not even in agreement with the coalition, let alone in the debate with the opposition, and I would be very interested, if we do not stick to the regulation of the European Union, we are expanding the segments, why such a significant segment, where I have read in the media, that record profits of arms companies are expected, why they are not, when it is called a war tax, why they are not included in those segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u35	Thank you. Roman Kubíček will be next and Mr. Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be more brief because a lot has already been done here, so I would not like to repeat myself. As I recall, and I'm going back a little bit in the past, actually, this war tax is starting to be mentioned sometime in June of this year, when the National Budget Board prepared some NERV materials to decide whether to create a so-called sector tax or war tax. Supporters of the sector tax were Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and ODS supported the war tax in the global. The war tax is nothing unusual, it has happened many times in the world, whether it was the United Kingdom or the United States, but it has been a one-time, predictable tax and does not affect the fundamental principles of economic priorities. At this point, I am not quite sure if anyone has put their hands on it and calculated all the impacts and all the costs of introducing this tax and the economic benefits. I also have to look at this from the point of view of the Lafferův curve, where I would say that the ceiling that has been applied, that is to say 60 per cent of the tax plus 19 per cent of the tax that is given, is 79 per cent combined, and, in tax theories, more than 50 per cent is not of great importance, because all companies will launch so-called optimization at national, European and global level. You're not gonna find the money, and if you give them enough time, you're gonna wonder how it's gonna turn out. In any case, at this very time, I would expect a certain negotiation to take place, a certain agreement with those producers, producers, those with those who have those excessive profits, banks, miners, energy, and so on, where there is actually some reasonable rate of the war tax, and if this war tax - and clearly everyone bleeds, I understand that everyone will say that they want as little as possible, and the finance minister will clearly want the highest one - but that is just the work that is going on. And in any case, there has to be a framework, a time, a year, a year, we can go back to whether the situation starts again and continues because there is a year to 2025, which I think is unnecessary, and in a year we can go back to that. I'd say from what I've been looking at, I'd probably like the pirát tax better, but I don't like the retroactivity again. It's a big problem, and if I have information, there are already some trials in Italy regarding the introduction of a windfall tax and there is no way to know how it's going to turn out. It could happen to us, too. So there would be some predictableness. I understand the pressure, too, and I understand that it had to be done very quickly. On the other hand, I have noticed - he said it here, Mr Havlíček, through Mr President - that, in fact, some of the fields have been defined, the decisive activity, only 25%, which is little. Maybe I can think of farms for which it could be a big problem. So I'm just asking - it's the worst thing for me that we haven't had the debate. The Minister of Finance knows me, and he knows that I'm not a quartermaster, that I'm always trying to have fun and keep an eye on some poodle core and let myself be convinced of certain things, because now the bill was a bill, an amendment to that a lot of e-mails, letters sent to us by unions and individual people, and I have to decide somewhere to find the peace that is right for everyone to do it right. And once again, I think that this extraordinary war tax is right today, and those companies have to share the extraordinary profits, whether it is with a citizen of the Czech Republic or with our industry, because it is also important for the future. It's not just about people, it's about how it's going to go on. I hope the debate is still going to work out here. I know that this is very short, very non-standard, we will try to make some amendments, but only to make sense, not to give something to talk about it. So then we can still talk about it. Thank you for listening to me and for your opinion to be in favour of citizens and companies of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now there would be two factual points. Minister Jana Černochová will be the first to speak, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must speak because what has been said here by Mrs Dostálová really remains the reason to stand. If the YES movement thus imagines support for the Czech arms industry, employment support, support for the economy of the Czech Republic, that is exactly the way: let's tax everyone who moves? You see, Mrs Dostálová, through the Vice-President, part of Europe is at war, and if we want this war to end as soon as possible, and I believe that we all want it here, it is necessary to increase production, increase lines, really do everything in the Czech Republic to profit from it as many Czech entities as possible, but not by making profits from those companies. Of course, the raw materials have all been raised here, so speaking of the fact that there is some higher export policy, it is positive in the sense that in particular the Czech Republic focuses on arms exports to Ukraine, but it does not mean that these companies have enormous profits. You know how the cost of these companies went up, do you realize that? I do not really understand your pointless proposal, nor do I, the Minister of Finance, and therefore, if the YES movement here has been saying for years how it wants to support Czech companies, you would do the exact opposite of your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u39	Thank you. Now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, after him Mrs Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u40	I would like to respond to Mr Kubíček's speech. Retroactivity - effective from 1 January 2023 - is not imminent. I am aware of the risks, despite the fact that European rules allow this in principle, but that something is allowed does not mean that we will automatically use it and anchor it into our legal system, so we will resolve it. The farmers, they don't fit. I think it is important that you take a look at Section 17c, paragraph 4: "Deciding income for an unexpected profit tax is the domestic income from decisive activities." And those decisive activities are listed. This means that when you imagine a group in which electricity production, such as biogas stations and the like, would have to exceed 2 billion revenues from this particular one activity and there is no such case in the Czech Republic. So it's not the income of the whole group from all the activities that the group is going to perform, then it would be unfair to other companies that are the other activity and do not have electricity production or some of the listed ones. So this applies only to the listed activities on c) and only to the part where the group has, for example, agricultural activities. [[Is it?]] So that's really solved, that's not the problem, that's what I think we understand - only those decisive activities that are listed - the 5, 10, 06, as the individual code lists are. So it's not really a threat, they won't be taxpayers of this tax, I can say that with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u41	Thank you and I will now ask Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I am not at odds with you - through the President - but I did not call it a war tax. I didn't call it a war tax, and if I read an article in the media on iRozlas that because of the war in Ukraine, sales are three times higher than last year, and the aim of this tax is to withdraw, of course, from companies that have excessive profits in this situation in order to get it back to our citizens, then, of course, the aim is to raise as much money as possible so that the support is as high as possible. When you argue that energy costs have increased for armorists, they have also increased for example for producers or fossil fuel producers. That means it's increased everyone's energy costs. So when we talk about excess profits as such in connection with the war in Ukraine, I just asked why you supplemented the banks and why you didn't fill in other industries such as the arms industry, because I read in the media that sales went up three times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u43	Thank you. Again, two factual points. First, Minister Jana Černochová and then Minister Stanjura. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u44	I don't know what my colleague's idea is. I have a pretty Dostálová idea of how the budgets work, if we have some kind of acquisition process at the Ministry of Defence, how commodity prices rise, how the prices of raw materials are rising, from which military materials are usually produced. If Mrs Dostálová wants to achieve that the costs for this state, for a state that has decided to modernise its army, the costs for the Czech Republic will be higher, so taxation will also be shown in this way that, in fact, the Department of Defence will pay much more funds to these entities precisely because if taxation occurs, it will be reflected in the price. Don't you get that? This isn't about sales. This is also about the fact that there's some capacity for these arms companies, they're all trying to produce at the moment, employing people. Some people are being fired, for example, the Czech Armory announced sometime last week that it will be firing - if I'm not mistaken - 40 employees, so all these companies are dealing with the economic crisis, not just the companies that you or your predecessors were talking about. And if we really want to support industry as such, we want those people to further form the backbone of some employment, we can't tax them at this time when the state really needs them, like it never needed them before in the past -- maybe it was in 1938 and 1939 for the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u45	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u46	Thank you. Only those companies for which we propose an unexpected profit tax, it is in § 17c para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) to (j). They answer - I speak to Mrs Dostálová - the European regulation, only we added a letter to), these are the banks, and I explained why. There's nothing else the government wants to add. It is legitimate if someone proposes something else, it is a conscious decision, so points (a) to (j) are adaptation, letter (k) is a conscious decision. Here I said it was a national solution, that's what we added, we don't want to add anyone else. If anybody adds another field, we'll vote on it legitimately. That's all I have to say. Point (a) to (j) is adaptation, letter (k) is our national solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u47	Thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u48	Mr Vice-President, I'm logged in, then I'll speak, but I don't really understand the tone that was here on my colleague, Klára Dostálová. That's just legitimate. There is something that you should address with a completely separate amendment, stick it to the value added tax - stick it to it, then I will talk about it - and then when the opposition makes an amendment, you lean on it, why not another one. I haven't heard the explanation here why banks, and that's why I'm the last of the 200 here to protect them when I've been pointing out the amount of bank charges in Czech relations for 12 years or 18 years. But why them, why not the arms industry? It needs justification, it can be classified in different fields. If you come up with a proposal, please note that the opposition is chasing amendments at a speed around here. Please keep that tone out of the way when we're already doing this thing that's supposed to put 85 billion in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u49	Thank you. Now, the de facto remark made by Minister Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u50	It's always subjective: keep the tone, what's important is what's black in white, and then you won't hear the tone in the tapes. The lightening thing. I'd like to avoid the fact that it's a sticker. It's in the draft law 254, the amendment to the Income Tax Act, so we're not sticking anything, it's under this law, now I think from the point of view of the rigid interpretation that I'm going to stick a tax or something to the Road Traffic Act, so it's not an adhesive. It's an extension or another amendment, another paragraph, a new paragraph, but a law that's been part of this press from the start. It's not just the VAT Act, it just happens to be written first. There could also be a law that amends the VAT Act, income tax, and some other laws. It could also be written: it is a law amending the VAT Income Act and some other laws. So it's right in the title. I'm begging you, let's not confuse it. It's not a sticker. Yeah, we've said a lot about that, so it's just, we're not gonna change that. I was here saying it's legitimate to make suggestions, or maybe to others, maybe I had too light a tone, I could have chosen a different tone. I have justified why we have added only banks, which I have explained in my opening words and I will not justify why we have not added the others. If anyone wants a raise, he's supposed to be the one to justify it. I think it's the right thing to do. No offense, we'll see what kind of amendment will fall if it falls, so we'll consult and then we'll vote on it at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u51	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Šalomoun will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u52	Mr President, honourable Members, I believe that it is not appropriate to place the armory actually on the ground that the tax, the windfall tax, is meant to be excessive profits in the event of unforeseen circumstances, that despite the fact that the entities to which it is affecting are not overflowing with some new activity, yet fate has put it in their laps that they really have excessive profits. With the armory, I think it's something else, that they've started to produce about multiple times, so they've increased their turnover, but they really think they're going to do a lot more than that, whereas they're going to target sectors here, which, without in any way fundamentally innovating, without increasing their activity in any way, they're going to increase their profits in an excessive way. And that's what they're aiming at, and that's probably why armorers aren't the appropriate sector for this type of taxation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u53	Thank you. Now with the factual remark of Minister Jana Černochová. Just please, colleagues and colleagues, if you want to discuss it, please discuss it in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u54	Maybe even for refills. No country in the world is raising taxes to arms companies at this time. If the Czech Republic does so, it will competitively destroy these companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u55	Thank you. There is no factual point, in which case we will continue to be duly entered in the debate. First of all, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only briefly respond to what the Minister of Šalomoun said here. In the proposal, in the amendment to taxation of extraordinary profits, it is not quite clear which economic activity it is heading towards. Of course, these companies will often have income across the board, and it is rather due to some average of some 20 percent higher in the last three years. This is taxed in some way, so it can also tax an activity which, for example, increased margin or profit on the basis of some innovation, so it is not quite clear from the proposal, or rather directed towards all activities. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Originally, we were supposed to talk here today about the amendment to the Income Tax Act, the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, through positive amendments that I actually praised here last time at first reading, that these are all positive things that contain these proposals. Of course, it is an increase in the threshold for compulsory VAT registration, the 2 million, which we have also proposed here in the last parliamentary term, basically also colleagues from ODS, and we from the SPD actually very often, and I am glad that it finally got into the legislative process and that it will be. Likewise, the introduction of flat-rate tax and the lifting to CZK 2 million. I think it's a good thing, and it's gonna help the businessmen, it's gonna help the citizens. I think that's a good thing. As for what's probably the biggest debate today, that's the way it is. I think that the real amendment to introducing a new tax to my brother for almost 100 billion, I think it is not an appropriate way that at least some commentary procedure should have taken place. Other opposition parties should react more in some way, because this is really how we have de facto a few hours, to some reaction of such a comprehensive amendment, which I think includes the explanatory report of 31 pages. I think it's not entirely fair and kosher to approach such essential things so that the opposition doesn't have the right space and can't somehow change and discuss these things, let's say with some expert teams and the like, because we really could say we had hours to do it. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, at least as I have seen it - and I am not talking about the fact that the coalition is still divided, that there are actually two amendments, or the amendment to the amendment to another coalition party, from the pirát - I think it is very, very strange and it is to a large extent evidence of some sort of incompetence or amateurism of the government, because such essential things must be discussed well, and then the government should speak unisono, it should only go public with some final proposal, which it will simply announce, and not that it will discuss it, argue about it, and there will still be an amendment to the amendment from the coalition parties. I think it's total amateurism. She really proposed the tax - it has already been said here by one of the previous speakers that it is indeed 60 percent plus 19 percent of corporate tax, that it is a relatively high tax of 79 percent. And, of course, I would understand if the government sprinkled its head with ash, saying, "Yes, we have failed, we have not regulated the prices since spring, as the opposition called for, we expected it to somehow pass, that we would somehow sit it out, and now we're putting out some kind of fire, so we're going to do some extraordinary tax that we're going to discuss and tax - and I would still understand it. But making a tax on extraordinary profits for years that haven't started, for three years in advance, seems like a very special procedure to me. Of course, this will mean that the companies will try to optimize taxes, so the expected selection as planned in the next year's draft budget will certainly not succeed in my view. Even Italy, which introduced 25% of the tax as one of the first countries, today is somewhere in the half of the expected collection that it expected. It's obvious it won't be like that. The second thing is the impact of increased prices on citizens and companies, because three years of such high taxation will also mean writing into the price of products and services. That's what I think is obvious, too. I do not see this as an appropriate solution, as the Government puts it, or the Minister of Finance, as a parliamentary proposal. Finally, I am making three amendments to the original amendment to the tax package. On behalf of the SPD, I made a proposal that increases the limit for taxing occasional income from CZK 30,000 to CZK 50,000. They're like, uh, crop surpluses and stuff, like, small sales that aren't given. Given the rise in price levels and inflation, I think that the border should increase. Then we suggest increasing the discount on a husband who doesn't have his own income. This threshold did not increase as opposed to the basic discount on the taxpayer. It is the wives, mothers on maternity leave, and so forth, where the working husband applies a discount, and so forth, so that he remains a little more money for young families. And the third amendment that we have prepared together with my colleague Karel Sládeček deals with the taxation of small companies, because if we look at the taxation of tradesmen where the border will rise to 2 million, we will look at small family companies, small companies, small companies s. r. o., where the spouses are partners or siblings and so on, so they de facto have the taxation about three times as compared to, for example, how many a businessman or self-employed person has. So we put in that these small companies, which have taxable income for 12 months up to CZK 2 million, so that they will reduce their corporate tax from 19 percent to 10 percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u57	Thank you, too. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Today, at 17 o'clock for health reasons, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologizes, and on the whole day of the meeting on account of a foreign trip, Mr Karel Smetana apologizes. Mr Josef Kott will now appear in the debate, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u58	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have prepared a very simple amendment, which has already been asked by my colleague Roman Kubíček. I thank the Minister for responding to this and explaining what led him to set the limit in his amendment. However, I will allow myself to read the amendment because I believe that there should be a harmonisation of parameters, as he has on banks and other businesses. I believe that even the businesses that - he said it here - are below the bank parameters, so I assume that for unification and simplicity, the limit set there for banks of 6 billion and for other businesses of 2 billion could unite. For this reason, I have prepared and uploaded into the system House document 1473, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. [[16.50 hours]] It's very simple. They are uniting, as I said here, the parameters for both banks and other groups of businesses, and I do not look for - and I believe that the others will not look for anything else behind this, except that there will be a parameter that will be set uniformly for both business entities and banks. Thank you for your attention and, if necessary, for supporting my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u59	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Michal Kučera and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. But before that, the Minister and his point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u60	Just an explanation for Mr Kott, I will try to explain it even further before the third reading. There is a difference - for energetic companies there are sales and for banks there is actually profit, it is yield, it is the difference between income and costs, therefore with. [[unintelligible]] It's just that it can't be compared so easily, each parameter is different, even if both are numbers. That means the $6 billion isn't just interest income, but it's a return, which means what the bank collects and what it pays again. So let's just know that it's just not the same. Otherwise, we will somehow deal with the amendment at third reading, but it is different methods. Both are numbers, and I don't see any connection between the two sectors, because something else is, if we say that energy activity would be revenue, or profit, 2 billion. But I've been trying to explain that it's only about the codes, so in my opinion, no farm can go down there because no one in our databases has that kind of income from these activities. But we will explain this before the third reading, or I will prepare a more detailed analysis, so that not only you, but all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, can make it very clear. I just wanted to explain the difference between the two parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u61	Thank you. Mr Kott's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u62	Yeah, thank you, thank you for explaining. There really was only one thing that led me to do this. As part of the distribution of the portfolio of individual and not only agricultural holdings, of course, we have or have led those enterprises to basically become self-sufficient in energy, so that we can actually eliminate the production of either biogas or electricity, so that they can also supply to the network. They are stable manufacturers, unlike, for example, wind power itself, and I am not really looking for anything to do with it. Thanks for the explanation, I just took it so that those businesses could get into an uncomfortable position within their portfolio with the fact that they were producing the company. So now there's a percentage that he produced more electricity than the remaining portfolio of his business, and it could have happened that just the synergies that were supposed to be there and which led us to do it could have shown that the company should be taxed above another. But there's really nothing in it that should be offensive, so only from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u63	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for the reaction of the Minister with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u64	One more explanation. In addition to the fact that there is only the limit of specific activities, the limit does not count according to the text of the law if the electricity or gas consumed itself or other companies in the group. That's still being humiliated. This means, of course, self-sufficiency is supported, among other things, by not being subject to taxation. So we're talking theoretically, it would have to be an agricultural holding that will supply the other customers, not to themselves and in the group, with generated electricity for more than 2 billion per year. I don't think such a business exists in the Czech Republic. That's why it's just the assurance that there are two control mechanisms. For captive use it is not subject to the basis either, and in addition a relatively high level of sales limit. Well, that's just to explain that there's no chance they'd be subject to this tax. That's all I had to say about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u65	Thank you. So now another duly signed-in and the first to appear, Mr Michal Kučera, will be prepared by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u66	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna pick up a little debate here before me. The Minister of Finance Stanjura has already partly explained the situation relating to agricultural holdings, and my amendment, which I would like to imagine here, concerns the same or similar topics. This is an amendment which contains the definition of the tax on unexpected profits for enterprises which have the relevant income for the tax on unexpected profits at least 50 per cent of its aggregate net turnover. We are - because I have prepared this amendment together with my colleague Honza Jakob and after consulting the members of the agricultural committee - we have been trying to prevent the application of the tax to taxpayers who are secondary or even marginal, and would qualify as taxpayers only because of membership in a group of enterprises with unexpected profits. He explained it in part here, but I think that this amendment, which is presented here, will give quite clear instructions, or clear definitions, which may not result from the application of the law, or from its correct understanding. This means that it is set so that the activity must actually account for at least 50 per cent of the company's sales in the exceptional tax. It is directed, of course, to organisations or farms that produce energy from biogas stations. Of course, those biogas stations form a closed cycle, which uses plant production or waste from livestock farming and, of course, contribute to the overall positive energy balance in the Czech Republic. I have inserted the amendment under 1476, in a detailed debate, and I believe that my explanation of the amendment, or his defence, will be sufficient to gain your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mr Patrik Nacher, duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister and fellow Members. I would also like to comment on this House's press and, above all, on the comprehensive amendment that concerns the tax on unexpected profits. I'm sure you've noticed when we were doing a great deal with the Minister of Finance when we were discussing the change in the budget for the budget determination of taxes, where he trained me here in quotation marks, to bring to the cities and municipalities an increase in the rate in the budgetary determination of taxes to 25.84 %, until it came to such a stage that we were slowly placing bets here, and that was because it increased to 25.84 as part of the abolition of the supergross wage, when it came to the fact that cities, municipalities, regions lost part of the shared taxes, and therefore the coefficient increased. In relation to this, because it was the government's current coalition that fought with us to increase it this way, I am really in complete shock quotation marks, what I found today with my colleagues from our parliamentary club, including through the letters we received from the Union of Towns and Municipalities that shared tax within corporate taxes is automatically income within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes on cities, municipalities and regions. I see the minister nodding. [[17,00 hours]] I am therefore very surprised that the Minister is presenting in a comprehensive amendment, or she wandered in there when I would say that there is a sentence in which he says that it will be a separate tax to which cities and municipalities, the regions will not be entitled. That is, if I were to translate it into the Czech language, that, within the framework of the tax on unexpected profits, local authorities are automatically entitled to do so. It's logical, too. And the Minister of Finance, who is also the former mayor, comes - and I would like to stress this - with an indirect amendment which, in my opinion, is also contrary to legislative rules, because he, and this is not a very correct way with which he comes, because in the provisions of Section 21 paragraph. 5 - and I would recommend to all coalition, municipal politicians and Members to take a look at this paragraph - the introduced law was put there by the Minister of Finance by the so-called mysterious letter Y, an indirect amendment in which he says that - and I will quote it precisely: "The tax on unexpected profits is a separate corporation tax and does not constitute tax revenue for the budgets of local government entities from corporate tax." And it is presented by the Minister of Finance in income tax. If this change should occur, it must be in the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes. I consider this to be the case with cities, municipalities, regions that provide all the public services that ensure the running of hospitals, social services, schools and other things that ensure the refugee crisis, covid and all things, and I consider this to be an enormously incorrect approach that has been smuggled into this comprehensive amendment, and I believe that the mayors and captains do not deserve this in any way. They themselves know what they lack in their cities, towns, regions. They themselves can write grant programs, and if the government doesn't - and the government doesn't do in many ways in the context of the energy crisis, in the context of rising food prices, fuel - they can write for individual vulnerable groups, they can write grant programmes under budgetary rules. And you want to deprive them of these funds? And still this way? So I would like to say from this point of view that, with our fellow Members from our club, we are proposing an amendment where we want this sentence, which has gotten there in this way, to be abolished and that cities, municipalities, regions should be entitled to this because they are entitled to it under the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u69	Thank you. Let me greet you all this way, I have taken over the proceedings of the meeting and I see here the factual remark of Mr Ivo Vondrák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u70	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to confirm that now, at the moment, all regions are preparing their budgets. I would be lying if I said we weren't able to set those budgets, because, after all, because prices are going down, drastic increases in energy are going to be maintained on more acceptable amounts. However, these amounts are still double what we spent on energy last year. This means, for example, the Moravian-Silesian region is about 996 million, which will cost us energy. I think that the windfall tax as it is presented here is being criticized, sometimes new topics are presented here to change. [[th au]] I think that we should say that, as we have a kind of involvement in all the problems that we now have, this is the Ukrainian crisis, basically there are other problems, it was a covid area where we also had to carry a whole series of things on our shoulders, and I would advocate that we actually say that windfall tax will be the income of self-government. I think that the period as we are beginning to see it from the future perspective of tax collection is starting to slow down by not taking as much of the shared taxes as we expect, and maybe we'll be depending on the windfall tax as well. So I would also intercede for leaving the original that should be there, which means that the authorities will also have those claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u71	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and another with a point of fact is Mr. Ladislav Okleštěk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I am inclined to take the view that was expressed here by both my colleague Vondrák and my colleague Vildumetzová. The fact that we've got the prices down, yes, but we've got them down at the salesman's prices. And if we reacted more flexibly, dear government, we could have had them on producer prices, and there was no need for further such action. So I very much intercede for this magical sentence in Section 21 to fall out and that this tax should be shared and that it should be claimed for cities and municipalities as well as for the regions, because they participate in the economic impact at least as much as the government does, and when the government flows into the shoes, the cities, the regions and the municipalities always help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u73	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mr Stržínek, and so far there is no further point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, Government, colleagues, as mayor of the 20 thousandth city, I must speak up, and there is no other way. Of course, it's not just about energy prices, electricity, gas, we're getting incredibly hot. Prices are announced on aqueous and coiled, which are tens of percent higher. Fuel prices are rising, which significantly affect our budgets from the point of view of cities operating public transport. The cost of serving loans and debts that many of us, like cities, have is rising. We contribute to social services in the health sector, even here we have higher demands for participation by cities. Of course, we still pay the service of, say, the performance of the state administration in individual municipalities. The fact that, in the context of the taxes that are now rising, cities are being robbed from my point of view of their shares, which they clearly own, is not okay, and it should definitely be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u75	Thank you, and since there is no other factual fact, another duly applied for is Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u76	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, well, I would also like to say a few words. Firstly, in response to what has been said here, higher taxation in the arms industry reduces the competitive advantage or worsens the competitive struggle - approval. Logic: where there is greater or higher taxation, this, of course, reduces competition or puts it at a disadvantage in a competitive struggle, no doubt, but the whole amendment is about tax increases. That's one point. Two: we have been talking here for the last ten months about the fact that even though we are such electricity producers, that we even export it, 20 percent of the electricity we export, we are self-sufficient, we export it, yet we have one of the most expensive. And if we take it to average wage, that means purchasing power parity, it's the most expensive electricity in Europe, maybe in the world. And that also affects the competitive struggle. So I'm asking why the arms industry is fighting for it, and the rest of the industry either resigned, or so I don't have a strong word that the Minister would catch me on, so I'm gonna say it's a slow solution. [[17.10 hours]] And so I'm going back to, for example, an amendment to the State Budget Act of 2022, where we work with the $30 billion for entrepreneurs, but for me and for us, and you said it on the microphone, it's too late. They don't spend it till the end of the year. This means that there is a clear competitive disadvantage to the fact that the Czech industry must pay more expensive electricity than in all the surrounding countries, however we produce it here, we even export it! And none of the other ministers will say that on the microphone. Now, Secretary of Defense here - there's no hat down, she's fighting for her resort, okay, but it would be good for all the other ministers, including the Minister of Industry, to fight this consistently for those departments, because then we're just saving the arms industry so that it's not taxed, but another competitive disadvantage in the field of expensive electricity doesn't bother us. Well, that's kind of a comment on the debate that's been going on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u77	I think it's okay to hear each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u78	The O.R.'s calm, and I'm here for the Minister, and then he always borrows the notes from me because I have all the inquisitive questions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u79	You know, I'm being polite myself not to remind the Prime Minister, but I didn't really think it was that loud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u80	Thank you. As far as the principle is concerned, I'm not here criticizing the principle of taxation of unexpected profits, that's how I would describe it. Unexpected, it means something that is - I don't know if undeserved, but what actually fell from heaven, he also is an accurate translation of English - so the principle is fine because we are in an extraordinary time. But what I dare to criticize constructively about this is the procedure and the content. Even before the parentheses of the procedure and the content, I dare say that the amount of additional taxation would not have to be such if the concept of price caption was better designed, because then we actually do two similar jobs. We're not going to put it where we should, which actually makes producers, distributors aren't motivated, that price can evolve in any way, and then it will actually pay the artificially frequently increased price that comes from the stock exchange, and it doesn't really matter to those people at that point. They won't pay it as consumers, consumers, they'll pay it as taxpayers. So we're going to give them a higher profit, but then we're going to actually tax it here, that means, but that's before the parentheses. But I'm going to do the procedure and the content now. Maybe the content is more important, so I'll start with him. In that proposal, if you look at what the European Union recommends, we're talking about 2022, 2023, certainly not 2024, 2025, so I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance why the years 2024, 2025 are there, if we really don't know how it's all going to go? If the theory is that this is an extraordinary thing that came in here at second reading to keep up with some speed, then why are we here to deal with 2024 and 2025? The second point in terms of content is: I dare say that it is not possible for it to work retrospectively. And here I would like to ask the Minister again - if he is listening to me, now he is talking to our President, so I will wait - that he cannot work retrospectively for me, and that is why I regret the communication of the government and you, because I only recorded twice the change last week, first that it will be valid for 2022 - then see how the Prague Stock Exchange, the one of you who is trading on the Prague Stock Exchange, knows what I am talking about - then the Minister of Finance, correctly for me, he denied that afternoon and said that no, the next day after that, I suspect that the Twitter Pirates will show up again that they will insist on it, and this opinion is still going on today. [[Fun in the hall.]] So I'm kind of wondering if we're here to discuss second reading, which is what it is. That means that these parameters are changing for me at this point in time, and there's no consensus in the government coalition, at least at the level of those public statements. If you have a deal, it's possible, I don't know, but at the level of public statements, you're different, which is really hard to understand. Minister, don't be mad at me about how we, as opposition, are supposed to be dealing with this, especially when we are at second reading, so we do not have time to make amendments between first and second reading. We have to say it on the microphone here, and if we miss it, it's over, you know the procedure. But how are we supposed to know if it isn't quite clear on what parameters the government coalition itself agreed on? And that's my legitimate question, that's not offensive, that's a legitimate question. Is what you said, closer to me, or what the pirát wrote? That's a basic question for me for you. Not to mention that all this information, and you know that, is cursive information. Now it's 17.16, so it's no longer trading on the stock market, so your possible answer for the moment won't affect it, unlike when someone comes out at 9:00 in the morning, when the stock market opens, it's kind of a problem. So I'm really wondering if these parameters are given, and if you're really counting on it being done retroactively for the year 2022, which is a problem for me, however much that would be enough to approve this year, it's still at least indirect retroactivity for me. And now for the procedure. We have here, as the Minister rightly said - and here I apologize for it, I didn't mean the label in terms of content, you're right, it's an amendment to the Value Added Tax Act, income tax, there's an increase in the limit for the creation of the platery from a million to 2 million and so on, you all know it, you have it in the press, I'm not going to say this here - but I thought it was a sticker in terms of principle, not content, it's not an adhesive from that content. Well, if you were to put it to the ozone layer over there, to print 75, that would be a classic label, but I'm more of a principled label here, because that's a really big thing, a selection of some 85 billion crowns. It seems to me that it would be fair for the government to discuss this, to collect information from the comment points of the various ministries. Now I don't want it to have RIA and so on and so on, it's probably now that it's in such a hurry, so well, then it's going to be here for the first reading, we'll cut the deadlines... How many times have we done this? With lex Ukraine several times, the deadline will be reduced to seven days, it can be reduced to seven days, and we've never vetoed these things. But then, in those seven days, sensible amendments can be loaded, somehow, because here we are really talking about things that are supposedly affected by 85 billion crowns. It's not a changeling where there's a few tens of millions here. Notaben, in this procedure, it just seems a little strange to me - that is, Minister, don't be mad at me, it is quite in my opinion that when we vote on this, one of the most fundamental things that we will be voting on in the coming weeks - and it is actually not a government proposal de facto, de iure it is actually a Zbyněk Stanjura amendment, not a government proposal. [[17.20 hours]] I know it may be a procedural one, because we're in a hurry, but at the same time, I'm saying, we're in this, whether it's Ukraine or the state budget, although some of you were afraid that we're gonna be here overnight, so these things don't get bogged down, but we don't build them up, and I think we're worried that we're gonna block the speedy driving -- I don't mean the ninetyth, I mean this seven-day -- it's wrong. This means that at that point we do not have time for amendments, and I am afraid that it will not eventually simply come out of it - it is your responsibility, all right - but that it will not become a pasquil, which will not bring the 85 billion, Minister, into the state budget, because of course the construction of this is very important. And you can imagine that especially in some sectors that I'm not going to name here, then we can say it, the creativity of the accountant and the possibilities of defending it will lead to the fact that so much money will not eventually be chosen anyway. So for the moment, I have said something about it from the point of view of the content procedure, and if the Minister would be so kind as to respond to those reactions - I don't want to overstretch it, I would have responded with the help of the actual ones. Thank you for your attention and thank you for any answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u81	Thank you. There is no actual comment at this time, so I will ask another duly registered, and this is Chairman Jakob. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would point out briefly here and highlight the words that the Minister of Finance said when he presented his amendment introducing that windfall tax, the part that is going to be an extraordinary revenue which, of course, is needed, and it cannot be done otherwise in accordance with the Council of the European Union's regulation, so they will be used for extraordinary spending on both austerity measures, but in particular the solution to help in this critical situation. So I'd like to underline that. Secondly, I would like to present my colleague Miloš Nový's amendment to Minister Stanjura's amendment. Our amendment amends the first sentence of paragraph 2 in paragraph 2. 5 in Section 21, as follows: "The rate of tax on the tax base on unexpected profits applied in 2023 is 60 per cent and the rate of tax on the tax base on unexpected profits applied in 2024 and the years following is 40 per cent'. By this amendment, we want to put this on the table in a variety of options, so that after second reading we can talk about the different options for setting those rates, and also in time, because this rate is designed beyond the other generally applicable taxes or charges, so we know what the proposed 60% rate would mean. At the same time, the Council of the European Union recommends that the rate be set at a minimum of 33 per cent for current taxes and levies. Let's see what other countries are up to. And it would open up the possibilities for some analysis of how this is going to happen, and at the same time we could be uncompetitive over time, so that the parameter would not become an incentive for any optimization. So much on the ground, then in a detailed debate, I will apply to this amendment. I am only calling once again to conclude that this is a proposal aimed at extending the range of options so that we can have a discussion on these options before the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u83	Thank you. We have two factual points here. First Mr. Aleš Juchelka, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And another is Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u84	Thank you very much. Well, I'll try to translate it a little bit, Mr Jan Jakob, by your means. Our coalition is not yet agreed on how we will tax extraordinary profits, because here we have one amendment from the SPOL, the second amendment from the pirát, now comes the third amendment from the SPOL, which is actually the opening back door for not agreeing with the pirát here. And we probably don't have the simple numbers that Minister Stanjura here was talking about, and we're all supposed to know each other because it's simple, but we're probably already getting more and more numbers, because at this point, Mr Jakob, through you, has presented us with two other options for this extraordinary taxation. This means that we already have a wide range of four options here, I suppose, which means Mr Stanjura, Mr Michálek and two Mr Jakob, as I read today. So the de facto government coalition isn't set up, it doesn't know how to deal with it, it's only going to negotiate before the third reading. It will give us some way as a way out, it will give us no time to read our amendments, actually to study it properly. Well, simply and simply government amateurism with everything, which is underlined by Prime Minister Fiala Křeček's advisor, who is talking about pasquila and the fact that companies should, of course, expect some legitimate expectations in tax rates over the years, but unfortunately. It's just that we're ruled by real amateurs here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u85	Another is Mr Nacher, and another is Mr Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u86	Thank you. I originally thought that only the pirát had the amendment, so now a colleague from the TOP 09 also read it. And like I said, I'm gonna follow up on my speech, and I think it's really absurd. Try to imagine that the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, instead of presenting an amendment here, will present her own amendment as an 85 billion MEP, and I will start putting amendments on it with Aleš Juchelka, for example. So tell me if you'd be opposed, how would you look at it? Here, really, in this, this is a very important thing, which is worth 85 billion crowns at this point. You can't discuss it that way for me. So please interrupt, agree on some version, suggest, since we are already at the second reading - and I think we are friendly - one amendment for the government coalition. Then you should treat us as opposed, we will add our own, you either take it or not, and this feels to me that it is a dignified discussion of the matter that taxes companies in the Czech Republic, and not that it is actually done here in the form of a parliamentary proposal, where the parties, the five-wheelers, then give amendments to the amendment, and what do you want us to do with the opposition when we have to make amendments when we do not know what the final version is? So admit it, colleagues, if this were happening the other way around, you'd be stuck on this microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u87	Thank you. Another one with Mr Jakob in fact. So far, there is no other factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u88	Thank you. I would really like to ask my colleague Juchelka, through Mr President, not to translate my words, it is not necessary. I thank him for not doing this in the future, and rather he listens to me better, because here he said about some of the two variations I'm putting forward - no, so please, let's just listen and not translate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u89	Thank you. Your de facto triggered a whole bunch of others. First is Mr Juchelka, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u90	I'm trying to translate this because it's so incomprehensible, because you, on the one hand, are making it very chaos within not only the tax package itself, so let's say we've been discussing this here since the first reading, but in the context of the windfall tax amendment. I don't think anybody can really figure it out anymore. So how many of these amendments are there, what are your rates? I mean, the businessmen here to which it applies, they listen and they have to rip their hair off their heads because they don't know what they're on, and their calculators are on their mobile phones now, and they're like, "Come on, it's gonna be 40 percent, 60 percent, 80 percent, what's it gonna look like, what's it gonna look like, when it's gonna be approved, what are we gonna do with amendments, do we have to call somebody else? This is an incredible mess you're creating here, but you yourself as a government coalition, you don't have anything in your hand. As I said here with Minister Síkela, who had a large energy package here within a few hours, five amendments came up because it needed to be fixed, and now we're experiencing it again at the main point, I would say, with the main weapon against the energy crisis, windfall tax, we're experiencing the exact same thing. You here want to put 85 billion in the budget with the amendment, and everyone is saying that it is not even possible to collect it. That's what economists, experts, government advisors, Prime Minister's advisors say. It's unbelievable what you guys are doing here. This is where you show it to the people you want to take the money from, and then somehow redistribute it to them in a transparent way. It's not possible! You don't even know how much money you're going to raise because you don't even know which of the amendments you're going to support. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And that's what you're asking us to understand you and to give you the votes. I repeat, amateurism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u91	Thank you. The next is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u92	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I assumed the Minister of Finance would respond to my performance, but it didn't. And since we do not have the power of ministers here, but we have the Minister for Legislation here, I would like to invite him to take on this proposal, on a comprehensive amendment tabled by the Minister of Finance to comment on it, because it seems impossible for the Minister of Finance to submit such an indirect amendment, and by this indirect amendment he will take what the cities, municipalities and regions are entitled to, and that is the corporate tax. I would very much like you to comment, Minister, on this out of your purview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u93	Thank you. Another, with a factual remark, is Mr Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u94	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, I would like to see Mr Jakoba - Mr colleague, you have called on our colleague not to translate your performances, that this is not necessary. You can't judge it in your godliness, you just can't judge if it is, or there's no need to explain it and translate it for normal people. And I think I'm a long-time member of the Committee on Budgets, taxes, and all these areas are not strangers to me, but I really didn't understand you, and what you're doing here, how you're poking around, who's really supposed to - now I don't want to say it, I've been warned once - who's just bigger than that - needs to be explained, and I'm glad that my colleague Juchelka translated it into Czech, and we understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u95	Thank you, honourable Member. Another, with a factual remark, is Mr Aleš Juchelka. So far, there's no further de facto. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u96	Thank you very much. Speaking of the various amendments, I am still waiting here all afternoon for the chairman of the pirate party club Jakub Michálek, through you, Mr President, and that he will tell us something about their amendment, because I would like to talk about whether the retroactivity that everyone is really talking about is going to be okay, when we are going to do our best to tax energy companies back in some way and the next in 2022. So I would like to call on Mr Michálek to present to us his amendment, which is why this morning...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u97	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt. Let us stick to the factual point, because we are now outside the scope of the factual point. You can then take the floor and discuss it in the general debate, but you should respond to your previous speaker in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u98	Thank you, I understand, I understand, I challenge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u99	Thank you. We've exhausted all the factual points. President Michálek is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u100	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, sometimes you just have to let time pass and you will see. So tonight's point. Of course, he writes us a lot of castings. People who work in industries that are dependent on energy write to us people who are dependent on helping the state to cope with the crisis, fruit farmers, doctors who prepare for winter, households who drown in gas, electricity and so on. So providing for help to households and companies is the key thing we're talking about today. We've already approved the contribution to the families, we've approved the austerity tariff, and even now the households are supposed to see it on their electricity bills. This is the thing that we proposed in February, I am glad that we managed to bring it to an end. And if we want to have a responsible conversation, of course we have to say where to take the money, because I don't know how the other parties do, but we certainly don't want to pay it all on debt, the whole energy crisis, when some today have record profits because of the war and the energy crisis, we don't even want to take that money for further household and economic taxation. We, of course, planned to be much more generous in discussing this proposal, to focus on areas where we have not yet managed to promote help for households. We had a proposal prepared to help families today who are facing high prices in vegetable stores and so on, and they are going shopping today to Poland and abroad, and it is because we have too high taxes in this area. But in the end, as a coalition, we have agreed precisely with regard to stability that all amendments that do not concern windfall tax, that we will work together and we will read them next year when taxes are changed, so we have retreated in this area. Of course, when we are in an energy crisis, banks and energy companies must be solidarity. And I wanted to appreciate our colleagues from the opposition, and that this has been said many times, I also wanted to appreciate colleagues from the ANO movement that they supported the principle of tax on unexpected profits. It is an important instrument that we as pirát proposed in May of this year. It could have been chosen since October, as we suggested, by which we would have one quarter for good, but what we can do, the situation is difficult, process the proposal, negotiate it, and so on it took some time, so now I am glad that at least we have it here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[17.40 hours]] Moreover, if we were to process further and further analyses - we obviously requested some background information, but if a rigorous regulatory impact assessment were to be made, we certainly would not be able to approve the proposal so that it would apply from 1. 1st next year, we would cause even more chaos. So, on the contrary, it was very responsible from the government that it acted quickly so that the bill would apply from next year. The only thing we're worried about and what's the big question for us is whether we're really going to be able to raise the money we have drawn in the next year's budget. The problem is complex, let's not pretend that anybody can come up with a smarter one and come up with a solution that's exactly what tax returns are going to look like. We are in a situation where tax revenues will, of course, depend on the behaviour of those who are taxed. Of course, they will look for ways to optimize the tax to pay as little as possible, taking something at the same time to make it look like they're doing something. There is no guaranteed model. So, of course, as a government in this difficult situation, we are discussing how to properly set the parameters of the whole model. Everyone sitting here, we know how banks behave today. Some banks are decent, but other banks have very small interest rates and make record money at 7% interest by saving money overnight at the Czech National Bank and making over 100 billion crowns. That's the money they have when they're going, so they're supposed to go to our savers and not keep it in their pockets and take it out on dividends abroad. We know how banks behave. As regards, for example, the National Fund, where they promised to send money for projects that would help our citizens, infrastructure and so on, to date exactly zero projects have been approved and implemented. We know how the banks behaved. When they were to voluntarily deal with the state, they sent a proposal not for what they voluntarily gave as a solidarity contribution to helping households, companies, the infrastructure that the state is building, but of course they only came up with a loan on terms that are beneficial only for those banks. So in a situation like this, we're here. We're in a situation where banks will undoubtedly be any - let's just say, right - whatever tax we have here will optimize using credit reserves, using IT spending, marketing, I don't know, a fleet. They will, of course, take advantage of the possibility of accelerated depreciation, transactions with mothers. We have approved the government's programming statement and promised that this is what we want to focus on the transactions and optimizations. This is a matter that we have been discussing with the Minister of Finance, and we have it in the programming statement. This is what we must say in this debate, in order to actually collect the money we have drawn. These, let's say, discussion circuits on this proposal include three topics. The first topic is when the tax will start if it starts in 2022, 2023. This was the debate we had in the coalition, and the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government was drawn up on this. It is a constitutional issue, so it should be addressed mainly by constitutional lawyers, and in the Legislative Council of the Government we have many professors for this field, many experts. Perhaps, with the exception of the highest courts in this country, I think they are the best experts we have at our disposal. They reached the prevailing conclusion, not 100%, but the prevailing view that the introduction of the tax has been possible since 2022 in those exceptional conditions. We have several precedents to refer to. It's all in that position, and we wanted to be correct, so we sent that opinion to our opponents, too, so they knew how the situation is legislatively. We had a debate on this, but there was a very strong appeal in the debate from the Prime Minister, so that we would not start the tax since 2022. This has been done at a broader level with budgetary experts, and the parties' chairmen's meetings have taken place. That is why we have decided to retreat in this and the proposal for a start this year, in 2022, we will not be reading at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The second question concerns the tax rate. Our proposal was based on the Lafferův curve, that the tax cannot be set at an amount that is more or less at 80 percent very demotivative and will lead those companies to optimization. Of course, they can't optimize everything, that would be too obvious, but of course, the bigger the tax rate, the more motivation for it, to deviate from it. Our proposal was conceived as a whole. If we were to load the start from 2022, we were willing to reduce the tax rate from a total of 79 % to approximately 20 percent to a lower level. However, since we agreed not to load a faster start, we will not even load a reduction in the rate. I suppose that some such proposals may fall, maybe someone will read them, and that can be discussed further. What is important is that we really have unity in the functioning of the Specialised Financial Office and have been strengthened, and the taxes actually collected, so that we do not meet here in a few years, that the return was significantly lower and that, on the contrary, a large part of the money was paid to foreign mothers in France, Austria, to other states owned by our banks. Yes, it's okay, they own those banks, they're entitled to a dividend, but at the same time we have to set our own rules so that there are really equal conditions for paying taxes and that whoever has better options for optimization can't abuse them at the expense of the whole system. So that's the rate. The last question left to solve is the limits. We assumed that we would consider it conceptual that the conditions in the banking market should be as equal as possible, so that the limits would include an overwhelming part of the market so that, from a rather low point of view, the test would be carried out, which meets the conditions for the tax on unexpected profits, which of the banks falls under it or does not fall under it. That is why we thought that the limit of CZK 6 billion of the decisive income proposed by the Minister of Finance's amendment was rather high, because it really only includes the six largest banks. We believe that legislation - and draws attention to this also to the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government - should be designed in such a way that it does the same for each of the entities that meet similar conditions. So far, we're not quite finding that adequate justification. There we would like to read in a detailed debate an amendment that will reduce the amount. We propose that we use the already distinguishing criterion that our legislation knows or is contained in the rest of the law, or that we base on either the limit of CZK 2 billion, which is already established as a decisive income for entities in the energy sector, or choose the limit of CZK 3 billion, which corresponds to the limit of the medium-sized bank, which is more or less operated in legislation and the regulator according to the balance sheet total of individual banks. So these are the two options that we're going to load under the reduction limit, so that the banking market is equal and that the really overwhelming part of the banking sector is involved in the higher costs that we have in connection with the energy crisis. After all, all these entities still have much higher incomes today due to the fact that the Czech National Bank pays such high interest rates according to high interest rates. On the contrary, I want to stand up for governments in that it was not really possible to process an assessment of the effects of regulation. If we were to process a completely regular assessment of the effects of regulation, we would have put forward the proposal much later. I believe the opposite is true. We're already late, we should've had it from October, we could've collected the money from October, and we could've had the revenue to the state budget. Any delay in this matter would be to the detriment of the outcome. [[17.50 hours]] In the last part of my performance only very briefly. I wanted to stand up for my colleague Olga Richterová and other colleagues who are criticized in connection with exchange rate fluctuations. Indeed, it should be the rule that information concerning government will be given to the public on time, receive it truthfully, and that where we all have to sprinkle ashes on our heads - it should not be that the position should be reversed. Here we have reached an agreement, we have reached it after rather difficult negotiations, and that is why I say here, only after I have spoken to the Minister of Finance about it, no journalists have heard it before you, so that really access to the information is fair for everyone. There's no way we can do politics - that's another thing - I don't want us to come out here from doing stock market policy. We are sovereign countries, we do not rule according to the stock exchange, we are accountable to our voters, and that is why we have the right to say our political views, we have the right to present coalition agreements, and not according to the fact that any decision is unpopular or any decision will trigger a reduction in the prices of an entity on the stock exchange. But it is a tax decision, and that is part of the sovereign policy of the state. I hope we all agree on that. The second thing, as I said, is that we also want our political views and we will present more so as to present the government's agreement, and where there is no need for us not to really send signals that can be misleading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have some factual points here. Mrs Berenika Peštová is the first to sign up, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Aleš Juchelka and Mrs Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In any case, I must respond to Mr Michálek. It's like, how would I put it... Most of the time, you're more on Twitter or some social media. I'm happy to take advantage of the fact that you're right here. I'm going to free myself from this great site of yours that doesn't work, the Open House, when you said how transparent you're going to be and you're going to give people these laws to see them, and not just those who are in proper commentary proceedings, but that's why the Open House, that there's going to be a lot more commenting places. It's not working. In any case, I'd rather lean towards what you've always blamed the ruling coalition, the current opposition, the impact study, the RIA that you're saying right now, that actually this ruling coalition that you're part of, so you're actually telling them that you're condoning it. You are condoning the fact that there is no impact study being processed when we are talking about an amendment worth 85 billion - 85 billion! And you're saying there's no need for that. You forgive the fact that there are amendments to the amendments. You've got to be kidding me. I remember your performances when you were here spitting up and screaming that there's no way the pirát would ever let go, and now you're saying that you're okay with it, that you're okay with it at all? You've got to be kidding me, right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u103	Thank you. It is also signed up with Mr Nacher in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u104	I've only got 12 seconds left, okay? Or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u105	No, I'm gonna-- I'm gonna-- Don't worry. [[It sets the time for a factual remark.]] Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u106	I'd like to respond to my colleague Michálek. He's changed the causality as it goes. No one's asking you to respond to the exchange rate developments. We're here to ask you not to influence these courses with your statements. It's the other way around. Because this, this means the announcement that something will be taxed backwards, that means this year, to announce it at the end of October, at the end of the tenth month, that someone will be taxed, is essential information for companies listed on the stock exchange. And when it goes off in the morning, the finance minister will deny it this afternoon, he'll say no, that it will be from 2023, and you insist on it the next day, so it's just essential information for the development of some shares. So this is your communication error, my colleague, through the Vice-President, not that someone wants you to make your decisions and proposals affected by the Prague Stock Exchange. No - you do not influence the stock exchange by launching something that is not agreed. It's very simple. And when it's in the future, it's the proposals that can still be understood, but you said in the media that something that's almost over that year is going to be taxed, so it's retroactivity. So just so we don't push it, the causality is like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u107	Thank you. Furthermore, Mr Aleš Juchelka's point of view. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u108	Thank you very much. On the contrary, I think that the state is here to paint a fair playground, a predictable playground, a playground with clear rules, and not the fact that politicians here are going to say that we are not actually going to behave here according to the way the Prague Stock Exchange rises or falls when we can influence it. On the contrary, we are supposed to be the servants who draw this clear, predictable and fair playground here. Then why did it all come about? It's very simple, it's childish, it's just because someone who leaves the door of a coalition meeting and puts it on Twitter gets as many hearts as possible, and that's the point. Whoever has more hearts on Twitter is the better politician. That's why it came about. Likes!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u109	Thank you for another point of fact, and another entry is made by President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you, Mr. Chairman Michálek, through the Vice-President, for the coalition window. We have a little bit of insight into your coalition kitchen, and we're glad that we could be on live coverage here, that you're a little short of the contradictions, that you already have one or two of those three or four, I think. Well, it's a good thing we helped a little bit, thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you, that was a round of applause for President Michálek. Seriously, Mr. Chairman Michálek, through the Vice-President. Well, we don't ask anyone to follow your decision on the stock market, but no decision has been made. It was just, uh, sorry about the folk expression, the slapping, and the slapping cost the firm 31 billion. And I'm saying again, was it stupid, or was it intent? And I'm saying again, maybe it would be good if the authorities looked at who was shopping at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u111	Thank you and with the de facto President Michálek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. That this bill is being discussed quickly and that you didn't have time to prepare... Yes, it's discussed quickly. In times of crisis, I think the government should act quickly. I remember the way we discussed the pandemic law here. That's what we were sitting here until the party leaders and party representatives agreed to deal with it at night, and that same night it was still written on the knee. We've adapted, we've been ready, we've studied it, we've prepared proposals. Yes, we have a crisis here. Unfortunately, we need to act quickly. As for the matter of preparing the proposal, the situation was that we made some kind of agreement on the coalition body, then the agreement changed, the agreement is different. Yes, if there are new circumstances, even the coalition can change its agreement. And the last mention, it really made me laugh, that the sayings cost companies 31 billion. So the companies, the CEZ, lost 31 billion? The CEZ? It was the price of the shares, and the company can't own 100 percent of its shares. Then make your own peace. Nobody's lost any 31 billion here. [[18.00 hours]] The amounts that were traded on the stock exchange at that time are in the order of tens of millions of crowns. If anyone has speculated on a decline, if you have any information that someone has abused information in trade, please make an announcement, it must be investigated. I'm in favour of it being supported, but I don't know anything about it, and I can put my hand in the fire for not having any of us do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u113	Thank you. Do we have a factual one here? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So now I am having a wonderful time - did I understand correctly that the Minister of Finance Stanjura, who did not keep his word because he promised and then left and did not keep it? Well, that's the first thing. And the second thing, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, did not quite listen to what was said to him. Here it was said about the so-called spike, that's the swing of the price. And yet, even if it were in tens of millions, as you say, there are a lot of small shareholders who control the increase and the decline of the stock and automatically sell out at a decline of 10 to 15 percent of the share. Someone's gonna buy it, but he lost 15 percent at the time if you knew how the stock market works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u115	Thank you. I apologize to Mr Králíček, who was here with the facts before. You want to get out? [[It gestulates that it doesn't.]] No, so another one signed up for action is Mrs Peštová, then Mr Mašek and then Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u116	Even Mr. Michálek. I listened to you very carefully, you said that the club presidents met in the past period and that you were driving it at that rate too. But this time the club presidents didn't meet, this time it was like 21. 10. This means on Friday - now I do not know if you are receiving signals on your phone, Mr Member, through Mr President - it was inserted into the system on Friday and we have only just got there on that Friday. And those amendments - you put the amendment there an hour and a half after it was inserted into the system. Can you tell me how we, as the opposition, have at this point, when we have Friday, we have Monday or Saturday, Sunday, and we have to respond by making an amendment to something that was inserted into the system on Friday? You think we have an army of lawyers behind us to do this? Or how do you do it? Or how do we do it? First of all. But you didn't answer my question at all. I'm interested in why you left your rhetoric that there's no need for impact studies anymore when you've been saying that all along. And now all of a sudden for an 85 billion amendment, and it leaves you cold.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u117	Thank you. Mr Mašek, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u118	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to see President Michálek, through you - you have said here that you have actually proposed a solution to taxes on disproportionate profits since spring. If that were true, you would certainly prepare honestly for this in the five-calice government, you would calculate the variations, whether 20 percent, 40 percent of the limit, 60 percent of the taxation, whether 2022 or 2023, and not now, completely unprepared, they went out with this and adjusted it differently by the changelings. I think it's absolute unpreparedness, and it's 85 billion, which is hard to imagine, dealing with a changeling. That's been dropped over and over again. And at your call that someone should file a criminal report on whether he suspects, so one of the rules for law enforcement authorities is that they're monitoring public resources, the public sources were calling for it, this is where it repeatedly fell on the microphone, and I'm convinced that the law enforcement authorities are going to deal with it, and if there are any links to the fact that it would be an interrogation somewhere higher, that it might even be a planned information that someone was ready to respond to immediately, then of course it will show. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u119	Thank you. Now with Mr Nacher in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u120	I'll take the liberty of commenting on my colleague Michálek. First of all, who said 31 billion? Someone said 31 billion on the microphone? [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting with the following words: me.]] 31 billion. I'll tell you, the basic problem is because I thought my colleague Michálek responded to me, I didn't say 31 billion, nor did my colleague Juchelka, but well, the problem was, as my colleague Kubíček said, in the spike. And with that spike, if you, my colleague, through the Vice-President, ever did it, you don't just sell it manually, you have machines set up there, when it drops or increases, so it automatically sells, buys and so on. And at that point, it could have been a real shame to someone because of that. So I didn't say that someone would lose $31 billion, because the next day, the swing turned almost back - I'm not saying that I'm quite, but almost, I have to look at the share now - but by saying that you're fluctuating the real Prague Stock Exchange and the companies that are listed on it. I just don't think that's funny. That means we're not saying anything but you and the Treasury Secretary have to pre-negotiate it before you tweet. It seems quite unusual to me that one of the coalitions, the smallest subject, will actually give the most important information on Twitter, which I think the finance minister should communicate. It's that some tax is measured, or it's considered, and it's backwards, and that's what this whole thing is all about. And the fact that this has changed three times since then is not the problem of the opposition, but your problem. And I'm willing to show you the tweets as they were behind me: first, that the tax will be backwards, then the finance minister, that it won't be, then you insist that it will be, and now that I've asked the minister and you haven't been here in the hall, I've got the impression that he won't be backwards. So that's a triple change. Well, figure it out between you two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u121	Thank you. This has exhausted all factual remarks, so we can move on to another duly registered one, this is Mrs Berenika Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u122	Thank you for the floor. I have announced here that I will not be able to read what has been sent by the Chemical Industry Association to Mr Stanjura's Finance Minister - I will not repeat what has been said here, this means that there has not been a proper legislative process, they have not been able to comment on it, but in any case I am appealing that they have not yet been answered - with the fact that, of course, a similar letter has then been sent to individual Members, or at least to the club presidents, to advance it to their Members, and it has already been supplemented by another argument precisely because it came out on Friday or was put into the system on Friday of the amending proposal which addressed this. So: "Dear Minister, let me contact you on behalf of the Association of Chemical Industry of the Czech Republic in connection with the proposal for an amendment to the Income Tax Act related to taxation, so-called tax on unexpected profits, hereinafter referred to as an amendment. The explanatory memorandum to the amendment states that the tax on unexpected profits is to be applied to sectors in which there is an increase in excessive or unexpected profits due to extreme factors independent of the taxpayer's business behaviour during the period of application. The relevant sectors are listed in § 17 para. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (c) which is added to the Income Tax Act by means of an amendment. The reasoned report on the amendment also states that the amendment is intended to translate into the legal order of the Czech Republic a solidarity contribution from excessive profits from certain activities under Regulation No. 2022/1854, about intervention in an emergency, in order to address high energy prices. The association of the chemical industry of the Czech Republic as a rooftop association of entities active in the chemical industry of the Czech Republic has a reasonable concern that the current proposal of the amendment is not in line with the objectives of the regulation, and also leads to clearly unintended negative impacts on many members of the Association of Chemical Industry of the Czech Republic. [[18.10 hours]] Article 2 (1) (a) II. Point 17 states, in the context of the definition of the entities concerned, that at least 75 per cent of their turnover must be generated from those selected activities. However, the proposed amendment regulation did not adopt this definition with the argument that there is a very administratively burdensome measure that does not have a fundamental economic justification. We believe that this reasoning is neither correct nor reasonable. Moreover, the amendment extends the list of sectors specified in the Regulation to other sectors such as electricity generation and distribution, etc. If the amendment were adopted in the proposed text, its impact, according to the assessment of the Association of Chemical Industry of the Czech Republic, will be fundamentally and unfoundedly negative for a number of taxpayers whose main activity, the subject matter of the business is in no way related to the decisive activities specified in the amendment, and not at all to the decisive activities specified in the Regulation. As an example, I refer to a group of companies in the chemical or other energy-intensive industry, which also have production energy sources within their production plant. Similarly, groups of undertakings in the area of primary agricultural production and transport undertakings, where fuel sales are normally made, may be the case. In the current version of the amendment, these undertakings can comprehensively fulfil the definition of an unexpected income group of undertakings. At the level of individual taxpayers, a proposal for an amendment leads to a situation where, for example, a producer of chemicals with revenues in the order of several billion crowns will have to apply a tax on unexpected profits to its entire tax base, albeit lower than in previous periods, only because it has carried out the sale of electricity to third parties operating on the premises, but not members of the group, in the order of millions of crowns. This is certainly not the purpose pursued by the regulation, and it is not justified in any way to pursue such an objective, whether intentionally or accidentally, in the Czech Republic. It should also be taken into account that many manufacturing companies have natural gas-based energy sources, so these companies would be financially affected at least twice. These companies have had to deal hard with high gas prices for several months, and they would have to pay from unexpected profits, which would be a very discriminatory measure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 Paragraph 17c of the amendment proposal, we add that the text of this provision, which works in relation to the taxpayer with the term "the same group of enterprises under the law governing international cooperation in tax administration," is not in line with what the comment in that provision mentions in relation to a group of enterprises with unexpected profits, which are not identical concepts. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 as proposed in its text is already causing interpretation problems. From the above, it is clear that the current wording of the amendment can very sensitively affect taxpayers' income, which is used to ensure a return in the past or currently realised investment projects, mainly from sectors other than those to which the proposed adjustment is intended to aim. This impact of the amendment is considered by the Association of the Chemical Industry of the Czech Republic to be conceptually completely incorrect and counterproductive as a result, including in view of a number of investment projects that have been implemented with previous support from the State or the European Union. We would like to ask you to consider our comments and to amend the proposed amendments accordingly. At the same time, let me politely ask you to pay the utmost attention to the matter, even with regard to the current page of the proposed amendment. Thank you in advance for your time and feedback. Please do not hesitate to contact me at any time in case of any follow-up effects." And here's where the mistake happened. The chemical industry union sent in, but no one answered. That's why the debate is being held here, and I believe, because of course the time was very short and because it was put into the system 21. 10th, which is Friday last week, and today we have Monday, so I believe that one of those amendments that goes to Minister Stanjura's amendment addresses this. [[Tuesday?]] And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u123	Thank you. Please add another one to the debate, and this is Mrs Lucie Šafránková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u124	Thank you for your word. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me briefly to present three amendments to the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act for the SPD movement. As a general rule, the SPD promotes an increase in the income limit for the possibility of entering the self-employed person into the flat-rate tax regime, as we support businessmen. However, we cannot agree with the government's content and implementation of this adjustment. In particular, we reject the division of this flat-rate tax scheme into three tax zones differing dramatically from the amount of flat-rate tax paid or advances on it. For this reason, I want my first amendment, which is House Document No 1079, to leave in the law only an increase in the limit of annual income of the CFI for entry into the flat-rate tax regime without further division into different tax zones, and I also propose that all provisions relating to the introduction of tax zones under the flat-rate tax regime of the CFI be deleted from the draft law. The government proposal to amend the flat-rate tax scheme for traders in the form presented is administratively demanding and unfair. In particular, it's the tax zones. The first band is to be valid for annual revenues up to CZK 1 million, the second from CZK 1 to CZK 1.5 million and the third from CZK 1.5 to CZK 2 million. Moreover, these bands are complicatedly linked to so-called spending flats according to the type of business, so there would be many exceptions. Next year, according to the government proposal, the amount of flat-rate tax, which is income tax, health and social insurance in the first band of CZK 6,500 per month, would amount to CZK 16,000 per month in the second band and even CZK 26,000 per month in the third band. Let me just give you a little example. A trader with an annual income of CZK 1 million would pay CZK 78 000 for one year per flat-rate tax, his colleague with an annual income of CZK 1,000 001 would pay CZK 192 000 on this tax for the same period - the difference in annual income of CZK 1, the difference in tax of CZK 114 000. [[18.20 hours]] The justification and reason for the existence of a flat-rate tax scheme lies mainly in its simplicity and fairness. By increasing the limit of annual income and the current introduction of three tax zones of flat-rate tax with huge differences in the amount of tax duty, all its interest and attractiveness for many tradesmen with annual income above CZK 1 million annually falls. According to the SPD, it has one purpose: to increase the limit of annual income for the right to enter the flat-rate tax regime to CZK 2 million per year and to leave one single amount of this tax for all its entitled payers. The other two amendments concern the adjustment of the flat-rate tax in the second and third zones. As regards the adjustment of the amount of the advance on income tax itself, the government proposes CZK 100 per month for the first band, 963 for the second band and CZK 9,320 per month for the third. We consider these differences to be unacceptablely high. In the amendment under the number of the House document 1080, I therefore propose setting the amount of income tax advances for the CFI in the second band to CZK 600 per month and in the third band to CZK 1,100 per month and in the amendment under the number of the House document 1081, I propose a second alternative adjustment of the amount of income tax advances for the CFI in the second band to CZK 1,100 per month and in the third band to CZK 2,100 per month. Thank you for your attention and for your future support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u125	Thank you, and another duly applied for is Mr Karel Haas. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u126	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, fellow Members of the Council. I in this - and completely legitimately - will try to speak with a few comments rather one-sided critical tone. I believe they'll be material. Traditionally, as you may have become accustomed to Haas, I will refer to specific caselaw, specific legislation, and I will try to speak with five comments that will go against today's current. At the same time, I believe that these remarks will disprove some of the concerns that have been raised here in these critical - and I am not angry at all - critical contributions. First remark. Several times here today there was a concern that Zbyněk Stanjura's amendment to a fellow Member first was not a so-called illegal non-constitutional label. Here is my first reference to the very specific case law of the Constitutional Court. Adhesive case law is relatively stable in the Czech Republic. I will refer to two key decisions of the Constitutional Court, both decisions having the character of a plenary finding. The first is a plenary finding 21/01, the second is a plenary finding 77/06. I am always trying to translate this lawyer into human language, so please, an illegal label is such an amendment which does not correspond entirely to the substance of the original draft law to which the amendment is headed. In other words, and I think it has fallen quite clearly here, we are discussing the bill amending the Value Added Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's amendment, through Mr President, is heading right into the area of direct taxes, in the area of income taxes, so with reference to these two plenary findings of the Constitutional Court, I want to calm - and it is legitimate, those questions - I want to calm down that this really should not be an illegal sticker on this matter. That's note number one. Note number two: criticism fell here at the time of the amendment. I want to stress that the EU Council regulation is from 6 October this year. Today, if I look at the calendar, 25 October, that is 19 days after we have an effective published EU regulation at European Union level, it is 6 October of this year. The two measures, European ones, resulting from the EU Council regulations, and the national ones in the tax area - which I will get to in a moment in note number three - are undoubtedly financially linked together. They are from two different areas, I will stress this in a moment, but logically the final form of the Czech, and I stress, tax windfall tax, not windfall, perhaps as seen at the level of the different Member States of the European Union, could not have been presented until the precise parameters of the European regulation were known, because the two things are simply correlated. In other words, there could not have been a calculation of the Czech national tax solution until it was known, published - and officially published - the parameters of the European solution. I really wanted to point out here that when this is a European solution, I stress, on October 6, 2022, which means we are 19 days after the European solution. Note number three: that's what I've already eaten a little bit. Here in the case of several previous speakers, I do not need to personally identify it, for several previous speakers, there has been a mix-up of what is regulated by the European regulation and how the European regulation relates to our national regulation, which we are discussing today. Here I want to stress: Please, the EU Council regulation is not and cannot be in the tax area for two basic reasons at all. Firstly, the area of direct taxation is not harmonised at European Union level, so that the European regulations, if the Council or the Commission wanted to regulate this area by regulation, go beyond their competence. The area of direct taxation is not harmonised at EU level. After all, even explicitly - for those of you who want to look it up, I always try to really guide you to quite specific documents and resources - Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Council's regulation explicitly states and explicitly states that the European solution stands alongside the national systems in the area of taxation, alongside them. What also solves the European solution? It solves the ceiling on revenue, revenue from electricity generation, that's the first part, and solves the solidarity contribution. Then, of course, they solve compulsory savings and so on, but these are the two dominant, although financial areas, but in the field of energy and not in the area of taxes. Fourth: they have fallen here - and in that I think we are even overlapping across the House, and I share the concerns - there have been concerns about potential retroactivity. Three comments on retroactivity. First, thank you. The Minister is here for fellow pirát, and I appreciate the decision of the Pirates' MP who didn't add up, precisely because of the concerns that we share and which we are discussing as much as possible, precisely because of the legal concerns that I would say to our country's constitutional principles, so that decision, which, through the President, the President, the President of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek, told the House, will not be read to the pirát, which really, let's say, the risk of any retroactivity has shifted significantly in some way. We can say that Zbyněk Stanjura's amendment does not contain any retroactivity, either directly or indirectly, in its content. In other words, the fear of potential retroactivity is odd here, because neither direct nor indirect retroactivity is contained in the content of the proposal. That's note number four. And the last note number five: this concerns the questions that fell to the RUD here, that is the amended § 21 and the newly inserted paragraph. 5. The proposal constructs tax on excessive profits as a separate tax. This may be legal - but I understand that it is not yet factual, I will get to that material reason in a moment - that is the legal reason why this separate tax is not subject to the budgetary determination of taxes. And I point out, that's the purely legal reason. It's a separate tax that's not included in the RUD, so it's just not part of the RUD. [[18.30 hours]] But the factual reason, and I think the questions were pointing to the factual reason, is, please, quite clear. Here, clearly from a fellow Member, from the Minister, through the President, what the government wants to use the revenue we are dealing with in this amendment has fallen: only and only for extraordinary expenditures related to the rise in the price of energy. The extraordinary expenses will lie primarily in what? It is necessary to combine the legislation of this country. Well, primarily, they'll be in compensation for ceiling energy prices. After the energy price ceiling, I assume most of this House called. And who, among other things, will be one of the most important beneficiaries of the energy price ceiling? If you read the personal scope of the Czech Government's regulation to stop energy prices, one of the most important beneficiaries of the energy price ceiling will be municipalities, codes... or I will say entities in RES under code 13 000 and so on, as those contracting authorities are defined. In other words, it makes sense here: the extraordinary expenses that will be covered by these extraordinary revenues will be spent on the government side, not on the munitions side, not on the municipalities side, not on the regions side. Conversely, municipalities and regions and their established organisations will be beneficiaries of the energy price cap. I refer to the Czech Government's ceiling regulation of 7 October this year and to the paragraph, I will now say it in my head, I think 3 which defines the personal scope of the Government's ceiling regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u127	Thank you and we have one factual one, and this is Mr. Jiří Mašek, and then another factual one jumped in and this is Mr. Aleš Juchelka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u128	Mr Vice-President, with great respect for Dr Haas, whom I respect very much as a lawyer, I dare say something as an unlawyer. First of all, you've justified five points here, I don't have a big problem with that. You have justified the label, the time of submission, but I would no longer agree - here you have argued that the European Union does not harmonise direct taxes, and in this case it is a matter for the individual Member States, so I think there was no reason not to have it properly prepared. We just had time to calculate the variants of the individual, to present it, and to discuss it in some way, whereas here it actually seems to be within the five-calice framework that they are drawn from the hat, and it also needs to be the same retroactivity in the Pirates, so it seems to be a bad impression that it's about 85 billion. So that's what I think is important. And the important thing is that these regions should be concerned, because the regions would also be concerned with the energy, but forgive me, in the sense that even those regions can still intervene specifically towards certain subjects, because even in those regions it is equally set. This does not mean that some entities established by the region will not need special assistance, so it would also be possible for the regions and municipalities to help in a targeted way, so that the energy funds could certainly be used meaningfully. And here we basically slipped away to give nothing to the regions and municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u129	Thank you and another de facto is Mr Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u130	Thank you, I'll just follow up on my honored colleague, Mr. Jiří Mašek. Thank you very much too, Mr Haas, through Mr President, but only that time - yes, it is procedurally well, it is at second reading, but Mr Stanjura, Minister Stanjura put in 21. 10. 35-page amendment to CZK 85 billion; 21 10. it was in the system. That's what 23 followed up on. 10. which was Sunday, Mr Michálek's amendment and today we have another amendment by Mr Jakob to the same material. No one can convince me from that point of view that it was supposed to be a government bill, that it was such a big thing for society, for companies, for residents, for all of us here in the House, and not that it was going to start with a second reading. So the coincidence in time is that the amendments to the key 85-billion-dollar Minister Stanjura were last introduced today. So that's the time point with which - and the other things with you, of course, I agree, with the sticker and so on, but certainly not here with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u131	Thank you, and Minister Šalomoun has reported with fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few words about the retroactivity. It's not a problem whether retroactivity is there or not, but whether it's basically constitutionally viable or not. And let me just remind myself that the last House, too, sometimes because of the difficult situation, as President Schillerová said here, was forced to do something retroactive sometimes. Here the Act passed on some measures to mitigate the effects of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and there, on the basis of the amendment, the possibility of loading some contractual penalties was suspended in the same period, which could be so negatively affected by some legal relations and also there was retroactivity. So I just want to point out that retroactivity has certain channels, and it has also been discussed at the Legislative Council of the Government. The view is not really dominant, but the prevailing point is that the situation we have today and the way we intend to deal with it would probably hold up with the constitutional review. However, I understand that in the end, the government took a more careful course and did not take this test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u133	Thank you, and we have one more factual one, Mrs Helena Válková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u134	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, that is indeed a factual point, because I think we all know that this retroactivity is no longer so-called in the game, so thank you for highlighting this aspect. And I think it's so good that even the proponents and the reasons why the so-called retroactivity would be carried away in such an extraordinary situation as we are now in. That's what the opposition MP says, but it's a good thing you've decided what you've decided. On the other hand, I would have liked to disagree from the speech by my colleague, Dr Haas, through you, Mr Vice-President, but it sounded basically like an analysis and criticism of those previous speakers who are going to be unable to adapt and respond to European legislation just in the light of the time that has passed. I was fast counting, too, but I didn't have the dates. On the other hand, he has already said it here, as Mr Mašek has said very modestly and humbly as an illegal, by your means, Mr Vice-President, I believe that our Rules of Procedure do not count on the situation that we are now faced with, in principle, changing the original proposal completely in parameters in a key way that I do not remember. The tax issue is not my issue, as you all know, but the consequences are really, as you are right, Mr Haas, by your means, now through the Vice-President, he said. Which is why I think the criticism is justified. [[President: Madam, time.]] Even if you have... That was supposed to be a short factual point, obviously I am not capable of it, but perhaps the essential was said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u135	Thank you, and with priority rights, is President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u136	Thank you for the floor. I was about to come up with a technical proposal, but I'm still going to respond a little bit. I guess I didn't remember everything. Well, Mr Haas, through the Vice-President, I'm sure it's true that this is a national solution. It is a direct tax, a direct tax is not harmonised with the European Union, and I hope it will never be, I have always opposed all those CCCTB and CCTB and so on, because I think the Czech Republic would have paid for it. I also know that the European solution, which no one has ever seen, which the MIT is preparing, is not a tax, it is deliberately simply a contribution or something, it is written to... it is not a levy, because the levy would also be a risk of tax, so I think that the continuity is not there, there is not such a rope. This is strictly a national solution. Otherwise, all the arguments that fell during the day - I will not repeat what our reservations are, what our problem is with the adoption, but there is still such a small sip. We'll definitely discuss the first reading of the budget tomorrow, so we'll go back to that again. What I've said before, the revenue doesn't have bows or expenses, which means there can't be a way that you can only tie that revenue to these expenses. That's income, and that's expenses, that's just no problem. So the government will have some revenue at its disposal - we'll see if it has it, because even economists doubt it very much - and it will have some expenses against it. [[18.40 hours]] As far as ammunition is concerned, I understand that there will also be beneficiaries, but I remember - and it is very similar - it is coming back to me retrospectively - on those up to the hysterical outputs of some former opposition MPs, it was behind the STAN movement in particular, who here, whatever the covid law was to help the tradesmen, just every crown - and in the Senate it was also so, also the STAN senators - had to be compensated best by a hundred percent. They were incredible fights. I have always explained: But these are your citizens. If we help them today and give them help, they're gonna pay you back in taxes, they're not gonna cancel their business, they're gonna keep going on and it's gonna come back in those shared taxes. Absolutely, absolutely not. But I'm glad that we finally did it, whether compensation for the regions, cities, municipalities, let's change the RUD, because that's why they're in surplus today, and because of that, they're not completely on their knees today, which they certainly could be. So it's just a brief reaction - I guess I didn't respond to everything, so I'm sorry. But I am now taking an hour off from the ANO club to prepare the remaining amendments or discuss them - some we already have in the system, but some we need to talk about. My colleagues and I have assessed that an hour will be enough. So, fellow Members, please come to our club at House One, and here I am calling, Mr Vice-President, to take an hour's break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u137	Thank you, and I'm declaring this recess until 7:41 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u138	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss our point, the time for a break is up. Before I give my word, I'll read my apologies. Today, from 19.41 to the end of the day, Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes for reasons of work, from 19.40 to 22 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises, from 19.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Jan Richter apologises, and from 19.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Svoboda apologizes. We are continuing the general debate, where I am registering a request for a speech, and Mr Roman Kubíček will now speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to imagine a brief amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended and some other laws, House print 254. In point 1, NACE code 35.1 Electricity production, transmission and distribution are replaced by NACE code 35.11 Electricity production. Brief justification: the aim of this amendment is to adjust the sub-parametric parameter in the draft tax on unexpected profits, in order to bring it into line with the diction of the Council Regulation 2022/1854 of 6 October 2022. The form of the European regulation in question is a compromise text and one of the achievements of the Czech Presidency. In itself, the regulation of its complexity affects three main segments of the energy market, in which it transfers solidarity in the management of the energy crisis. On the one hand, the regulation introduces mandatory consumer savings, sets an income ceiling of 180 euro per megawatt hour for energy traders, and finally introduces a solidarity contribution, or tax on unexpected profits, for fossil fuel processing operators. Mr Stanjura's proposal to introduce a tax on unexpected profits only addresses one of these three main pillars of the European regulation, namely the tax on unexpected profits. However, it applies this significantly more widely and contrary to the diction of the regulation when it introduces a three-digit NACE 35.1 code for electricity, which affects both electricity production, which, as is apparent, was remembered by the European regulation as well as transmission, distribution and trade in electricity. The electricity transmission and distribution is already a firmly regulated business in the Czech Republic with a clearly permissible profitability and therefore lacks any relevance in the discussion of 120 percent of the average revenues of recent years. Therefore, it is not only irrelevant for the proposed adjustment, but we believe that it is also false. As mentioned above, electricity trade is to be subject to an administrative ceiling and this is the maximum income of EUR 180 per megawatt hour. This makes it seem redundant. The proposed amendment to Mr Stanjura's amendment is intended to address both of these shortcomings and reduce the obligation to pay tax on unexpected profits only to sectors envisaged by the European regulation, which in electricity are energy producers - according to NACE code 35.1 Electricity production. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for this parliamentary proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another apology has arrived, from 19 o'clock on account of foreign travel, Mr Berki apologizes. And I ask, who else do you possibly report to the general debate? Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u141	Yes, I'll be brief, I promise. I would just like to briefly justify the amendment, my amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. The change is that I propose in point 2 of Section 20ba para. 3 that the period of application of the tax on unexpected profits should be the calendar year 2023. I therefore propose to shorten the period for the application of the exceptional profits tax only for the period 2023. The aim of my proposed amendment is not a self-fulfilling reduction from the unexpected extraordinary revenues of the state budget, but an effort to burden the designated undertakings and businesses in the parliamentary proposal for a period of time strictly necessary to consider the benefits of the solution as compared to the burden it will impose. The Czech Republic is in very uncertain times. After the economic recovery after the health crisis, the country and its people must cope with the war that is taking place in Ukraine, it will also affect the Czech Republic significantly. Moreover, both natural and legal persons in the Czech Republic are facing dramatic falling inflation, primarily the rise in fuel prices and, last but not least, an unprecedented rise in energy prices, where electricity export prices increased by almost 300 percent year on year in August 2022, import prices of gas by almost 440 percent. The economic and geopolitical situation is very unstable. I therefore propose to limit the proposed Minister Stanjura's tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, only for the period of the coming calendar year, to 2023, with the fact that any further economic measures and the tax burden on entities in the years following should correspond precisely to the current situation in the country. A number of institutions agree that the expected amount of extraordinary profit tax collection is highly speculative and, in view of the total amount of expected income from this source, the overall deficit is burdened with an exceptional degree of uncertainty. Now it cannot be predicted whether the sectors appointed in the amendment will generate profits or whether they will not generate extraordinary profits for businesses in other sectors or in other sectors. Such a major intervention in the private sphere, such as the exceptional taxation of the profits of business entities, should have been based on data based on the actual economic reality of the period in question. And since the parliamentary proposal does not contain the actual content of the economic impact, the so-called RIA, no one can predict what the situation will be in 2025. Therefore, my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u142	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? I do not register an application, if that is the case, I am ending the general debate. And I ask the Minister, or the rapporteur, if you want to take the final floor? I don't see interest. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have two applications registered here with priority rights. The first is the Vice-President Havlíček, followed by the Minister and the President Michálek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u143	Thank you. I'll be very quick. I sign up for Amendment 1484. This is an amendment to the legal successor, so-called, when decisive action has taken place. In other words, the amendment clearly regulates the situation in which a company which falls under the tax on unexpected profits separates an activity which is not related to a decisive activity under § 17c (1). 6. It is a measure which, in the case of the sale of a part of the company which is unrelated to the decisive activity of that part of the company, did not exceed the obligation to pay tax on unexpected profits. The proposal is fully in line with the Minister of Finance's intention to tax unexpected profits, not ordinary business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u144	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, Minister Stanjura, President Michálek will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u145	Thank you for the floor. I sign up for the amendment under number 1452. It is an amendment introducing a tax on unexpected profits. In addition to the fact that the material contains a detailed written justification, I justified this proposal in my introductory words today at the beginning of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u146	Thank you. Now, Prime Minister Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u147	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment under the number of House document 1482. These are two amendments which are tabled as alternative options for the proposal of Minister Stanjura. The basis of the proposal is to reduce the criterion of decisive income for banks to enter the system of tax on unexpected income to CZK 2, possibly CZK 3 billion. These criteria depend on the characteristics already used for energy companies or the characteristics of medium-sized banks. We believe that the proposal should cover fairly the vast part of the banking sector, not just the six proposed banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u148	Thank you. I do not register any application with prior rights, in which case we will proceed according to proper applications. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now appear, Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to apply to my three amendments, which I have already presented in the general debate. These are amendments under document numbers 1469, 1470 and 1471. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u150	Thank you, too. Mr Josef Kott will now appear and Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for this amendment, which is led as House document 1473. I explained it in detail in the general debate, explaining what was going on there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u152	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Michal Kučera, Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u153	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to sign up for my amendment, which I have put into the system under number 1476 and which I have explained in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u154	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob will now prepare Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u155	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare the amendment under the number of House document 1467. I have given a detailed explanation in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u156	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Lucie Šafránková and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for my three amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate and are under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1079, 1080 and 1081. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u158	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Marek Benda will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u159	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to sign up with many Members, who I would like to read here for a long time - a list of approximately 29 Members - to the amendment under number 1486. As I have announced in the general debate, we do not agree in any way that a sentence should be inserted in the income tax so that the tax on corporate persons is not entitled to the city, the municipality and the region, i.e. the territorial self-governing units, so that in point Y, Section 21 v para. 5 The sixth sentence completely abolishes because cities, municipalities and regions, municipalities, are entitled to this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u160	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda now and Mr Roman Kubíček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u161	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to House document 1483, which is a minor amendment to the Gaming Tax Act. This is a matter that was very unfairly approved here three years ago, where there was a dramatic increase in lotteries from 23 to 35 percent. I then sued the Constitutional Court, who didn't tell me the truth, but he said it was a lawsuit. I think, given how special it was then, that we should go back to the original solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u162	Thank you. So now, Mr Roman Kubíček, Mrs Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply from this point of view to House document 1485, which is an amendment which I have justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u164	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Alena Schillerová and Mr Jiří Havránek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u165	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am signing up for the three amendments that are included in the system that I defended during the general debate. These are amendments under 1458, 1459 and 1481. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u166	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Havránek will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u167	Thanks for the word, too. I will also apply to one amendment, which can be found in the system under number 1487. We present it with colleagues Tomáš Müller and Róbert Teleky. The amendment aims to make an adjustment to exempt commodity traders from taxation on the grounds that specialised energy commodity traders are not bound in the territory of the particular State in which they operate, as is the case with other energy companies that have tangible assets in the territory of each Member State. Thank you very much and I look forward to discussing this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u168	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u169	Thank you for the floor. Let me propose, in the context of a detailed debate, a proposal to shorten the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days. We are also assuming, after the debate with President Schillerová, that the third reading could take place next Friday so that we do not convene a meeting during the parliamentary week, where a proper period of time without change would lead us to have a meeting in the parliamentary week. We respect that many Members have long planned negotiations in their electoral regions for parliamentary weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-25-ps2021-041-05-002-010.u170	Thank you. I've registered your request to shorten the hearing period to seven days. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see an application, in which case I'm ending a detailed debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word? It's not like that. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. We will wait for the number of Members and Members to settle in the hall. [[20.00 hours]] We will now vote that the deadline for the third reading will be shortened in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 to 7 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 139, registered 118 Members, for proposal 108, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved and that we have reduced the hearing deadline to 7 days. Since we have discussed all the points and suggestions, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, by discussing this point, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
