ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u1	146. Government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by Act No. .../2022 Sb. The House Press 243/ - Shortened Act Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by the Act..., House press 43, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law were in the shortened negotiations, and I am opening a general debate on this. No one is to be included in the general debate, so I am ending the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by Act No. .../2022 Coll., House Press 243, in a short hearing." I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 88, 166 Members have been voted in, 139, no one has voted against. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am now opening a government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, House press 243. We're on short notice. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. I ask the Minister to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, let me briefly introduce the bill. It's another one of a series of laws that we're dealing with issues related to the end of the emergency. As we have all felt here in the atmosphere, the debate on the emergency situation at the last hearing, there is no political will across the Chamber of Deputies to prolong the emergency situation by 30. 6. and, therefore, in some legal regulations, we must, say, proceed to relatively rapid creativity, which will, above all, allow the regional level in this case, which I am talking about, to provide emergency accommodation in the way that this has been done. So once again and very briefly and in one sentence. The aim of the bill is to maintain the system of accommodation of Ukrainian refugees in premises provided by the region or state. Accommodation security is based on crisis government resolutions, which, of course, can only be issued at a time of emergency, which has imposed on the authorities and ministries the necessary capacities for so-called emergency accommodation and temporary emergency shelter. At the same time, it provided them with reimbursement of expenses in the form of a so-called compensation allowance for the accommodated person and night. This system has clearly proved itself. Thanks to him, the Czech Republic accommodates refugees who need assistance from the state in dignified conditions. Therefore, the proposed legislation will allow the regions, even after 30 June, to follow up smoothly on existing practices without having to fundamentally change the procedures which are already proven, i.e. several months accustomed. The Act regulates emergency accommodation as a public service provided by a specific accommodation operator on the basis of registration in electronic records. Here we will continue to use the HUMPO system. The public service covers that accommodation is not an economic activity and is not subject to obligations under the Public Procurement Act, for example. The regions will thus not be burdened by excess administration and will continue to be able to address accommodation capacities flexibly. The minutes of the capacity provided to the Region will be carried out by the Regional Authority on the basis of a public contract with the operator. The regions can follow up with a slight modification to the existing contractual procedures. The Act also automatically takes over the existing contracts with operators into the new system in transitional provisions. The law also addresses the reimbursement of accommodation expenses. These are newly regulated by the so-called flat-rate reimbursement of accommodation costs in facilities provided by the region in the range of CZK 200 to 350 per person accommodated per night. The subsidy financing of these costs by the Ministry of Finance is still envisaged from the resources of the crisis reserve. The specific amount of compensation is fixed by the Government by regulation, with a specific amount being discussed with the regions in the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. The Government's regulation will also adjust the limits of accommodation capacity for individual regions. Finally, I stress that the proposal was created in close cooperation with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic and took into account the requirements of the regions and their practical experience. As has already been said, the need for rapid adoption of this law and the entry into force before the end of the emergency situation is a reason for discussion in the legislative emergency regime. Thank you all for your excellent attention and I look forward to discussing this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u3	Thank you, Minister, for putting forward the proposal. The Security Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 243/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Martin Exner, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, most of the information has been heard here from the Minister's mouth, so the time is advanced, and I will not comment further on this. I will introduce you to the resolution of the Security Committee which he adopted today at his morning meeting: "The resolution of the Security Committee of the 14th meeting of 14 June 2022 to the Government Bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by the Act..., according to the House press number 243, when discussing in a state of legislative emergency. Committee on Security after the opening appearance of the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, Deputy Minister of Interior for the Management of the Department of Legislation, State Administration and Territorial Self-government Mgr Petr Vokáč, following the report of Martin Exner's rapporteur and the general and detailed debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill no later than 19 a.m. on 14 June 2022; IV. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's bill, the House's print number 243; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to communicate the opinion of the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies; VI. further empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments.'; And I can say that no amendments have been tabled to the Security Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u5	Thank you. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. We'll vote on it. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of us having a general debate? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 89, 165 Members were voted in, 132 voted in, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I am therefore opening a general debate in which Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has signed up with priority right. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Ministers, fellow Members, I would like to comment on this House of the Press, or the so-called Lex of Ukraine III, presented by the Ministry of the Interior, and I would first like to return a little to how we agreed to extend the emergency situation here together on 19 May. We clearly said that if Lex Ukraine II were already here, the extension of the emergency situation might not have been approved. However, the Minister of Interior has already put the Lex of Ukraine II in the system, which was dealt with by the House on 31 May, and I must say that the time has been relatively long since it was discussed in the Security Committee and in the House plenary. The truth is that the deadline for discussing this is always to be set in the committee responsible, the deadline has just been set for 31 May. But what do I mean? I mean that most people today live in the fact that lex Ukraine II, which has responded to many things that are associated with such as social tourism, or tightens up the individual conditions that we see today, and this is, for example, that if someone receives free food, accommodation, is not entitled to a humanitarian allowance, or that they have to register where they are staying within three days, they have to report it properly, and then lex Ukraine II brings that there is more control of those people, if they are on the appropriate addresses, if they are also located in the Czech Republic, so unfortunately lex Ukraine II does not apply until now and is not effective because it still hasn't been discussed by the Senate. [[19.00 hours]] And I ask, when we have a state of legislative emergency, and when the Home Secretary has a majority in the Senate, why didn't he go to those senators and ask them to discuss it at the beginning of June. We need the Lex of Ukraine II. If we're saying today that we don't want to give someone temporary protection status, then we have nothing to lean on, because until now, the Home Office has to grant that status, 30 days, and that's a very short time if he wants to look into someone, illustrate, negotiate, and so on. So if we look at the numbers, we have 373,000 people today who have obtained temporary protection status, and only 2,000 not. And I blame the Home Secretary for that, of course, that, until now, this important legislation, which has been passed here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies on 31 May, is still not valid or effective, and we need it. Everyone needs him, everybody's waiting for him. And I don't understand why it was so urgent, it was said: This must be approved on 31 May in a state of legislative emergency. And today's June 14th, and it still doesn't work. And today, the Home Secretary comes with Lex Ukraine III. He's saying again: we need to approve it quickly. Yes, because on June 30, our emergency situation is ending, and if we don't approve this regulation, they won't be able to provide the regions with accommodation, they won't be able to pay for it, and at the same time they won't be able to provide the regional assistance centres. But I really am in complete shock that the Lex Ukraine II is not valid and is not effective after so many days. I certainly welcome the fact that the current regulation was discussed very quickly with the regions that they had the opportunity to comment on it. Nevertheless, I am very concerned at the moment about what is happening within the regional assistance centres, especially one assistance centre, and this is here in Prague, which is due to end its activities tomorrow, and it is virtually unknown how it will be dealt with. I know the government approved...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down so that the Vice-President can continue calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u8	Thank you very much. I know that the government has approved by its resolution that the regions need to provide regional assistance centres in an emergency, and the Minister of the Interior saw himself today with Mr. Mayor Hřib, but practically the meeting had no result. So if there was no result, you can see how the captains respond to it. It's incompatible, so why hasn't Mayor Hřib secured the Regional Assistance Centre until the end of the emergency? Some officials said that even if they were prepared not to operate the Regional Assistance Centre, even though some said today that by the end of June - it is logical, because if it is given by the government's resolution, then everyone should follow it. At the same time, I would like to point out here that those regions and the authorities and those mayors who are in charge of all of this have not yet received a crown in the context of the regional assistance centres and all the activities they have had in connection with it. Yes, you'll oppose me, you'll say, they've got money for accommodations. And I'm telling you again, the funds they've been given have been forwarded to those who provide the accommodation, that is, pensions, hotels, cities, municipalities and so on. So I really see the House press of lex Ukraine III, which we have here today, that we will definitely support JI, because otherwise the Home Secretary would probably come up with a plan to extend the emergency situation, because there are only two options, either to extend the emergency situation or to have this on his desk. I think it might have been on the table before May 19th, and the emergency situation didn't have to be prolonged. We will certainly give an accompanying resolution, and I finally believe that the Minister of the Interior will support him today, so that the regions will receive the funds that all have spent - but they have spent much more - in connection with the refugee crisis, with securing all the regional assistance centres, already with what is happening in Prague. So I believe that today, finally, the accompanying resolution, which we are going to put forward, will encourage him to get the funds and get them as soon as possible, because he deserves them. And I'm sure you've heard my colleague here today that the regions are not missing - not only have they not received funding for the spending associated with the refugee crisis, but they also lack funds to finance social services that amount is already 4.5 billion. But it doesn't miss the captains, it misses the people who use the services. If they don't have the resources, they won't be able to do other things within the county. And I don't have to remind you that we don't just have a refugee crisis here that I keep saying, and the Home Secretary doesn't like to hear that it's not a well-managed, it's a refugee crisis, but we have an economic crisis here that nobody can solve. I assume that the Minister of the Interior will certainly respond, I would certainly like to know how the Regional Assistance Centre in Prague will be dealt with. I would like to ask him if, therefore, there will be a government resolution that was adopted in an emergency state, that the regions must ensure it, or if the Regional Assistance Centre will be operated by the Ministry of the Interior, or by the State, because he can operate the Regional Assistance Centre. And when the Lex Ukraine III is approved, that's the press we have on the table today, so if any region is no longer required to operate the regional assistance center. That is why I would be very careful about the regions, what they spend and what they do, not pay, because those regions really can say from 1 July: We will no longer run it. And if they say that, there's nothing they can do about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u9	Thank you. Next in the general debate will be Mr Koten, who will present the opinion of the SPD MP on the House press that we are currently discussing. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to poke a few moments out here from the previous speaker, through you. The conclusion, that the captains and others will not have to operate those regional assistance centres, possibly the Mayors, that can of course happen. And I'm basically seeing a couple of these looks in this novel. In fact, at the beginning of the whole law, it is said that the government can order the regions, whether the captains or the mayors, to order the regions, cities, municipalities, accommodation of incoming migrants, but even if there is no capacity for this activity in those regions or in the municipalities. [[19.10 hours]] I think that the current crisis legislation we have allows the generals, the mayors, and so on along the line to declare a state of danger, and it can actually do so on a regional level. So from this point of view, all I can see is that the powers of the government are constantly increasing to decide what will happen at the regional level, possibly in the city, in the village. We experienced it in the Highlands and with one mayor, where people were placed in certain accommodations who were called unadaptable. There was even a referendum in the village, and unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior eventually placed it there. I would like to take another step away from one of the things that has been said on the Security Committee during the negotiations, and that is, first of all, how many of these Lex Ukrainians are going to be, if we end up with a threesome or if there are more of them. So we were told by the Deputy Minister that it should be the final Lex of Ukraine, but it is not so certain. Well, what happens when these laws end 31. 3. 2023? The Minister - and I think that I hope to quote it about as much as he said there - said that we would basically be subject to European legislation. That is, whether we grant these people any permanent residences or citizenship, it will probably be decided by a directive of the European Commission or by an EU directive. I still think that at this point in time the whole migration crisis - I know it was much more comfortable for the government - but that it could have been dealt with under the asylum law. Some of the things that come from it and some of the dangers we could have eliminated in some way, because as far as asylum law is concerned, we had worked very well and treated all those events, not only towards Ukraine, but I think to all those arriving in the Czech Republic. I also asked what the ceiling for receiving refugees was, because if they were really 100 percent filled with those capacities, I can't imagine what it would do for Czech citizens. So whether it concerns education - because it was part of the previous point that we discussed - regarding accommodation capacities, regarding health care and all that will therefore flow to our citizens. Because we have learned that the utilization of some types of medical care is essentially beyond the capabilities of doctors, specialists who are actually working to the maximum. But unfortunately, to say that someone will be working at 150, 170 percent, that will, of course, not be possible for the capacitive reasons of the surgery. So here for this law, the SPD doesn't raise its hand, because we think it could be handled differently and more efficiently, because those regions, or the chieftains, or the mayors, would be able to deal with it in their own way, and so it would be more up to them and it wouldn't be up to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u11	Thank you. Another entered into the general debate is Vice Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u12	Good evening almost evening, Mr President, colleagues. I would like to come here in a specific situation with the amendment that we are proposing for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at this stage of the legislative process through me as a Member. It is not usual, but we decided to do it this way after the agreement, because the situation requires it and I do not want to come here in a week with another proposal that we would discuss in a state of legislative emergency. It is about taking a step that will follow up on the humanitarian benefits provided to people with temporary protection for a period of six months. We have said that after that time we will also deal with how to further with these people in terms of their support. We have considered options to end the humanitarian benefit and administer it in the normal social system that we have within the Czech Republic. Here I have to say, with the volume of people here, there would be a huge increase in administration and a huge increase in the need of other people we would need at the employment offices. The humanitarian benefit in the system that we set up, which is now also paired up with the Ministry of the Interior - we are able to pair these people with whether these people are at the given address, if they are in the Czech Republic, so it seems to us most effective now to continue this principle, but with certain modifications. That is why the purpose of this amendment is to adjust the humanitarian levy so that, from the sixth month when it is provided, its amount is already changed to the values of the living minimum in the Czech Republic. So this will apply to people who came in February and asked for a humanitarian benefit, so these new conditions will apply to them from August, with the sum being CZK 4,250 for an adult and CZK 3,050 for a child. Of course, there is still the condition that this is provided only in cases where the person does not have any other income. The income ratios are being tested. At the same time, the condition we modified about two or three weeks ago. This means that if the person is provided with shelter that we pay from public budgets and, at the same time, food and basic hygiene conditions are provided, he is not entitled to the humanitarian benefit at all. So it's a step that leads again, let's say... or another adjustment goes on and some form of tightening up the conditions for a humanitarian dose, including its amount. That's what it's all about. So much for this amendment. Then, in a detailed debate, I will also sign up for a specific number. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u13	Yes, thank you. In addition, Minister Rakušan is with priority right, and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First, a more brief response to my colleague Koten. I'll take it from the end. The state of danger is clearly not enough. This is simply not enough, it is not enough to implement crisis measures at the level of the region. If we followed the crisis law, the Constitutional Court would tear down one measure at a time, and we would be in a very uncomfortable situation. That's just an opinion, I'd say, quite the professional legislation of the Ministry of the Interior. I'm not gonna comment on this anymore. Next, we don't prescribe anything to the captains of the Lex Ukraine III. On the contrary, we have heard the demands of the captains as to what the law should look like. This is not about imposing obligations as for crisis measures, but rather about giving the regions the opportunity to decide on local accommodation according to our best knowledge. That's the difference. We're not ordering any emergency measures here. It is an opportunity for regions to accommodate in those state and regional capacities as it has been so far. Response to Vice-President Vildumetzová. I regret that Mrs Vildumetzová's two-chamber Parliament is causing a shock. I'll quote her. It's causing her shock that the law hasn't been passed yet. I was on the Senate Committees today as determined by the Senate leadership. It's set them up for this week. I'm going to the Senate plenary tomorrow to discuss it. I really don't understand what the shock is caused by and what. I'm sorry to shock you with our proposals. I'll tell the Senate tomorrow that the Vice-President of the lower chamber has been exposed to an uncomfortable situation. But it was the Senate's decision and the Senate's Organizing Committee to discuss the law. Of course, we managed to cope with the crisis on the basis of older resolutions, which means processing the request within 30 days of the whole crisis. Then we'll last a few days longer. Tomorrow the Senate may approve, there were no reservations on the committees. [[19.20 hours]] Then the Vice-President here said to me several times: "You will call us. She's always a little predictable about what I'm gonna say. No, I will not say it, Madam Vice-President, through the Vice-President. We spoke to the captains today. So if you didn't talk to them again after my meeting, and you didn't convince them to do it differently, then until then, everyone told me they weren't closing down the regional assistance center. This means that regional assistance centres in individual regions remain in operation. That's the result of today's negotiations with the captains. We'll be with you from 1. 7. discuss whether it is necessary to shorten the office hours, whether it is possible to shorten the performance of the assistance centres to a smaller dimension than it was at the time of the escalation of the crisis. And that's a natural development. I would expect such a natural development in the capital city of Prague, when Mr. Mayor and I agree on the description and description of the problem. This means that Prague is the most busy region, that Prague certainly deserves relocation mechanisms. I had a meeting with the mayor yesterday. Today we held negotiations with the Mayor on the ground of meetings with the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. We have not yet found a match, and I invited the Mayor to the meeting of the Strategic Committee tomorrow, a strategic group that will present to the Mayor possible relocation mechanisms that could apply to Prague. I've done all the experiments on the timeline. But I assure you that the moment Prague decided to close the Regional Assistance Centre, the Ministry of the Interior will manage. Firstly, the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy and the Foreign Police can also grant temporary protection, which is still true. And we will ensure that possible registrations take place in other regions within the Czech Republic, in the least busy ones. We're definitely not sending anybody to the most busy parts of the country. And if the situation escalates, I would like to point out that, of course, at the time of emergency, the Ministry of Interior has the opportunity to order the regional assistance centre to operate in the capital city of Prague. It still is until the end of the emergency. So far, since the beginning of the whole crisis, I've made arrangements with all the authorities and the generals and local authorities. It wasn't always easy, sometimes it was a little conflicting, but we always agreed and we didn't have to apply any force position of the Ministry of the Interior. So I say in a calm and calm voice that so far the Regional Assistance Centre in Prague is open. I've made two attempts in the last two days, I'm gonna do one more on that strategic committee. If the Prague KACPU closes, we, as the Ministry of the Interior, are prepared to do so and we will deal with the situation with some degree of emphasis. On Friday, Mr. Mayor Hřib is still meeting with the Prime Minister. Let's see what the outcome of this meeting will be, maybe it will also bring something. But I say again, I very much appreciate the other captains for leaving their regional assistance centres in operation because I consider it natural and logical in this situation, and I do not see any added value of closed Prague's KACPU to solve the relocation mechanisms within the capital city of Prague and other regions in the context of the events. That's an opinion I say the same way. I call him the Mayor, I call him the Governor, I tell him to journalists, to the public, I tell him to you. Another point that has been made here by the Vice-President is that I will force you to agree to Lex Ukraine III, because otherwise there would have to be an emergency. I'm not gonna force you at all. It is your personal decision, it is an expression of your responsibility and it is the decision of each individual Member according to the best conscience and consciousness. But if it was once said here that the emergency situation of the Chamber of Deputies does not want after 30. 6. support, I accepted it, I heard it from the opposition and from the coalition and we prepared an ad hoc legislative solution for this. But I'm not making you decide what you want. But I want to make decisions so that the Czech Republic can cope with the migration crisis after 30. 6. I've never forced you to do anything here, and I certainly won't do it today. Of course, I ask you to support this law, because I think it is well written, it is written as the regional authorities need it, and it is more or less just accommodation, it is an effective provision of accommodation in the direction of the state and regions. And I think that every reasonable person, unless he wants an emergency, which he says in A, in B, welcomes solutions to ensure that the situation is under control and that the emergency situation doesn't work. So please every reasonable person to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u15	Thank you. Now we have a series of factual remarks. First up is Mr Juchelka, Mr králíček will be prepared. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a committee on social policy this morning, and I do not understand that we could not discuss this amendment here. It was inserted into the system at 13.58 hours. I think it was written a long time ago and it was enough just to open up a new point or a new one and we could have this amendment of the MPSV here, which has an impact, as I have read now, because we have learned about it at least in the YES movement at this time. I didn't know there was such a thing in the system because two minutes before the House started, it was just inserted into the system, so we could talk about it. And that impact is CZK 3 billion by the end of the year at 150,000 who are fleeing Putinův's aggression, and for 150,000, if we multiply it by two, which we have at this point, 300,000 refugees, it's already CZK 6 billion. Of course, we don't mind, but we don't know what to do with it now, because I didn't read it, I didn't have time to study it in any way. And I'm really sorry that there's an awful lot to say here about how it communicates and so on, and this morning there was a committee on social policy and this crucial changeling that wasn't definitely written in an hour, two, three or some way between 1:58 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., it simply wasn't discussed. Yeah, and now, at this point, I need to think about what to do about it. Maybe I'll suggest a break for our Madame President. And it really isn't like politics, but it is, but I don't know if any of the opposition colleagues in the SPD knew about it, and he's ready for it. But at this point, I can't deal with it myself, because I've heard it for the first time, even though I understand that something has to be done, of course, if we don't pay the humanitarian benefit after six months. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u17	Another, with a factual remark by Mr králíček, will be prepared by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u18	Mr President, colleagues, I would politely like to ask the Minister here why we met two weeks ago on an extraordinary or, respectively, extraordinary Security Committee, why did we discuss the Lex Ukraine II in a legislative emergency, now that he does not mind that in the Senate, in which the five-calice majority lies, it is fourteen days? So why did we meet again today on an extraordinary Security Committee? Why are we discussing this again in a legislative emergency, if it's actually okay if it's in the Senate for the next two weeks, where the five-calice has a majority again? And as for Mr Jurečka's amendment, or on an extraordinary committee, today's extraordinary committee on security, we have not discussed this proposal. We didn't know about him, and the debate would have gone a little longer and a little differently. So I agree with my colleague Juchelka, and I will also ask our President to take a break so that we can take a stand in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Another, with Mrs Peštová's point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Koten. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u20	Thank you for the floor. One part has already been said by my previous speakers, and now to the second part where I wanted to respond to the Minister about Mrs Vildumetzová or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies when you mentioned the shock. [[19.30 hours]] The shock is, she meant, and I want to stand up for it, the shock is that you're pushing something in a legislative emergency, it goes through the Chamber of Deputies, which is the lower chamber, and in the upper chamber you have most of it. And the upper chamber doesn't give it that serious. That's why she said it was a shock, because in the meantime, another Lex Ukraine III is coming again. So that's the shock for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u21	Well, thank you for explaining the shock. Mr Koten is following.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I, of course, also respond to the fact that no amendment has been made to the Committee on Security. I've been looking at the system all the time to see if anything happened. And all the more so, I was even more surprised by Mr. Jurečka here, through you, when he loaded this place. Yes, I also understand that something has to be done about it, but I'm not able to evaluate whether it's right or wrong at this point. And we haven't even read it yet, so let's see what the club requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is registered by President Schillerová, and Minister Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u24	So I'm not going to take a break yet, we need to consult at which time and for how long. So I'm sure I'll come up with it now, I've already announced that, because we have to look into it. That's a shock to us again, Minister. Otherwise, I presented several laws for the government in a legislative emergency when we were in the government, because there was a covid situation, and I always got a hearing in the Senate because I talked to them. Sometimes it was with some comments, notes, and so on, and we didn't have much of it. So maybe it's just about the communication. Otherwise, you don't want to prolong the emergency, that's what you said when you were here with the emergency. You said, "This is the last time I ask." I remember. So I don't think it's just opposition votes or coalition votes. And if this law, and we have provisionally agreed to support it, I do not know how much more amendments, whether this law will be sufficient and quality, as you say, can only be said by an independent court, and it is still too early to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u25	Thank you, too. The following is the factual comment of Minister Jurečka. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u26	Thank you. I have to say, I'm apologizing for myself to my opponents. I'm sorry, because it's coming behind me here, and I was here in my opening act explaining the reason why I put it in that system now, because, of course, we can discuss the proposal as a separate amendment, which we may be filing a week or two weeks later. We're going to have to put it somewhere in the House's meeting, which is why I agreed to record this proposal today. Yes, I was able to talk about it today on the Social Committee, but it was not the subject of the committee's agenda, nor was it the subject of the committee's deliberations. But for me, I think there's an apology here for you. Please, just consider, because I have tried to justify, I think, in simple principles, where this is directed from the point of view of tightening up, from the point of view of reducing the amount of support, and from the point of view that we have to deal in some meaningful way with the fact that if we put these people with temporary protection into the normal administrative system of social support and material emergency, I would simply need about 3,500 extra people in employment offices to be able to handle this amount of people administratively. So this request of mine is conducted purely factually, rationally, that we must find a way. And again, I'm sorry that there was no earlier communication on my part, and I could have mentioned that to the committee. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u27	Thank you. The following is the factual comment made by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Mr. Juchelka will be ready again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u28	Well, I'm sure thank you for your word. To the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: I am also certainly concerned that he may be apologizing in some way right now, but yesterday he was a central crisis crew, in some way there were signals about an amendment. I think someone could have come today, brought it to us, explained it to us. I think it's very unfair from this point of view, and we really need to talk about it right now because we don't know what the content is. On the Minister of the Interior: Mr Minister, if you don't mind that the Lex Ukraine II is not approved, which brings that you have an extended period of 60 days to give someone temporary protection status, if you don't mind that until now you don't have approved a humanitarian benefit, if someone has free food and accommodation, so they are not entitled to it, at the same time that there is a reduced health insurance for 150 days so that there is a motivation for work, so please this is still not valid and effective until now. That means it doesn't work, it doesn't work anywhere. It must be approved by the Senate and signed by the President first. I don't understand when we approved something here on May 31 - if I was a secretary, I'd go to those senators, tell them how important it is. When there's a legislative emergency, I don't need any deadlines at all. It can be approved from one day to the next. And today's June 14th, and it still doesn't work! Then tell those people! Tell them it still doesn't apply, so we're still granting temporary protection status according to the Lex of Ukraine, which was approved a few months ago and which doesn't respond at all to the problems that are both social tourism and other things. So it's unfair, what you're saying here. And I certainly didn't say - if I said so, I'm sorry - to force the approval of Lex Ukraine III. I'm saying that either Lex will be Ukraine III, or there will be an extension of the emergency. [[President: Time, Madam Vice-President.]] And that you could have come up with this a long time ago, and we didn't have to prolong the emergency at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u29	Now, another one with a point of fact, Mr Juchelka, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u30	Thank you. I just have a practical question. So if they fall into the minimum of life, that means that then, of course, they will, like everyone else, be entitled to all benefits of state social support and benefits in material distress, right? Thank you. That's practical only.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u31	Thank you. Mr Lang's point of fact follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I, too, as a member of the Security Committee, would like to refer to the fact that we had an extraordinary meeting today. What Mr. Jurečka here suggested didn't say anything. So we didn't have a chance to react to it at all, and we didn't have a chance to talk about it. In the context of everything, when we were talking about 5,000 crowns for Czech families in one-off, suddenly 6 billion, 6 billion more axes for Ukrainian refugees appear here, and the government just says, "Save it, okay? So I really don't know if we are the Parliament of the Czech Republic or if we are some kind of federal republic with Ukraine and so on. just constantly rising new and new demands on various other things for Ukrainian refugees beyond the lex Ukraine. We also discussed that when lex Ukraine ended after a year, so the Minister told us today on the Security Committee that some European legislation would be adopted. That means if these people fall into permanent residence, they actually have no reason not to leave us. Even those who do not work will fall into the social system because, as I said, 4,000 crowns of college salary, 1,500 crowns of pension. But really, jamming another 6 billion crowns, that's how you approve it here with a hundred and eight! Yes, you say here: we don't have to approve lex Ukraine. We know that. We've got 90 votes from the opposition, you've got 105 cool votes. But you could at least talk to us, and you could at least tell us the drafts you read. It would be serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u33	Thank you for keeping time. And the final point of fact, Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u34	Thank you. I would like to add to the information that it is necessary to realise that the health insurance scheme approved by those people from Ukraine, the refugees of war, will be motivated to claim as job seekers if they want to be entitled to health insurance after 150 days, as the House has adjusted. So that's one of the very strong motivations for these people to proceed fairly to that job, with the fact that we have more than 73,000 people working for us to date. So it needs to be realized that this mechanism is here. At the same time, I have tried to explain here that even if we had not taken this step, and here I am answering Mr Aleš Juchelek, through Mr President, it is not that they will be entitled to something else. It is only that the amount of humanitarian benefit will be derived from the minimum amount of living for adults and children. That means it doesn't have a rope into other parts of the social system or a system of material distress. [[19.40 hours]] And we're doing it because these people, when they already have the temporary protection regime, we wouldn't just take this step automatically by law. They will fall into a social system where they will be entitled to full opportunities, whether in the context of social support or material emergency, like any other citizen of the Czech Republic. There's no way to find another way before that. Either we open up a fully social system, or we say, "No, there's a humanitarian dose with these tightened adjusted parameters, which we can manage relatively quickly today, relatively quickly and simply. That's what this step is about, which we're dealing with this situation that's here. We can also see that the number of people asking for humanitarian benefits is falling. We have quite a decent number here for those who work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u35	Thank you, too. Another factual point, Mrs Pastuchová. He will prepare for a factual remark as another Mr Kobza. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u36	I'm sorry, I haven't been here all this time, I just wanted to ask if there was an answer to that, which is the matter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as the Labor Office, if it's settled what's going to happen with the households and solidarity contribution, and then the Minister of the Interior, by your means, because some of the pensions are staying at the IČO, the regions are writing contracts with them, maybe by the end of the year, so if you already know another solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u37	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mr Kobza. So far, the final point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u38	Thank you, Mr President, I would like, by your means, to have a question for Minister Jurečka, or for Minister Rakušan, if they are aware of the great social tensions in society that Ukraine's immigrants and refugees are being supported because they do not receive the same support, adequate support for our homeless, who are 26,000 registered, is 2,500 under 18 years of age. At the moment, when low-income groups are really high up in the trough to say it as a farmer, and lonely seniors, single mothers, single mothers, people who are handicapped in some way have real problems to survive, and now 370 000 people who get all the support, accommodation, food, support and so on will move in here. And some, and that is generally known, are not entitled to do so either, because they are citizens of Hungary, therefore members of the European Union. I want to know, Dear Government, if you know you're getting yourself into trouble, because the social tension will turn against you and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u39	Thank you. With another point of fact, Minister Jurečka is signed in, Mr Okamura Hayato will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u40	Thank you. I'm going to go back to the comment that was made here on the financial volume. By the end of August, in the explanatory memorandum it is written, there would be potential claims, if it were about 150,000 people, it would be 2.8 billion by the end of the year, with the number of people asking for humanitarian benefits decreasing. Again, I return to the fact that even the legal regime for us as the Czech Republic, when we committed ourselves to granting someone temporary legal protection, he has the right to the possibility of drawing from the social system. As far as comparison with the homeless and so on is concerned, it is not fair, because it must be said that today when a homeless person comes and asks, he gets a living allowance if he wants to get housing and gradually return to the process and have a roof over his head, so NGOs allow this, including providing basic needs, including health care. So, please, nicely, let's not compare things that are completely unfair to comparison, because even that Czech homeless man, if he wants to qualify for financial support, he has a social system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u41	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u42	I would like to remind you, dear and dear colleagues, that we are indeed in a hybrid war and every week in the east, in Ukraine, hundreds of women and men die directly in battle, die and suffer many civilians. By somehow trying to cope with this situation, we are also supporting those war refugees, mostly refugees, women and children. Late last night, I met a few of them on a tram when they were coming back from some sort of demonstration to support their country, so we're protecting ourselves. We live in a global world, I can testify as a member of a foreign committee. Yesterday and today I attended a conference on the IndoPacific, we are really connected, and by trying to support Ukrainians in this serious situation, which has not improved for several months, we are a little tired, our attention has become dull, but the situation remains equally serious. We do not want to scare our citizens, we are supposed to calm them down, but theoretically there are very serious scenarios as to how this could develop even after the war side. Russia still has nuclear weapons at its disposal. So by supporting Ukrainian war refugees, we are really protecting ourselves, even those socially weaker women and men and children in our country. And we're protecting the homeless, too. Even if it takes a little more thought to make you realize that. So let's remember that this is about security in the international environment. And let's look for a wise solution, let's look for depth, let's look for perspective. And let's maintain our humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u43	Thank you. Mr Kobza's point of fact follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u44	Thank you. I would like to respond to what Minister Jurečka said here, because I have been dealing with the issue of homelessness for quite a long time and in depth. I would like to say that the comparison is absolutely accurate, because those homeless people live outside the system, completely out of the system, they don't pay their insurance, they don't get any benefits, they feed from hand to mouth, and they're just like the person who comes here, who's completely new here, completely cut off from the system as such, or they're not connected to the system. So the comparison is exactly the same, but it's not just about them, it's about the fact that in the paper, on the Internet, there are huge amounts that have already been consumed, billions. And, of course, people who are wondering if they're gonna buy three rolls or two, or if they're gonna buy drugs or how many bulbs they can light up, they're gonna take it very badly. But in spite of all this, the question of those 26,000 homeless people still remains, and of that 2,500 teenagers who don't care about the state because, in my opinion, they don't know, and they don't even want to know, because they're out of the system. But they're people like others, and they deserve help. After all, I'm working on a project like this right now, trying to secure teeth for these people. It looks funny, but when you look into their mouths, you find that these people especially need dental care, they need prosthetics, and they don't have a way to get to it because they're out of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u45	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. We are going back to the general debate, which, however, no one is to report to anymore. I'm asking if anyone in the room is interested in a general debate? Madam President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u46	Mr. Vice-President, I'm taking an announced 20-minute break. I'll meet you at the Yes Movement Club in the akt. We must consult on this amendment. Please, I'm taking a 20-minute break to the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u47	I just want to ask, do you want those 20 minutes immediately, that is, before we open up a detailed debate? Or can we reach the law, end the second reading, whether or not amendments are made?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u48	Yes, yes, let's finish this, you're right. Let's finish this, and I'll take it after it's finished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u49	After interrupting this point. So let's not start with point 147, and in the meantime, you take a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u50	Yes, exactly, 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u51	Okay, thank you. So now I am ending the general debate because no one has applied for it. I'm asking for an interest in final words? Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's really only a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to ask you for the proposal of Lex Ukraine III. [[Aid]] Just to clarify - we are trying to get both legislative standards so that the Senate has comfortable time to discuss them in the committees, as the senators wanted, by the end of the legislative process by the end of the emergency. If we approve lex Ukraine III today, it is of course very likely that the Senate will manage - after our negotiations with the Senate leadership, which I am, because we have good relations and communication, Mr. President Vystrčil led us on the weekend - to discuss until the end of this month and from July can both legal standards apply to us. I would merely like to reassure you that at this point we can control even in those 30 days whether or not temporary protection is to be granted, we have been doing so since the beginning of our crisis. There's no danger at all. And from the start, we knew for both legislative standards that we wanted to have them approved especially before the end of the emergency. This term will be kept by the government in agreement with the Senate. Of course. Your support for this law will greatly help this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u53	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask if there's an interest in the final word from the rapporteur? It's not. We can therefore open a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting for the debate in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. I just want to update those two accompanying resolutions. This first accompanying resolution concerns what I have announced, which means funds for the regions and the capital city of Prague associated with the refugee crisis. And the second accompanying resolution, I will please bring it in writing in a moment - I thought the President was taking a break and then there will be a detailed debate, but I have it ready. The second resolution concerns the fact that we call on the Minister of the Interior to take over the KACPU in Prague if it is closed, so that it is operated by him or, respectively, the Ministry of the Interior, the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u55	Thank you. I ask that the written draft accompanying resolutions be made available to the rapporteur for the vote. And another one for the detailed debate is the Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u56	Thank you. Mr President, in the context of a detailed debate, I am calling for an amendment under House number 918. It was justified in the general debate. I don't think there's any point in me commenting on him any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u57	Thank you very much. Let me ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate on this point? If that is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Final words - I ask both the plaintiff and the rapporteur if there is any further interest? There's no interest in final words. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I am ending the second reading of this proposal and interrupting its discussion for a later period. And now, at the request of Madam President, I am declaring a 20-minute break. I'll meet you at 8:14.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-003-146.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again gathered here in the hall, and I warmly greet you. And first, I'll settle the apology. Mr Milan Feranec apologizes today between 19 and 23 hours for health reasons, then Mrs Michaela Šebelová today from 18.30 to the end of the day and Mr Jiří Mašek from 14 to 17 June for health reasons. This would settle the apology now received. And we can move on to our next point. However, before discussing the Government's draft law on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and building rules in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, the House's Press 228, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. That is why I am now opening up the debate, and I do not see anyone wishing to join the debate, which is why I am ending the debate. And so we will proceed to the vote. I will arrange for colleagues and colleagues to appear in the hall, and I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on special procedures in the area of spatial planning and building rules in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, House press 228, in a brief hearing." And now, colleagues, I am opening the vote on the resolution tabled. Who is in favour of the resolution tabled that there are conditions for discussion in the accelerated procedure? Who's against it? In the 90 vote, 167 Members and Members were enrolled, for 142, against 0. Result: this resolution was adopted. And that this proposal has been approved, so I can open the whole point. So I'm opening up a point.
