ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Sb., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, as amended /German press 174/ - first reading It is proposed to negotiate pursuant to § 90 para. 2. We have interrupted this item in the general debate on Wednesday, 6 April, at the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at the hearing of this press pursuant to § 90 para. 2 the veto has already been raised, namely by two ANO 2011 and SPD MPs. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula, who has already done so, as well as the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr Petr Bendl. We will now continue with the interrupted general debate, which Mr Josef Kott has already signed up for, so far as he is the only one who has signed up, so please continue. [[11.50 hours]] However, I have information here that the factual remark of Mrs Margita Balaštíková was interrupted when this point was interrupted at the 16th meeting, was interrupted in the course of her factual comment. I don't know if he wants to go on? He's not interested. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Members of the Government, Minister, I received two suggestions during the review of the amendment to this law which basically show that the standard as it is prepared is not quite right and that amendments need to be prepared, which will to some extent either straighten up the business environment, or we will leave it as it is today. But most importantly, it is not to withdraw from the law on the significant market power of the transnational chain, which essentially violates the unfair practices significantly. So I'm willing to give you two reactions here. The first one speaks of what is wrong in the present law, and the second one speaks of what the writer in question believes will fall away from the protection of certain suppliers within the chain of trade and, as I have already said, unfair commercial practices will continue to be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u3	Mr. Ambassador, I apologize for entering into your speech, but I would like to ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down in all parts of the hall. Thank you very much and continue, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u4	Thank you, too, Madam President. So, first of all, the proposed text of Section 3, the significant market power bands in conjunction with the proposed text of Section 3a, is essential, that is to say, the calculation of annual turnover. If the amendment passes, it will undoubtedly make the position of certain entities that are based on the incorrect assumption that these entities have negotiating power, as a result of which they can negotiate conditions in which unfair commercial practices will not be applied to them. However, this does not apply in the transnational conditions of the Czech Republic, where, for example, a large food business is not able to defend itself against unfair commercial practices in relation to the business chain. In fact, if these, even large enterprises, had the negotiating power envisaged by Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, no. 219/633 of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between businesses in the agricultural and food chain that their businesses possess certain sizes would have negotiated such conditions long ago even without the existence of a law that would have protected them. The directive represents only a minimum degree of harmonisation, since it is the consensus of the Member States of the European Union, on the one hand, those who do not register and do not need registration under national conditions, and on the other hand, those who feel the enormous impact of unfair commercial practices, particularly in the case of food producers. These are countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania and others. National legislation should therefore be such as to apply to all undertakings where unfair commercial practices take place. It can therefore be more stringent and apply to entities regardless of the achievement of turnover, this is because even large ones are not able to achieve commercial relations without unfair commercial practices. It is preferred that the legislation will apply to all entities regardless of their size, that is to all those involved in the food sector. For these reasons, there is also a risk that, if the proposed regulation applies only to the relations between large customers and small and medium-sized suppliers, the result will be that the large buyer will want to cooperate exclusively with large suppliers, thereby, of course, avoiding regulation. This may result in the destruction of small and medium-sized food suppliers, with which, due to regulation solely on the basis of retail turnover, it could cease to cooperate. The legislation would thus have the opposite effect, which aims to protect medium, small primary producers and food processors. Surely you all know that we have tried to create conditions here for regional food, regional products to reach large supermarkets, and this, as I have already described here, would certainly not have helped, and I think that this regional food could have come to nothing from our network, or to a very limited extent, and certainly not on market terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u5	I will interrupt you again, Mr. Ambassador, and ask colleagues and colleagues to move their conversations into the foyer. For example, I will ask for this especially in front of the speaker's desk. It is not possible to perform in such a rush. Thank you and please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u6	Thank you, Madam President. If the assumption that undertakings have sufficient bargaining power because of their turnover is not fulfilled, they cannot even be taken into Section 3 of the draft law, these are turnovers which will clearly determine which customers have significant market power. In such a setting of the prohibition of unfair commercial practices, for a significant part of the undertakings which are now subject to Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on the significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products, could have been affected, it happened that this was the result of the fact that they would not be affected. These are, of course, transnational trade chains, which are almost exclusively used by those commercial practices. Such a second point is that the bill, in the form in which it is presented, also means that some entities will be placed in a position of significant market power, again because of the achievement of a certain amount of turnover which will be calculated regardless of whether it is generated only from food, agricultural or other sectors. This is certainly not the purpose of the directive, either, for entities which are part of large groups whose individual turnover is small and generated from food production to be placed in the position of a customer with significant market power, but which will grow significantly by accounting for the turnover of connected undertakings whose turnover is generated in completely unrelated markets and completely incoherent activities. Those who are interested in this know that agricultural activity, because it is not a factory activity, has shattered into various portfolios, so farms have built biogas stations, they have various associated productions, where they have stabilized the sector, and in times that are not completely good for agriculture, so basically agricultural activity subsidizes and essentially preserves agricultural activity as such. [[12.00 hours]] Such a customer will automatically enter the position of a customer with significant market power with the highest turnover band of such a customer and will have to comply strictly with the law on significant market power against the supplier without delay. At the same time, the supply of agricultural products for further production has completely different commercial practices than the supply of food to the final consumer. In our terms, unfair commercial practices in the supply of agricultural products for further production are virtually absent. According to that definition, agricultural products are also products not listed in the Annex as well as EU contracts, but are processed for use as food using the substances, products or goods listed in this Annex. The third such thing is how they dealt with it in Slovakia. There they accepted the transposition of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and dealt with it by issuing Act No. 91/2019 Z. z., on unfair commercial practices in food trade. In this law, it does not solve what bands, the turnover calculations for the comparison of the turnover of the supplier, the customers, nor did they even incorporate agricultural products into this law in addition to food products, as laid down in the Directive. This law thus protects all food suppliers in Slovakia when delivering to business chains. I cannot assess whether the Slovak Republic is contrary to the European directive, but since the law has been adopted there and works in some way, I think it is probably one possible form of journey. As far as prohibited unfair practices are concerned, it is always better to have specific practices than we have in the Czech Republic, as well as more practices listed in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which is more appropriate in practice, so that it is not difficult to prove whether any practice falls under the general clause which may be the negotiation or application of contractual conditions which create a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties to the detriment of the supplier. The law is also stricter in some passages than the directive itself. For example, it explicitly states that the price is valid 20 days after delivery of the invoice, no later than 30 days after delivery. It also provides that the guaranteed price can be requested within a maximum of 60 days. And there are, of course, more such things in the directive they adopted in Slovakia. The last point in that first letter is that certain prohibited practices have also fallen out of the amendment, whose ban has proved appropriate in practice and which has worked, and is, of course, used in supplier-customer relationships, and this is, for example, the maximum time of the price guarantee - this is no longer present in the amendment to the Act on major market power. There's a three-month guarantee in the current one. So that's the first thing I wanted you to know. And now, a shorter response to why we think the protection of some food suppliers into chain stores will completely fall away from business practices. So, as a result of the transposition of Directive No 2019/663 on unfair commercial practices in the agricultural and food chain, some suppliers have lost their full protection against unfair commercial practices, unlike the existing Act No. 395/2009 Coll., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products. They are mainly suppliers of food products into chain stores. Secondly, the existing law on significant market power provided protection to all suppliers. Now the government's proposal to amend the law on significant market power does not count on protecting large suppliers, and this is due to the ceiling on the protection of suppliers on the annual turnover of EUR 350 million. The turnover is calculated for a whole group of connected persons, regardless of whether it has been achieved by selling food or other completely different products. That's what I've been trying to comment on. And I think it is really unfair to those who have expanded their portfolio of agricultural and food production. This means that suppliers who have reached the turnover of EUR 350 million will lose their protection, which is at the lowest rate of CZK 8,625 750 000. Also in the directive, the protection of suppliers is under threat, but the directive works in banning unfair commercial practices with the concept of negotiating power, that is the strength in a particular relationship between the buyer and the supplier, and also that these prohibited commercial practices can be unilaterally imposed on one trading partner to another. They may promote the unwarranted, disproportionate transfer of economic risk from one trading partner to another or may create a significant imbalance between the rights and obligations of a trading partner as set out now. According to the Directive, customers with significant market power vis-à-vis their suppliers are divided into several bands, starting with customers with a turnover exceeding EUR 2 million and ending with EUR 350 million. The directive is based on the fact that unfair commercial practices are applied by a larger entity vis-à-vis a smaller one. The Directive applies to unfair commercial practices which occur in relation to the sale of agricultural products and food products and are prohibited by the Directive. However, the directive also envisages that certain practices, although contrary to fair trade, are not prohibited, but only under the terms of the bilateral agreement of the Contracting Parties. The problem is, however, that the amendment to the Act on major market power continues to work with the concept of significant market power, unlike the directive that works with the concept of so-called negotiating power. The directive is based on the fact that larger bodies have greater bargaining power and do not need protection, entities with a certain size that are not vulnerable. Therefore, the Directive sets out the categories of entities on the basis of turnover. Almost everything was taken from the directive into the amendment to the Act on Market Power, with the exception that the draft amendment to the Act on Market Power continues to work with the term of significant market power. This significant market power was firmly linked to a certain turnover of the customer towards a certain turnover of the supplier. However, a customer in excess of EUR 350 million does not have to worry about being affected for unfair commercial practices against its suppliers with a turnover of more than EUR 300 million, because it is assumed that a customer with a turnover of more than EUR 350 million is able to defend himself through its negotiating power against unfair commercial practices. Unfortunately, this does not correspond to reality in the Czech Republic. Suppliers who are part of the agricultural and food chain are unable to defend themselves against unfair commercial practices, for one simple reason that the chain of trade is the main distribution channel that they are unable to replace. The bargaining force is therefore clearly on the customer's side despite the turnover achieved. [[12.10 hours]] Unfortunately, in terms of trade chains, protection will cease to exist in the Czech Republic, and the amendment to the Act on Market Power will thus allow unfair trade practices by trade chains to be applied to suppliers whose annual turnover exceeds EUR 350 million. In contrast to the Slovak law on non-primerised podmienkach in the food trade, according to which protection against unfair commercial practices will be obtained to all entities, paradoxically the same entity supplying agricultural products or food products to the trade chain in the Czech Republic will not be protected and in Slovakia will be protected. If it should happen that this law will be pushed into force and it will not be able to accept amendments in such a way that we can actually protect everyone within the supply-customer relations in the framework of food and agricultural products trade, I believe that it is necessary to open the Price Act so that we do not really get into a situation where we eliminate certain articles in the food manufacturers' verticals, because it is not possible for certain entities to enter sub-cost or sub-customer prices within the production cycle or after sales. Unfortunately, there is such a situation in the Czech Republic, so I think that we really need to level out the market environment here so that we do not essentially destroy what we have been building here for a long time. Given that food safety and self-sufficiency is a topic that resonates not only in the Czech Republic, but within the whole of the European Union, I would like to ask that we actually approach this law responsibly and that we do not get carried away with the idea that, in essence, only the holding companies will pay for it, but believe me, of course, that the companies that supply directly to the chain of commerce will pay for it, and it is not just large enterprises. So I'm sorry I kept you. Thank you, Madam President, for always trying to create decent conditions for me, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. First of all, I wish you a nice noon, and we took turns managing the meeting. I'll load two more apologies. Mrs Klára Kocmanová apologizes, today from 13:00 to 14:00 for work reasons, and she apologizes to Vice-President Kovářová today between 12:15 and 13:00 for work reasons. And we will return to the general debate, Mr Tureček is enrolled, Mr Pražák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to follow up on the discussion that we have had here on the issue of the law on significant market power on 6 April, and I would like to follow up on my questions, because my colleagues and I have, in total, questioned the effectiveness of the proposed amendment in terms of price regulation, in terms of controlling trade chain margins, especially for basic foods, and we have not yet received a clear answer from the petitioner and some guarantee. So at this point, I would like to repeat a few of the questions I had on the person of the Minister as the chief translator of this law, namely - I will no longer repeat this, but in my speech I have made several critical remarks on the bill itself on significant market power and my conviction that the adoption of this amendment of the law will lead to a deterioration of the position in a number of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain. This is our position, our position, and on this occasion I asked the Minister if he could guarantee to us Members a clear microphone that these concerns are unnecessary, in other words that the adoption of an amendment to the law on significant market power will not lead to a deterioration in the position of a number of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain. So that's my first question, my request for an answer, a guarantee, a request for a petitioner, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister Nekula himself. The second question was a little more complicated, but, of course, I argued that the food sector, food prices, is becoming a big social issue throughout Europe, that practically there is a need to think about some concept for basic food, the social burdenability of the prices of basic food for the population. Of course, I said that, of course, I am aware that the whole area of the law on significant market power falls under the common agricultural policy regime, that is, any such change must be agreed and discussed at least at the level of practically European Union, Council of Agriculture Ministers and Fisheries, to be exact. So my second question was to the Minister if - if he takes the view that he will probably take up the position of President of the Council of Ministers in agriculture of the European Union from 1 July - the Czech Republic and he, as President of the Council of Ministers in agriculture, will initiate the amendment of the relevant European Commission directive precisely in the area of significant market power in the European Union, with the issue of price regulation - and I note, basic food throughout the European Union - and, of course, control, effective control of trade margins of large business chains. That is what I think is very important in the upcoming situation. On the other hand, it must be said that this is not a panacea to say I would have cheaper food, to stop food price growth in the European Union, because the problem in terms of growth, the sharp rise in food prices is more complicated, it is one of the measures, other measures of course, to avoid rising food prices in the Czech Republic. In the European Union, it is necessary to look for a complete complex, namely first for primary producers, to reduce the cost of inputs that practically increased by between 100 and 300 per cent for farmers and food professionals - in this context, I note energy prices, gas, fuel prices by 50 per cent and finally for fertilizers, which have increased by 300 per cent. And, for example, Poland regulated these fertiliser prices or relieved farmers by granting a subsidy of EUR 316 per hectare, which, of course, reduced the pressure to increase the prices of basic food. [[12.20 hours]] Then what I think is very important is the issue of addressing the overall effects of regulation, and here is my question to the Minister of Agriculture. I have not found anywhere in the presentation report and nowhere in the draft law that an assessment of this proposal was made of the overall effects of regulation, the so-called RIA method, on the business sphere as well as on the state administration and other groups concerned. So here I would like to ask the Minister what is the case with the assessment of the overall effects of regulation, so that is my third question. Then I would like to mention, because when we discussed the law, we discussed and drew attention to the problems of controlling trade margins, that the law lacks these things, and also in the draft amendment to this law, so that the control of trade margins could be effective. In the meantime, there was some alleged inquiry into the Ministry of Agriculture, I call it the media fog of the Ministry of Agriculture, which we have learned that only some inspectors found curled salami in the trade chain with a margin of 246 percent. I want to ask if this was the case, how did the Ministry of Agriculture proceed in terms of the consequences and responsibilities of this chain of trade? Because, of course, we all know that the trade margin may be 10, 20, 30 per cent, but 246 per cent is certainly a clear abuse of the dominant position on the market, so there should be some measures to remedy, some administrative decision and imposing fines and sanctions. So I would like to ask you about this particular case, which is really terrifying from the point of view of the abuse of significant market power by the chain of trade, as has practically been done in terms of sanctions, so that is my fourth question. However, I also looked into the joint presentation of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition with the Minister of Agriculture at the press conference and then the communication of the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition when it broke up. We have learned from the media that the UOHS controls, in particular, whether someone does not apply unfair competition practices, but we have not learned exactly what the role of the IOHS in the specific control of the trade margins of these chains is. So I repeat, it confirmed our concerns, as we have been saying from the outset, that the law itself on significant market power is insufficient in this respect in terms of controlling trade margins. Finally, this is one of the first tasks of the resolution of the Agricultural Committee, which asked the Minister for Agriculture to propose a system of control of trade margins. And I don't want to come back now, but I hope it wasn't the completion of the task that was announced on Twitter that a curled-up salami with a trade margin of 246 percent was found -- that's for sure what we didn't imagine, the instigators of the agricultural committee's resolution, the control of the trade margin. Finally, about 14 days ago, I interrogated the Prime Minister in the resolution of the agricultural committee in question, and he referred to the resolution of the agricultural committee and also to the control of trade margins. So our position here is that according to this law and draft law cannot be checked and, above all, there is no penalty for breaking the law in everyday activities. So the law itself is only an implementing amendment that does not bring anything new from the point of view of controlling trade margins, in particular it does not introduce sanctions on how to effectively correct or sanction the findings and meet their limits. I, of course, also told the chairman of the agricultural committee our position on the bill when I signalled that we would use our right to make amendments. In particular, this will concern such four core areas, namely to abolish bands, limits, remove the obligation of a paper contract, support the Slovak model - that is what we are mainly concerned about, this is what Kott here stressed, because we think that the Slovak colleagues are certainly very well, much better treated by the law itself on significant market power, which is much better worked out, and because we believe that, in order to have price regulation for basic foodstuffs, it is necessary to discuss at the same time the opening of the price law, because if price regulation is to be - and again I point out, basic foods, when I take models of the definition of basic food, whether it is in Poland, Hungary, eventually even in 2010 the then government coalition of ODS, TOP and Public Affairs spoke about basic food, and I suspect that it was defined in the proposal of nine basic foods - so if it is to be effective, it is necessary to discuss the opening of the price law and, for these basic foods, to introduce price regulation or material price regulation. So many of my questions. I would appeal again to the Minister if he could then answer these questions in his speech, because it is absolutely essential for us to decide how to proceed with this draft law, which, in our view, is in this form in which he was presented, purely implementing and does not address the issue of the food crisis in Europe, which occurred, because of course he was prepared by the previous management of the Ministry of Agriculture for Miroslav Toman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, I will invite Mr Pražák to the speaker's counter, Mrs Balaštíková will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u10	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Ministers, I would like to wait and leave the floor to the Minister, if I felt that he would like to come forward and answer some of our questions, whether from last time or now, but given that he has consistently been disturbed by the rapporteur the whole time that he spoke, I actually believe that he may not be able to perform now, because he probably does not know what Mr Tureček was asking, and I am sorry. I don't mean it ironically. I would like to live to see in this House that the Minister of Agriculture will sometimes speak up and give his opinion. I really wish. I mean, I don't mean any harm, but unfortunately, we don't have a lot of points as farmers here in the House, but mostly what we had here, unfortunately, the minister never got off and never said anything. And I would like to know his opinion, because the opinion of people who are disturbing him, such as now the Minister, may be interesting, but I would like to hear the opinion of our Minister, because I consider myself a farmer, we have fellow farmers here and we have our Minister for Agriculture, but unfortunately we will not get to that. I know this is about the transposition of the bill on significant market power, which should have already been approved, but I would like to pause over what colleagues have said here, that the amendment or the law does not address international trade chains where unfair trade practices occur and will not be affected by this amendment at all. The sub-cost purchase prices are not addressed at all. I don't know why it's not there at all when we know how it works these days. On the contrary, the law wants to address agricultural products for further production, but it does not address what we all point historically to and have pointed out in the past, and these are transnational trade chains and their unfair commercial practices. The supply of agricultural products for further production has a completely different business practice than the supply of food to final consumers, and unfortunately it will be brought after them. In our terms, unfair commercial practices in the supply of agricultural products for further production are virtually absent. It will also have a significant impact that the definition of agricultural products, with reference to the Annex to one Treaty on European Union, which is also cereals, oil, compound feed and so on, not just processed foods, which we should mostly care about. I'd like to eat what my colleagues have already said, how they took it in Slovakia. In Slovakia, they dealt with the transposition of the directive by issuing Act No. 91/2019 Z. z., on unfair commercial conditions in the grocery store. They have not taken into their law any zones with reference to the fact that unfair commercial practices will thus be prohibited in relation to all customers. This law thus protects all food suppliers in Slovakia, even suppliers in business chains. Paradoxically, suppliers will not be protected in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia they will. As far as prohibited unfair practices are concerned, they have a number of times more than we have in the Czech Republic in the law, and also more than the directive lists them. In practice, such a solution is more appropriate, since it is always better to have specific practices so that it does not have to be complexly imported, whether any unfair commercial practice falls under the general clause of the type of negotiation or application of contractual conditions which create a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties. In some respects, the Slovak law is stricter than the directive itself, but it is certainly better than what we now have in front of us. Some prohibited practices have also fallen out of the amendment, whose ban has proved appropriate and used in practice, such as the maximum guarantee period of the price. In the law on significant market power for a maximum of three months, this ban no longer appears in the amendment. Therefore, I would also like to join the questions as to why it does not appear there. Unlike the current law, the proposal does not contain a rebuttable legal presumption in order to demonstrate that it does not have significant market power in view of the market situation of the customer. The significant market power will no longer be such a position of the customer, as a result of which the customer can impose without a fair reason an advantage on suppliers in relation to the purchase of foodstuffs, and the significant market power will be the buyer or supplier derived from turnover. What will that mean in practice? For all companies in the agricultural and food chain, this will mean that, if turnover bands remain maintained, any company that exceeds the turnover criteria will have to have a turnover calculated in conjunction with connected persons prior to the negotiation of the contract, in conjunction with the fact that in Section 3 (1) (a) of the Agreement, the turnover calculated in conjunction with the connected persons, must be available to all companies in the agricultural and food chain. 14 It is stipulated that the customer and supplier shall provide each other with information on the amount of their annual turnover when negotiating the contract upon request of the other Contracting Party. Well, I wonder how it's gonna be done in practice. Strictly followed in accordance with the proposal, each customer should divide its supplier by turnover band and determine whether it is in the position of a customer with significant market power. In practice, there will also have to be a revision of all contracts by businesses operating in the agricultural and food chain, because the amendment to the Act on Market Power requires a written form of contract for the supply of agricultural and food products and must have certain elements - the price, the amount of discount on the price or the way it is determined, the maturity must not be longer than 30 days from the date of delivery of the invoice, the specification of the purchase action, if agreed and so on. The mechanical take-over of unfair commercial practices from the Directive may cause difficulties in applying to agricultural holdings, since trade in agricultural commodities is subject to completely different rules than in the sale of food products to the commercial network for the purpose of selling them to consumers. Perhaps it would be a good idea to divide unfair commercial practices into two groups, such as those that are forbidden when delivering to chains and others that might occur on farms. I could probably keep reading and go on, but I would really, really like to get some at least partial answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line is Mrs Balaštíková and Mr Černý will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u12	Hello, colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u13	Sorry, I'm gonna cut you off. I have a factual point here, Mr Kučera, who takes precedence. I'm sorry. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly respond not only to my first speaker, but to all the speakers and future speakers who are telling us their comments. I would like to say that this is what I, as Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, have called for a working meeting where representatives of the agricultural committee, of course also representatives of the ANO movement, have been invited, and where we have been trying to deal with and discuss these comments. This was all going on. Of course, I understand that there is an interest in this being heard here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and I do not take that right to anyone, but if we are talking about the actual fulfilment of the questions, we have indeed tried to do so or I have tried to create such a platform by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, it has not been used by the ANO movement since the representative has not arrived, but I understand. Of course, it's better to say here on camera than in some closed meeting. The fact that the fine is running CZK 1.5 million a day, so today it costs us CZK 1.5 million a day, the fine that will be paid is obviously clear as well. The fact that it is not so much about the factual comments as about some other things that concern the activities of one large entity here, that is also clear. However, I would like to promise here that the meeting or working meeting on this law will continue to be offered and further developed by the agricultural committee. That means if that's what we really want to do, this is what the agricultural committee will do. So I invite you to attend these meetings as well. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u15	Thank you. We have three more factual points. Mrs Peštová will speak first, Mr Pražák will be prepared, followed by Mr králíček. Then we will return to the general debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u16	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Government, I will not say another word, because there is only one member of the government, so I would like, through the President, I think I can call on the Minister directly to step behind the counter and answer the questions that have been raised here. We were here yesterday discussing the construction law and I must commend Minister Bartoš, who was not afraid and went into the discussion. Both Minister Bartoš and Minister Šalomoun, who was also not afraid and also went to the counter and went to a really factual discussion. There have been clear questions, there have been few, and your duty is - you're defending something here, so if you're doing a function you don't have, then give up that function. But I think you're a minister, you've taken responsibility, you've got a power resort, and you're obliged here to answer to the Members for what they're asking you because the hierarchy is clearly given. The Chamber of Deputies, these are the legislators, and they accept the laws that you present here. I thank you that you will surely find the power in you and go stand here and say the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u17	Mr Pražák's point of fact follows. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u18	Thank you. I would respond to the President of the Agricultural Committee, through the President. Yes, you're right, there was probably some sort of farm committee meeting. Our deputy wasn't there, I'm sure he was excused, you're right, I'm not. But just give me one reason why the Minister won't perform here under any law. And I said it, and I don't mean it wrong. I'm not being ironic, but I'm dead serious. And, as my colleague Peštová said, through Mr President, for example, yesterday the construction law, ministers acted, responded. We can have different opinions. It seems to me that the Minister would perform, but he's not allowed to do it - or I don't know why he won't. But doesn't it strike you as strange to you as well? That all the laws relating to agriculture, here we recite it at the sign-in counter, the minister as the translator here will say the basic information, the basic report, sit down, then somebody cancels it, mostly some newsletter, and nothing simply. Nothing at all. Quiet. I don't know. You don't think that's weird? We already do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u19	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr králíček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u20	I would like to ask the President of the Agricultural Committee, through Mr President, whether this meeting is intended to replace the debate in the House, because if we are not speaking to the point or talking for a long time, we are being blamed for being obsessed. Colleagues are speaking to the point, and we're being accused of asking the second time. I don't know what you think the opposition should look like, or I know, maybe if we didn't talk at all. So the new concept of the five-calice is that the Minister sends the law to the House, the chairman of the committee responsible will make some 10 minutes of meeting, so if the representative of our movement can't, he will be accused of not actually having to answer, because we could ask about the meeting of the agricultural committee where the minister wasn't, or was, I don't know if he was. But we just want to talk here, we want to ask, and I don't know if they're watching it or not, I really don't care. But why do you keep taking away from us - and it's starting to irritate me - you're constantly robbing us of the right to ask questions, and you're still justifying it. We're just not gonna shut up. Get used to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u21	Your factual point raised Mr Kučera's factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u22	Well, hello again. When I'm asked, I answer. Of course, working meetings are not meant to replace appearances at the House, nor do I deny it to anyone. After all, you perform here almost nonstop and occupy almost all points with constant questions or reading speeches. I don't mean this point, I mean in general. We haven't really gotten to any proper work here at the House just because you have that opportunity and that you're performing and that you're asking. We're not really taking that option away from anyone. I mentioned a work meeting here because the work meeting is simply a work meeting, which means, there can really ask not only the minister but also the representatives present, the meeting is not for ten minutes. Representatives were present, or the President of the Competition Authority, there was the President of the Agrarian Chamber, there was the President of the Food Chamber, there were representatives of other NGOs, and therefore the meeting was meaningful. And perhaps you, my colleague, would be interested to know that there was a majority agreement in order for the law to be passed in this text and in this state in which it is presented today. I think that's pretty crucial information that hasn't come out yet. And the fact that there is a whole range of things to work out and improve, that is, of course, true, too. We have a whole term to complete these things, but in this state and in this situation, it is best to accept this amendment as it is. Attention, 1.5 million crowns a day, 1.5 million crowns a day, 1.5 million crowns a day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u23	Thank you. Your factual point raised five further factual points. By the time we get to them, I'll load up two more apologies. Today, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, and Minister of Culture Martin Baxa apologizes today from 15.45 a.m. to 16.15 p.m. for work reasons. One more message: I am voting with a replacement card number 32 throughout today's meeting day. And we'll go back to the actual notes. Mrs Peštová, Mrs Ožanová, then Mr Pražák and subsequently Mrs Balaštíková, will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u24	I wanted to ask Mr Kučera, through Mr President, if you have exchanged roles with the Minister. Like you're the Minister now, and the Minister is your press secretary? Or how do you do it? I thought the ministry was run by the minister, the minister submitted, the minister here at the plenary answering questions raised by the plenary, and, of course, defends what he has in the law. But I see it's completely backwards. The minister's role is taken over by you, and you're defending something here, and the Minister is sitting and quiet. That's probably wrong, isn't it? So I would really like to ask the Minister if he would be able to step up here and answer all the questions that have been asked here. I'm sitting here all the time, I'm not going to repeat what I said here a long time ago, but I like - and I'm not an expert on agriculture, but the environment, and I think it has something to do with it - and those draconian prices that are rising in food, they are also visible, they we see every day. And I also want to be involved in the debate. But the only way I can get involved is if the minister tells B, but he has to come in here and tell B, so thank you for finding the power and coming in here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u25	Another factual point, Mrs Ožanová. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u26	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna say what one of my favorite colleagues says: "The sněmovna is a souvenir." And I would just like to remind myself that the Government is accountable to the House, which is currently a bit forgotten that there is a need to have a debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and it is appropriate to answer questions from Members. I confess that yesterday I had just had a very short contribution which I did not read, my fellow Members, and about which I and Mr. Minister for Regional Development, Mr. Bartoš, have explained our views. The discussion was constructive and was able to answer questions. I'm sorry some ministers don't know how to do this. I believe that this would benefit the debate, because the House plenary serves to express our views. And I'm currently encountering the fact that it bothers you when we express our views, and when we express them factually, it bothers you too. Anything matters. I believe that the majority simply must accept that even a minority has the right to comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Pražák, Mrs Balaštíková will be prepared. Mr Pražák cancels his point of order, so two minutes for Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u28	So good day, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say one thing to the chairman of the agricultural committee. I've been holding round tables for six years for a law on significant market power. None of those round tables were ten minutes or an hour, it was always at least two hours. We had to limit the speakers because those people were full of emotion, full of their problems, and they wanted to tell us. If you were serious about this, you wouldn't be calling for that narrow leadership, you would invite us all to comment on it, and I would take that as a relevant discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u29	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Schillerová, and Mr Kučera will be prepared. Madam Speaker, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will not comment on the law on significant market power, I do not feel like an expert on it. I said, I don't do everything. I also turn with a polite request, as I say, with the voice of a fairy-tale wolf, to the minister, and I ask him very much to perform, because I don't remember - maybe I haven't been here for a while, but I don't remember hearing your voice at all. And I'd like to know what your voice is. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] That was a little light, of course it's not meant to be. What I'm interested in is how you answer my colleagues. I'm sorry we weren't on the round table. I'm gonna find out, of course. I've already asked the organizers to send it to me next time, I'm sure I can secure it. It's fallen into space somewhere, which I'm very sorry about. I'm sure our deputies would want that. However, no round table will ever replace this parliamentary debate. And I think it's also your duty to come out here and answer questions, expert questions from my colleagues, who are putting them in a very well-founded manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u31	Thank you. This time, Mr Kučera's vote will be expressed, who has applied for another factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u32	When I'm asked, I answer. To Mrs Balaštíková, my dear speaker, through Mr President: I very much appreciate the round tables, the six years that have been worked on the amendment to this law, and the debate, or the work meeting that has taken place, was merely a finalization and clarification of the individual positions that have been taking place here. It was not intended to change the ambition of this proposed amendment, or to say whether something had to be fundamentally changed or not. That's all. We weren't supposed to have any basic round table, rather just specify the individual attitudes that are here. This means that it is such a final act before this amendment is discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. And to the President of the ANO MEP's club through the President: indeed, if they are round tables, all Members are invited, respectively, to the Club Presidents. This was rather a working meeting of the Agricultural Committee, which, as I have already said here, was not used by the ANO movement for some personal reasons, but I think such meetings make sense. We can also discuss these questions with the representatives of the expert groups I was talking about here. On the other hand, I do not, of course, deny anyone the right to speak here and ask questions in the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, it is also clear that they will receive greater effect and more varied answers at work meetings. So both the meetings and the debates in the Chamber of Deputies will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u33	Thank you very much. The next will be Mrs Balaštíková. Before I give her my word, I'll make two more apologies. Mrs Krutáková apologizes today between 13:00 and 14:00, which is, however, a lunch break, but so be it. He also apologizes today from 18:00 to the end of the meeting day, Minister Gazdík. Madam, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u34	Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. This time I'd like to respond to the Minister's silence. For those who have not heard him, the Minister can speak. I've spoken to him several times, his voice is pleasant. Why doesn't he talk, I don't know. I have to say, colleagues, questions need to be asked, and answers are being attached to them. Let's say, as in court, silence is considered consent, so we can say that the Minister agrees with our answer. It is a guide on how to continue the discussion with the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u35	We've exhausted the factual points. Mrs Balaštíková is duly enrolled in the general debate, so I will invite her back to the speaker's table. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u36	Hello again. I totally forgot about it, so I took a walk. In fact, this law also responds to what the European Parliament Directive, namely Council No 2019/633, wants, where the aim is to combat unfair practices that deviate from fair trade. All countries of the European Union have had experience with unfair practices and have all been invited to prepare legislation in past periods. At the time when the individual Member States were invited, the Czech Republic was among the first, because we already had the law by the time the call came. We didn't have it perfect, but we were among the first, which I considered very positive. There, we were asked to set up the basic framework for the functioning of the supply-processing chain, to ensure quality food for our citizens and, at the same time, to create the conditions for the functioning of farmers and food professionals, necessary for the management and maintenance of the population with proper care. I must say that it is possible, of course, from other countries, where this law also works, where they have made it much more focused on the area in order to help those small - and now I think small in terms of turnover, not just their size - to help them, in other countries, and, on the contrary, to deal with them in some countries, they have actually outrun the EU regulations that are coming again, and they have also dealt with the retail prices, sales in events, and they have also dealt with the margins of individual food, and some countries have even dealt with sub-cost prices. Of course, their legislation cannot be fully passed on to the legislation of the Czech Republic, because each country has different laws. I have to say that if we wanted to make the law perfect, we would have to go into more laws to actually hit everything that went wrong during the period when the multinational chains are on the market. I am also not a friend of any regulation, and I mentioned here last time that I understand colleagues from ODS who are fundamentally against regulation, but we said that every law is regulation and that we always go into something that the market can't solve and what we actually want to fix. [[13.00 hours]] And I have to say, this law is very important to me, not because, of course, I held those round tables, but mainly because I heard the needs of those people. And I was really signing confidentiality against some companies, because they were actually telling me information that if they had learned about the chains, it would have meant, of course, to them, that they would have gotten out of the chain, various string sanctions in the spirit that we really allowed them to act like Klondike here. I'm not saying whose fault it is, I'm just saying that there's just been a mistake, and that's what we should all be trying to fix. And I would venture to say that the fundamental pillar of every government, or every government's policy, should be to ensure food self-sufficiency and availability, economic accessibility for its people. There should be support for the sale of food that is healthy, that is environmentally friendly, and that should reduce inequality by ensuring sustainable and access to quality nutrition, because let's say that sometimes those products that are sold differently in events, and those chains push to make the product as cheap as possible - I once showed it here or said it in relation to salami, that about CZK 67 salami, there is no need to buy a roll to it, because it simply contains the flour, and that no one can think that it is 100% of meat. So even this should be respected by the government in some way, and this law would actually allow it. Another aim of the government should be to pay producers fair prices for their work and to enable them to live with dignity. [[He's turning to the President.]] I think I might be interrupted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u37	You have one more minute. You will be interrupted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u38	...because the noise is so high that I really won't try here for nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u39	I'm gonna ask the O.R. to calm down, and you can continue until 13:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u40	Surely we should also try by this law to strengthen the quality of products in terms of health and the environment and nutrition by prohibiting certain practices that do not go about it. And that government proposal that is, that really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u41	Now, I really must interrupt you, Madame. It's 13 o'clock, I'm interrupting our meeting. We'll continue at 2:30 p.m., point 112, oral questioning. Until then, have a nice day and enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-009-007.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. We're launching another item on our show, which is
