ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-001-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications and on the Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as amended /German press 161/ - Second reading And the proposal submitted for the plaintiff of the Minister of Industry and Trade will be presented by the Minister of Legislation, Michal Šalomoun, who will represent him. I am now looking around - he was in the hall just a minute ago - if anyone can tell him, he is probably standing in the foyer, representing Minister Šalomoun. Let's wait another minute. I'm sure he's here. [[The minister is entering the hall.]] Excellent. So please, Deputy Minister, take the floor. He's the Minister, representing the plaintiff, the Minister of Industry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-001-010.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, let me briefly remind you of the reasons for the submission of the Government's draft law, which was submitted following the directly applicable regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 2019/1753, judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union C-389/15 amending the Act on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications. In essence, the European Court of Justice came to the conclusion that, if the legal protection of the designation of origin is implemented both by national law and by Union law, Union competence is exclusive and cannot be provided in parallel with national law. So that actually depends on this regulation, which, I can say, is relatively simple and has to solve this collision that occurs in the protection of designations and geographical origin. This applies specifically to designations and origins which protect certain agricultural products, especially foodstuffs and wines, so that national legislation needs to be adapted in these areas, in such a way that national legal protection is no longer provided in this area because it is granted by Union law. In particular, transitional provisions are important in the bill's proposal, where the possibility must be given to right-holders who today draw protection at national level so that they can draw it in some other way, by which I mean either by Union protection or by international protection, and therefore there are transitional provisions so that these right-holders have a chance to ask for this protection by 14 September, whether they want to continue, and if so, in what form, whether in the Union or in the international one. This date is chosen on a targeted basis because it follows up with the European Union regulation, which sets out deadline on 14 November, where a Member State must actually submit these amendments to the European Commission so that the European Commission can deal with them in some way afterwards. So it is once again a matter that is rushing from the Union's point of view, but the reason for the rush is a little different from what we usually have here, when we are at risk of infringement. In these cases, in principle, there is no danger of infringement, but there is a risk that if we did not discuss this quickly, the deadline would not have to be met, we would have put those right-holders in a very uncomfortable situation and, in principle, the national protection would have fallen to them. That is why I am asking you to release this bill until the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-001-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was also directed to the Agricultural Committee. The committee resolution was delivered to us as House prints 161/1 to 3. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Michael Rataj, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee, possibly to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-001-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Ministers, honourable Members, Madame Members, allow me to present the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 7th meeting, which took place on 14 April 2022, on the Government Bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as amended: "The Economic Committee, after hearing the interpretation of the President of the Industrial Property Office Josef Kratochvíl, decided on the following text: I. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House press 161 as amended by the Government Bill. II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department, to make legislative technical amendments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. III. He instructed me to present this report in the Chamber of Deputies." That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-001-010.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, you can take a seat at the rapporteur's table. And I will also ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Karel Smetana, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal on the agricultural committee, where appropriate... Not interested, okay. So I am opening up a general debate and looking at whether anyone is enrolled in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. And I am opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Once again, I do not see any application for a detailed debate, so I am also finishing here. This, because we have no voting proposals, is the end of the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, we can conclude this item and proceed to the next item. I will read in the meantime the apology of Mr Josef Flek from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for reasons of health. And now I'm opening point 77, it's
