ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u1	The combined debate on points 25 and 26 / House prints 1 and 2/ So I am now opening up a general debate in which I have the priority right of the Minister for Legislation, Šalomoun, and then the rapporteur. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, I would just like to say to you that it is the ambition of the current government to put forward a government bill so that, in fact, this law is assessed in such a long legislative process, in the government, so that the RIA can be processed on it, i.e. an assessment of the impact of regulation, so that it is in the commentary procedure and that it is at the Government Legislative Council. If President Vondráček mentioned here that we have a commitment from the National Recovery Plan to accept this regulation, this commitment is here, but it is with 31. 3. 2026, so this commitment really is probably one of the few we have in the National Recovery Plan, which doesn't really bother us. What worries us quite significantly, you basically pushed through the legislative process yesterday, for which I thank you, for your constructive approach, because yesterday's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies filled me with some optimism that we could significantly reduce the transposition deficit. However, as far as this proposal for a law on lobbying is concerned, there is no transposition deficit yet. Indeed, the government's legislative work plan for the remainder of 2022 is the task of the Ministry of Justice to present the lobbying law by the end of 2022, so I would ask you to leave this to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur is now enrolled in the merged debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually reporting as President of the ODS, not as rapporteur. I was just careful not to deal with the law itself in that intelligence report, but only that it was submitted. I will propose that this law be returned to the plaintiff for completion. That's the first thing I signal. I point 1, i point 2, of course, because they are related. And I will try to discuss in a brief way the history of this press and why I think it is completely flawed. Unfortunately, it is a typical press climbed out of the workshop of the previous government coalition, where most ministers did not rule. The Prime Minister, if he ruled, only by texting to his favorites, they let all the rest of them do ministerial servants and he was such a nice promise: We will adopt a law on lobbying to help something, to prevent some processes from being influenced in this country in a other than legal way. By the way, the promise is also enshrined in the National Recovery Plan, but it doesn't work until sometime in 2025, so there's no rush. As officials usually do, of course, in the simplest way possible. All lobbying, all the problems in this country will only come from this house or from the Senate, and perhaps from the members of the government. Everything else is clear, transparent, trouble-free, there are no problems, so the one that needs to be regulated is the politicians. This is a thesis that I fundamentally disagree with, completely structurally disagree with. Frankly, this has nothing to do with the National Recovery Plan. We're going to have a net zero on this one, and maybe even one percent of the ministers are going to be doing everything else at lower levels. And even with regard to other conceptual materials, the legislative process and other things, all lobbyists now know that it is, of course, much better and more useful and easier for them to go to the resort first. And when the resort writes it down, everything's fine, great. There are only those last disasters that may have been left behind. So the idea of making a face, even in the case of legislative materials, and the plaintiff here said very precisely, if it were called The proposal for a law on the regulation of lobbying in the legislative field, perhaps it would be more correct and fairer - then, if we want to regulate only this area, then perhaps it is the right proposal. We got this proposal on the Constitutional and Legal Committee in the last parliamentary term. It is true that the constitutionally-legal committee was quite winning this, and I would say that the wording presented by the rapporteur today as the final version of the IDA is essentially, I would say 80 per cent in order. I'd have three partial reservations to mention here. [[18.20 hours]] But it's true that the constitutional-legal committee has thrown the most nonsense out of it, and that they have to cross-reference lobbyists on one side, lobbyists on the other side, and then there's gonna be some smart guys sitting on some servers from different organizations that I don't even think I need to name here, but we can all imagine them, and they're gonna prove to us what we forgot to report or what we reported extra. That's the first reservation. I think it's a good thing that only those who are interested in it are now reporting, but I think even there might be less frequent reports. The second reservation to this text is that it is with a large question mark whether the advantages that are granted to lobbyists who have to register, who have to undergo a procedure, are subject to different sanctions and others, are really in some way relevant to the importance of such a public declaration and will not only lead to the fact that it will either go around. I think at least it should be considered whether they should have access to eKLEP and other things. And the last partial issue in the text that we have put forward is the question of legislative footprint, and if, as it is described, it does not only lead to an incredible bureaucratic description of everything and everyone instead of following the same way that the European Parliament, for example, follows - when we want to have good practice - and try to catch up on who influenced the possible preparation of the amendment, and not which sentences were there in time one, in time two, in time three, in time four. But those are the partial reservations. I think the most important thing is that someone other than the plaintiff has to do it, too, at the time of the election plus about two days to be number 1 and number 2 of the House press, they have to look at the very concept of the lobby bill itself. And if we're here to pretend that we're dealing with problems with the lobbying bill, it can't just apply to politicians. The real problems that will also arise from another, and this has been repeatedly shown here in this country, such as the drawing of funds, such as the distribution of the National Recovery Fund and others, will be at levels other than the central government's decision-making level. And this, I think, is the task facing Minister Šalomoun and others who will be preparing it to stop playing at the fact that the only one we have to hit if we want to deal with lobbying is politicians, but to actually start dealing with who is the potential risk, the potential weak spot in this country. That is why I propose to return the applicant to work, although I agree that the proposal in the defined section that I have tried to describe, that is the legislation, that is relatively manageable and it would be possible to correct it, but it contains such a small part of the problems that this country potentially has, that I think it is right to wait for the government bill. So my proposals are for volume and return to the plaintiff for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u5	Thank you. I'm registering both of these proposals for both prints. Mrs Válková is now registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will make a point, and the point is that I didn't think I'd have to perform here. And in something I will confirm the words of the former President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, who here described well and aptly how we basically struggled with the law, how we worked on it, how we improved it, and he called it a characteristic that is very close. What the law needs now is to be cleaned, improved, these are sub-regulations: reporting frequency, access to eKLEP, legislative footprint. I also agree with that, although I would perhaps see this solution differently from him, by your means, Madam President, I am, of course, referring to Mr Benda. However, the most important reservation makes me say this because the whole concept of the law is being challenged here and it is said, in other words, that this is a law which is not essential, and what it should bring, and what was the point of its presentation and processing in the past period, should be resolved by the Ministry led by Minister Šalomoun, or by the Legislative Council and the Minister for Legislation, which will put it in a different framework. I don't think so, because even if we look at the comments of the State's reconstruction, other non-state non-profit organizations, we will read the protocols of the constitutionally-legal committee, so this law, in my opinion, represents the law which, in the mosaic of anti-corruption measures... [[Time, I'm sorry.]] ... will help, however, the overall problem will, of course, not solve itself. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u7	Now it's factual, if I understand correctly... isn't it? In that case, I don't have another factual one, Vice-President Bartošek cancels his apology. And I will give another word to the petitioner, Mr Vondráček. Next is Mr Nacher's debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u8	Thank you. When I raised my hand, I just wanted to give a brief introduction to the press 2, but I will respond to Mr Benda, whom I have quite deliberately chosen as rapporteur for this press within the competence of the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I was saying, let's face it, I chose a worthy opponent because he managed to achieve in the last parliamentary term that we didn't have time to vote because he was so honest about it on the constitutionally-legal committee that we just couldn't make it. If the proposal is now being submitted to return the petitioner to work, I appreciate the gentleman's gesture that no direct rejection has been proposed, however, you are returning to work or work something that can't be reworked in principle. Well, you can always be, but in this particular case, I really can't think of anything anymore, because this law has really been addressed by a working group with the participation of all the MPs. The fact that we are only engaged in legislative lobbying is the result of long debates on the working group and on the constitutionally-legal committee, because we understood - and at the time it was a government proposal, it was not my proposal - that this lobbying raises quite a lot of negative reactions, because it is something unknown, new, and we decided that we would go the way from a smaller to a larger one, that we would first adopt legislation, see how this institute works, and then we would go further, because it was clear to us, and it was, for example, the proposals that were no longer present for ČSSD, who wanted to deal with this law more widely, apply to self-governing bodies, and where, of course, we also came to the conclusion in the debate that, for example, there was no point in lobbying to include public competitions, because it was already a crime and corruption in public competitions, and we focused on the very lobbying legislative ones. As far as the press 2 is concerned, if we accept lobbying, then, of course, laws such as the law on intelligence services, the law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the law on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the law on conflict of interest, the law on the Collection of Laws, and all these laws govern the press 2, just for your information, is a really technical matter. [[18.30 hours]] But when I first promised that it would be completely free of those international institutions, I would like to quote at least a little bit of the GRECO report, because the Group of the GRECO states at the Council of Europe really did a lot of work on the issue, especially in the fourth evaluation round, which deals with the prevention of corruption in relation to members of Parliament, judges and prosecutors. GRECO focuses mainly on issues related to ethical principles and rules of conduct, conflict of interest and enforcement of rules dealing with conflicts of interest, prohibition or limitation of certain activities, declaration of interests, income, property, awareness raising and so on. According to material number 4 evaluation reports for the Czech Republic, measures must be taken to increase transparency so that the public can trace back whose interests were in play in the lawmaking process and to limit the risk of undue influence of third parties on members of parliament. "It is clearly desirable to regulate Parliament's relations with third parties and contacts with persons or groups representing specific or sectoral interests, further lay down an institutional basis, for example, by introducing mandatory registration of lobbyists - this is the law we are talking about today - the introduction of a duty of Members of Parliament to publish their relations with third parties in connection with the draft legislation, the introduction of rules of conduct for the third parties concerned and for the members of Parliament so as to provide them with methodological guidance on how to deal with third parties seeking to influence their work and how to actively promote transparency in this area." So much for a quote from the fourth GRECO evaluation report. I think that the minimalist concept is precisely the result of some negotiations from previous parliamentary periods, and I feel the ODS signature to some extent there, because these were the objections of the ODS, which I have complied with in many ways, such as the fact that we have cut off the crossing of the reports of lobbyists and lobbyed persons, that is, us, and there is really no excessive administration or bureaucracy, as my previous speaker, Mr Benda, said, because, in fact, there is some kind of lobbyist contact from the Member's side only in the event that he has actually tabled an amendment and it is really enforced. We haven't had much time in this parliamentary term yet, but you will find that such amendments that will be brought to you, such as the Union of Cities and Communities, such as the Association of Restaurants and Hotels, are all lobbyist organizations, so there are not many that will be transformed into a real legislative text. So it is really more of a priori dislike for us to deal with this institute in the Czech legal order, but it is also - and it is just really verifiable - that we are gradually falling into those evaluations. I myself have been grilled several times, for example in the questions of Václav Moravec, how is it that we still do not have it and that we are failing those evaluations. And if you return this press to the process, and I, of course, re-submit it, we're losing a year, maybe two years that we could have spent some discussion. At this point I really do not know about the government proposal and it is good that we have some deadline for implementation, or it is not implementation, simply the introduction of this institute into the Czech rule of law, but we have a chance to do it now, we have a chance to improve the credibility of the Chamber of Deputies in the public, we have a chance to include ourselves among the advanced European states, and I really believe all that I say in the least painful way. I was always worried when we were talking about lobbying, that somebody was gonna come up with some revolutionary solution, and we're all gonna go crazy here. I myself am a relatively conservative person, I was actually based on a minimalist solution, I felt the support there in the past period, there was definitely a large majority of votes on it, and given that I also worked with the Pirate Party on it, that I worked with STAN's representative on it, so now I am really curious about the vote and the reason why you do not want the lobbying law, why you do not want to discuss it and, for example, extend the deadline for second reading, why you are putting this law aside, and I look forward to explaining it especially in relation to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u9	Let me just make it clear, Mr. Speaker, that, as you said, yes, I will formally end this point and open it again to go through the procedure. Now, with priority rights, the rapporteur or the President of the House of Deputies - prefers the Member, so does Mr Nacher. Or it's totally... [[Voice off the microphone.]] We'll do it later. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u10	Madam President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Well, I didn't really want to perform to confess... [[Fun in the hall, voices off the mic.]] Thank you, I thought I'd have more applause. But I was forced to do so by Minister Šalomoun, because unlike my colleague Marek Benda, who did so in a matter of fact, and I can agree with him on some things, even in some things, and he really did, in terms of the content of the proposal - which I certainly do not consider to be an expert - and I am disappointed in the Minister's approach. Because now the sack has broken, that when I come up with something other than a government proposal, the reaction is, not to look at it from the point of view of the very content and the substance, but to prepare a government proposal. I've been there a second time today, now it's the lobbying law. Today I was on the round table about the trade bill amendment, how we deal with this short-term accommodation where I heard that the government would prepare a better, more perfect proposal. I look forward to it, it is again a plus year, and I look forward to those revolutionary changes that could not be resolved in the second reading by reading the amendments. So, Minister, you answer to the legislative purity of these proposals in the government - I would like to remind you of the two proposals that have passed and will end up in the Constitutional Court, since we are already talking about the government proposals. It is a bill that has frozen or reduced the salaries of constitutional officials, which is likely to end there, the pandemic law too. I didn't have the opportunity because you were excused at those meetings, so the paradox is that you, and that really bothers me a little, because the current coalition, when the opposition was last time, was very active with the parliamentary initiatives and with the parliamentary proposals, and I think that's okay. There were a number of parliamentary amendments, so to say that any initiative, whether parliamentary or trade law - there is even a proposal from the representative of the capital city of Prague, it is not from the pen of a Member, but it is a proposal from the region of Prague or the municipality of Prague, as you want - so it always ends: Let it be, we will make some government proposal and it will be brilliant. Well, that adds six months, a year, and then who knows how it's gonna turn out. Well, I'd like to ask that approach, unlike the approach offered by Marek Benda here, who discussed it from the point of view of matter, I really do not agree with this, Minister, and if you're to be held responsible for this, it's very disappointing for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u11	Thank you, too. So now the Member is claiming to be chairman of the club or rapporteur with priority rights, or do you want to... [[Voice off the microphone.]] Properly. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Minister Šalomoun. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u12	Thank you. Dear Member, this is simply the state of the current legislative work plan of the Government. It's not my job to make this government bill, it's the Ministry of Justice's job. The Attorney General wasn't here, so I thought it was appropriate for me to draw your attention. So much for that. [[18.40 hours]] And if we even look at the fact that the government gave a favourable opinion on this, i.e. the previous government, so if you look at the presentation report, then even in the presentation report there is an assessment of the views of the comment points, of the various ministries, but also of other entities such as the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, and they were not particularly enthusiastic about the bill. Even the Justice Department says here that the government should, in principle, go the way of a government bill with a broad inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which, of course, does not allow for a parliamentary bill. And of course, if there is a government bill, it will extend by at least a year, but the ambition is to do it properly and involve the government structure, which is basically an inter-departmental commentary procedure, and especially an assessment of the value of the effects of regulation, because, on the one hand, it is time, the material is not marginal at all, and I think that the long or the government legislative process should apply to it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u13	Mr Vondráček, the promoter, has now made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u14	I'll be quick. Minister, you amused me, because this material we have here is the original government proposal that we Members have modified in our own image to make it better for us, because the Ministry has been far more stringent and there have been things that we have explained to them that practically are really wrong. And so I'm wondering who signed this statement here that we need a broad review procedure because all of this has already been done. Officials attended meetings of the working group and attended the Constitutional and Legal Committee. So, in a way, it's a really absurd, absurd argument that we need a broad review procedure. I don't know how many times we're gonna need it. But I've seen it all before. We'll probably have to do it again or more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u15	So far, the last enrollment is the President and the rapporteur at this point in time. Minister, with priority rights, or? Okay, the rapporteur will wait. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u16	Mr. Chairman, I'd be happy to answer that. I'm based on the reference report I found in the eKLEP that the previous government left behind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u17	Now, then, Mr Benda. And there is another application for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first a tiny, tiny reservation to the President. You're letting my honored colleague Patrik Nacher talk about Airbnb, who's not on the agenda today. It would be necessary to keep the Members in order, and not to tell us about the meetings that were taking place today, even outside this House, undoubtedly lobbyist meetings, significantly lobbyist meetings, and then to tell us here in the House and make any conclusions about this House's negotiations. [[Laughs of the majority of Members in the Chamber.]] Well, it's just a remark on the edge. On what the translator here said, well, let's be honest: there has never been any serious debate over what extent this is supposed to be, because the government has put forward something and you have been talking mostly with the reconstructions of the state and other clever people who have possibly quoted GRECO at the Council of Europe, especially from the report on how legislative action is to be regulated, which is undoubtedly an interesting report. [[Fun in the hall.]] Not that I take GRECO extremely seriously in the Council of Europe, but, of course, if this report concerns regulation of legislative activity, it will not address other issues that I have tried to name and say here, in which real problems remain. I agree that we - yes, with regard to the regulation of legislative action - have reached a proposal that is relatively reasonable from the point of view of politicians at the end of the last period. I'm just not sure that we have regulated what we want to regulate, and that besides the "we have lobbying law" tag, we're gonna do something useful. And believe me, I've been here long enough to know that much less things are decided here than on an executive level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Vondráček's point of order first and then to Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u20	I don't have that priority right anymore since I used to be here, so at least I'm taking advantage of the actual notes. Mr. Colleague, about the talk with the smart guys - the working group consisted of representatives of all the deputies. Of course, the ODS smart guys were invited, too, and the deputy didn't show up once. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I've been e-mailing everything and hiding everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u21	Now, then, Mr Nacher, with his factual view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u22	Thank you. I would like to stand up for the Prime Minister for not taking my word for it, because it was perfectly okay, Mr Benda, because I have set an example here of when government MPs or ministers say, "Let us leave this parliamentary proposal on ice, we will prepare the government." And if I was prepared here because I said I didn't want to talk, I'd give more examples. And they relate to the content of what we are discussing. So the word shouldn't have been taken correctly, I explained the context. I'm looking at Vojtěch Munzar, who was there too. It wasn't about somewhere in the air, a lobby meeting, but it was a meeting, a round or square square, I was logged in from afar online, which was organized by the Chamber of Commerce with the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which was also attended by your colleague. So I thought that since I even partially commended my colleague Benda for just saying that I agree with something, I disagreed with something, so you see, he's thanking me this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u23	The next one is already registered with a proper application by Mr Karel Haas. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u24	Good evening, Madam President, dear colleagues. In principle, I will try to respond in my speech to a certain complaint, and I mean that in a matter of fact, my colleague Patrik Nacher, through you, the President, who, in the direction of Minister Šalomoun, whom I take to represent the government coalition, blamed, say, the lack of factual arguments that lead to the motion for a re-evaluation. I will offer you the view of the Member who - I am sending - was not a member of the working group during the last parliamentary term, who only read the bill as a lawyer, and I will try - now Patrik Nacher, yes, is here - so I will try to give him quite specific factual legal arguments which do not convince me of the legal quality of the proposal. And so I think the debate is about to take place. The first is on the substance of the law, and there I fully agree, Marek Benda not as rapporteur, but within the framework of a proper debate it justified that in the substantive bill only the creation of legislation, regardless of the fact that the State has a number of other activities, other functions in which lobbying, if we include the Act on lobbying among the means for greater transparency, so they are far more likely to be riskier - the distribution of subsidies, subsidy titles, public procurement and so on, so simply including in the substance of the law only the creation of legislation is, in my opinion, a mistake. First argument. The second argument is, in my opinion, factual errors in the definition of lobbying or lobbying, that is, in Section 2, to be quite specific, and I will give examples of factual legal errors both in the positive definition, in the positive part of the definition and in the negative. In the positive part of the definition, I have a big problem with the inclusion of the CNB, or members of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, in the draft law, when I do not know the updated opinion of the European Central Bank, which is necessary in this case. This is a specific reservation to the positive part of the definition. Reservation to the negative part of the definition, in turn only by example exemption from the definition of lobbying communication between the members of the same political party or the same political movement makes the law or bill largely toothless, so the exclusion of this communication is very problematic in my opinion. [[18.50 hours]] And the second point of the negative part, which I consider to be very problematic, is the exclusion from the definition of lobbying communication with representatives of a foreign state or international organisations. Consider that there are a number of obscure sayings around the world about state regimes or obscure international organizations, and exemption from the law is at least problematic. That was argument ad 2. Argument ad 3, legal definition of lobbied parties, § 4. Again, I am going back to the argument that I have made, including the members of the CNB Bank Board in Section 4 is at least problematic in the context of the necessary discussion with the European Central Bank. Another argument, register management by the Office for the Supervisory of Political Parties or the funding of political parties and political movements. I think it is at least inconsistent from the point of view of Czech legislation. Consider, as Members, including a number of other public officials, how we have to deal with registers that we have to fill out for the start of the term of office, or I think that, from the perspective of some unity of the Czech rule of law, the unity of access and access in the Czech legal order, as well as from the point of view of technological equipment, ICT equipment of the central body, the possibilities of the Ministry of Justice and the possibilities of the Office are completely incomparable. The second-last argument is the argument on § 14 and § 17, which is the duty of lobbyists to draw attention to the fact that I am a lobbyist at the start of communication with lobbyists. Everyone who's read this proposal, you know what I'm talking about. This warning does not have any form prescribed by law, and beware, this is § 14, with which I would not have such a problem yet, but in Section 17 the breach of the obligation to this notice is one of the offences which may be one of the facts of the offences which may be sanctioned under the law. And please, are we someone in this House a fan of offences that have very difficult objective proof? How will we demonstrate at the moment when the warning does not have any legally prescribed form, that is, can it be done orally between the two eyes, as we, for God's sake, want to prove this fact objectively? And I really am not a fan of any offences in the Czech legal order, with which there is a possibility of sanctions, which are objectively proven impossible in principle. And the last argument that I had in my remarks on the bill, which I mentioned again, he is intersecting more paragraphs, is that I lack an update of the negotiations with the European Central Bank. So I believe and appreciate the debate that now, for colleagues from the ANO movement, whether for colleague Vondráček through the Chair, whether for colleague Nacher, I have summed up a purely substantive objection to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u25	Thank you, too. I'm gonna load up my apologies before I say another word. Mr Jaroslav Bašta apologizes from 18.20 until the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Karel Tureček apologizes from 17.45 to 19 and then until the end of the day, so until the end of the day for hearing. Now with a point of fact - I apologise to the Member who is registered, but she still has to wait - here is Mr Vondráček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u26	Thank you. I think this discussion will be good if I respond directly, and, indeed, my colleague, thank you for taking the time to read it, and it is refreshing that we are having fun here in a matter of fact. Of course, this debate usually follows up on the committee's discussion. I just have... I don't think I agree with you. You mentioned the area of subsidies. I think we have other legislation. You would have to give me another practical example where you think it is lobbying and, at the same time, it is not a criminal offence. Or you mentioned public procurement. Here we have the process protected by a special law, and I am convinced that we cannot talk about lobbying public procurement. After that, they are machinations connected with the competition and other facts. The third area, which I think has its clear protection, is the area of justice, where, of course, the independence of courts and judges is given by special regulations. We talked in the framework of the law mainly about the development of territorial plans in municipalities, which is a large area where there are strong lobbyist pressures. And we have decided that we will be less ambitious here in the House for one reason only so that we can at least have a law. I'm just worried that there's gonna be an ambitious proposal again, and that's not gonna be enough for us. That's why I think that less is sometimes more and it's better to have that sparrow in your hand than a pigeon on the roof. But thank you again for taking the time to study the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u27	Mr Haas's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u28	To be really legislatively specific, it will not be about subsidies, but it will certainly be about public procurement. I'm sorry to talk to the lawyers now. I assume you all know the institute of so-called market consultation, which is a legal institute in the public procurement process, and the bill does not address the link between lobbying and the institute of market consultation in public procurement. Just for an example of what I had in mind. Thank you very much. Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u29	And so now she is getting to the duly registered Mrs. Válková, who is the last registered member so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u30	Thank you, and I can calm my colleagues down that I won't be long, but I just don't want to apologize to them for crossing two minutes for a factual remark like I had to make before. I would now turn to my colleague Haas, Mr Haas, by your means, Madam President, who has frightened me a little, as I have frightened him this morning. So he scared me, too, because even though I wasn't in that working group, of course, no vague deed of transgression is good, it certainly wouldn't lead to legal certainty, and it could cause more confusion and problems in practice. I think we also discussed this issue on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I am asking myself a more methodological question about how to approach laws that have been given a lot of attention in the past, but were not enough to so-called votes. And I have elected to the House press - and I will ask Mr Benda not to remind me, as Patrik Nacher, through you, Madam President, that I am turning away from the subject, but this is just a seeming turn-off. This law, which has been factually criticised by Mr Haas at least by you, but, of course, by Mr Benda also on a material basis, has been dealt with in real terms by comments, discussions and work advice. Yet you can see that part of the comments, and I remember them, are coming back again. I chose 40 in the House press, so it was not one, two, another procedure. Unfortunately, the rapporteur is not here, Mrs Eva Decroix, with whom I have agreed, worried about the fate of the press, which, consensually across the political parties in the past period, has received consent - one sentence I will say, is divorce with an agreement, where the parallelability of two proceedings is eliminated, which prevents a quick decision as to what the circumstances of children after divorce will be, and the journey is made easier; divorces with an agreement are preferred precisely for the benefit of children. So we agreed on a procedure to verify for ourselves, and I agreed that - or I did not object - that a seminar would be held, which I personally do not consider to be very important, just so that we could all see not only the need for the adaptation, but the accuracy of it, the fact that it is well written in legislation. [[19.00 hours]] This is where the other approach was chosen. In the lobbying act, this is probably due to the person of the petitioner, Mr Vondráček, as well as the character of the press, who, of course, was referring to the opposition of some Members during the last parliamentary term or at least misunderstand. But what I would really like to confirm is that we've paid a lot of attention to him and that I don't think he's gone through a thorough commentary procedure. At the same time, I think that we should choose such an approach, or we could rather choose such an approach, to those laws which have already been actually discussed, but have not yet been approved that the current coalition, the opposition at the time, would really have made it clear in which laws will appeal to us and priori to substantive comments that could be avoided just by informing those Members who were present during the previous parliamentary term of such discussion, new Members and Members and then agree on an opinion. It is, of course, my opinion and, as such, I am, of course, debatable in the sense that, on the contrary, there may be a counterproposal: Why would we do this, we will do it better, as has also been said here. So I just wanted to point out that the possibilities for dealing with our bills are limited, we are very well aware of this, I also learn as an opposition MP, even for proposals where I am clear that they are factually correct and that they should be submitted and that we should definitely not prolong the unnecessary legislative process, put my teeth in it, and go through the procedure that can also lead to either a return or a rejection of the law. In the case of lobbying, I would merely recommend that you take into account the fact that has been repeatedly raised here, and I think that even Mr Benda cannot deny it, by your means, Madam President, because we have really devoted a lot of time to the law and that the resulting form that you have before you, even though it has now been criticised, would be correct in a factual way within the second reading. So it's a conceptual thing, in my opinion, either you want the law or you don't want it. Finally, I will not forgive the sentence that Mr Benda here, with a certain exaggeration through you, Madam President, said: Talking with the smarts of the State Reconstruction - that was never talking to the smarts. There I have seen it on my own, even with other non-state non-profit organizations, they have very good lawyers there, and I would say that I really take this talk as an exaggeration and in quotation marks, because it was a very qualified discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u31	Thank you, too. The rapporteur has come forward again. I do not know whether as rapporteur or rather as club president, but Mr Benda is simply reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u32	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, maybe this is my last day. First of all, I wanted to make one comment on the threat of Mr Vondráček that once we return it to him to recast, he will submit it again in the same form. That's what I'm saying, at least for our club, but I think for the whole coalition: proposals that we're going to go back to redo and come back in the same form, they're not going to get back on. He won't be able to get to those, please, just to be clear. Unlike the opposition, which has not allowed us to discuss a number of things at all in the past period. I am prepared to discuss all the opposition proposals, but this must not become obstruction. If we say to the proposal that it should be revised - and we are still so polite that we will not reject it - then we cannot say that we will submit it again the next day and pretend that it hangs here. I'll say no more such suggestions for the agenda. That's the first thesis. Second thesis. I am trying to point out that the law could have been much more ambitious, based on some atmosphere of the anti-corruption revolution ten years ago, to which the ANO movement was exported along with all the State reconstructions and other organizations that started it here. I think today the situation is completely different. Today we return to the world of normal real politics, even in general what happens in the world, more than just our internal policies here. And if the plaintiff here is absolutely seriously going to tell me that there is no problem in the area of subsidies because they are influential, that is precisely the misunderstand, the absolute misunderstand, because where are the subsidies going? Where I've directed them, where I've sent them, it's not this House, it's not what politicians say. I know you liked this world, but it's a crucial place to make decisions and make decisions, especially in the National Recovery Plan and in other EU subsidy titles where the money is going, and that's the very key thing. Not what we're voting on here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u33	Mr Vondráček, Mr Vondráček, a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u34	Thank you for the floor. Now the rapporteur's messed up a little bit. I think we've had this debate with a slight perspective and constructive one, and here's the threat that "your opposition proposals won't get in" and that sort of thing that doesn't belong here. I know you have it partly in your programming statement that no opposition proposals will pass. So I remember from the previous parliamentary periods that a number of opposition laws have passed, that we have supported them, opposition proposals, even in Section 90, when this was a common matter. As far as subsidies are concerned, this is a misunderstanding and a misunderstanding. I said that special legislation is appropriate here, that this is not something that would be regulated by a special law on lobbying not only in our country, but I do not know of a similar arrangement comparable in another country. And if there was talk or talk about a wave that was exported to the YES movement, I would like to remind you that, for example, Austria adopted its law in 2012 on lobbying and is essentially very similar and identical to what is being presented here. It is essential for the country to be defined, what is lobbying, who is a lobbyist, how it is proved, how it is registered, who is lobbied, how communication between them is conducted and how transparency is ensured. That's all you can expect from the law. In the United States, it's a whole different reality, and I found here that in 2010, they spent $3.5 billion on lobbying at the federal level in the United States. We move in completely different ways. [[Time.]] It really is - the basis, to establish and define the legal basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-014-901.u35	Next time, please keep time. However, I no longer see anyone else in the merged debate. No one is reporting, so I am ending this merged debate on both points, formally also paragraph 25, or I am interrupting it for the moment to open a point.
