ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u1	23. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the use of digital tools and procedures in company law and the functioning of public registers /public press 139/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Pavel Blažek, will be presented. The rapporteur may then arrive at the table for first reading. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. The Ministry of Justice has drawn up a draft law in accordance with the Government's 2020 legislative work plan amending certain laws in connection with the use of digital tools in company law and the functioning of public registers. The aim of the proposal is to implement the directive of the European Parliament as regards the use of digital tools and procedures in company law, whose transposition period expires on 1 August 2022, and I think that is enough for the introductory word now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u3	Thank you for the brief introductory words and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jakub Michálek, if he is interested in the opening words. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yes, they're digital tools. [[Member Vondráček gestures from the space in front of the speaker's counter.]] Okay, if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u4	I am sorry, Madam President, only to vote. I voted in favour of the 120 vote, but I think it was a bad voter. I haven't logged in. I'm not questioning the vote. Voting 120. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u5	Thank you, for the record, thank you. This was technical. And if we can address the opening words of the rapporteur for the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear colleagues, it is therefore a proposal which implements the law of the European Communities concerning the creation of companies. It is an issue that we have dealt with in the last parliamentary term. It is an effort to facilitate entrepreneurs so that they can set up business companies more quickly. I'm not going to go into the details, but I'm going to say one thing that I consider essential. In the context of this adaptation, let us make it easier for people with a digital identity that meets the requirements of the eIDAS Regulation of the European Union not to have to make the least use of the services of notaries and other similar professions, so that we can really focus the work on matters where there is a need for reflection in the field of law, but that those things that can be automated by means of electronic identities should be done as smoothly as possible without the need to pay fees and be verified through video cameras and so on. I understand that there is a need to verify that the name of a law firm is not interchangeable, but where it can be done, it would really need to be replaced by an automatic regime, digital identity and other similar tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u7	Thank you, too. And now I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Taťána Malá has signed up, and then Mrs Iveta Štefanová can prepare herself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, Members, I am going to be a little more detailed than my previous speakers, because I believe that this implementation amendment deserves attention and deserves to be said here some things that must still be adjusted during the legislative process. Let me recap: as has already been said, the purpose of the law is to transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2017/1132 as regards the use of digital tools and procedures in company law. The proposal allows full electronic creation of capital companies using model social contracts and further strengthening the use of digital tools throughout the life cycle of commercial corporations. This means, in particular, the possibility for commercial corporations to enter data into a public register and to deposit documents in a collection of documents fully electronically and to establish branches in other Member States in full electronic form. Similarly, according to the proposals, data are to be disseminated publicly and free of charge on all capital companies registered in EU Member States on the website and to strengthen the exchange of information between Member States' trade registers. What this proposal further introduces is the choice for newly established legal entities, and they can decide at what stage of the process of their establishment they will declare a trade or request a concession, that is, whether they will do so before or after the application for registration of a legal person in a commercial register is made. This is a fundamental difference from previous legislation. In practice, this means that it will not be necessary to wait for the company to be established to submit a proposal for registration to the Commercial Register after obtaining a trade licence, but it will be possible to set up and write down so-called waiting time. Another proposed amendment is the new rules of integrity for the performance of the function of a member of the institution. The current legislation provides that for the purposes of assessing the fulfilment of the conditions for the performance of a member of a trading corporation body, it is based on the definition under the trade law. The draft of this law amends and newly defines the incapacity to perform the duties of a member of an elected authority of a commercial company, the incapacity to be given on the basis of a decision of a Czech or foreign public authority which prohibits that person from exercising that function, on grounds relating to insolvency proceedings or in the event of convictions for selected offences such as embezzlement, fraud or credit fraud and so on. It is here that this legislation, namely Sections 46 and 46a, seems to me to be quite problematic and I would like to ask the Minister, who listens to me very carefully, whether he is prepared to modify these paragraphs in any way, because the commission of these offences in this case, as described in those paragraphs above, is not directly linked to the performance of the function of a member of the elected body of the company, or the incapacity of the person should only be established if the person has been convicted of committing the offence which she committed in the performance of the duties of a member of the elected body of the company. Another problem I see is the concept of condemnation - not accurate. It is unclear in the current legislation whether this is a first-degree conviction or a final conviction. It is not quite clear how the appellant came to this choice of offences. In my view, it would be more appropriate to adjust this issue so that the obstacle is linked to the infringement of a person related to his activity as a member of an elected authority of a commercial company, not to the types of crime listed or to their substance. Furthermore, the proposal provides for the establishment of national non-public records of persons excluded from the duties of a member of an elected authority of a commercial corporation to be linked within the EU and to enable the exchange of information between Member States on persons who are prevented from exercising their duties. [[10.20 hours]] In this context, another question arises again, whether it is really necessary to introduce further state-made and managed registers which collect data on persons. In practice, the integrity of persons, the provisions in the permissions of the corporate authorities, is now established without difficulty by practically finding out from the criminal record. The next question, of course, is the cost of setting up and keeping this register. As I have already said here, I think it is clear from what has fallen here that this amendment represents another step in the right direction in the area of digitalisation. It concerns not only the strengthening of the possibility of using electronic means of identification, but mainly the possibility of fully electronic creation of capital companies. In principle, it is a revision of trade law and trade register regulation, however, as has already been done here, it is necessary, from my point of view, that changes be made during the legislative process, which will at this time lead to the removal of my concerns and problematic provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u10	Thank you for the floor. I have listened carefully to my colleague and can assure her, and that is why there are committees that if there are any rational changes, that I am not a dogmatist, and of course that text can change if there are rational arguments. That's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u11	Thank you, too, and Mrs Iveta Štefanová is now duly registered. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposal tabled here. The draft digital amendment prepared by the Ministry of Justice is intended to implement further changes to the Czech legal system resulting from the European directive as regards the use of digital tools and procedures and in company law. In particular, this Directive aims to enable full electronic creation of capital companies and to enable the use of digital tools during the next life cycle of companies, in particular through the creation of model social contracts, the possibility of entering data into public registers and depositing documents in a collection of documents or establishing branches in other countries in full electronic form. In this context, an amendment to the Notary Order and the Act on Administrative Fees, which became effective on 1 September 2021, was published in the Collection of Laws. Thus, in some cases the amendment will allow, for example, a social contract to be drawn up by the company without the need to physically reach the notary from September onwards, and it is possible to start the company fully online. The effectiveness of this standard is proposed on 1 July 2022. The proposal also newly defines the incapacity to perform the duties of a member of the elected authority of a commercial corporation. The reasons for incompetence are threefold. It is founded by a decision of a Czech or foreign public authority prohibiting the person from performing his duties. Furthermore, these are grounds relating to insolvency proceedings or grounds of conviction for selected offences. The Digitalisation Directive also requires there to be a record in each Member State of persons who are prevented from exercising their functions. The law therefore introduces records of so-called excluded persons who do not have a chance to start a company or to be part of the management of companies. The law mentions that this so-called blacklist throughout the European Union will be classified by the entrepreneur mainly for reasons of economic crime, and despite the uncertainties mentioned by my previous speaker, Mrs Mala of the SPD, is generally in favour of the digitisation of the state administration, and our MP will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u13	děkovat you, Madam, and Mr Tomáš Kohoutek is now duly signed up for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u14	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, colleagues. The proposal submitted completes the transposition of the relevant provisions of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive 2017/1132 of the European Union as regards the use of digital tools and procedures in company law. The related transposition regulation is Act No. 300/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, i.e. the notary order, and then Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees as amended, which became effective on 1 September 2021. The amendment of the notary order allowed the whole process of founding and creating the company to take place without the physical presence of the founder or founders at the notary. Proving the identity of the Founder and determining the content of the will speech about what is to be taken into the notary record may be done using the means for electronic identification and audiovisual connection in real time, as is apparent from Section 64a of the Notary Order. However, the quoted directive requires that the company's registration in the Commercial Register should not be subject to the issue of a trade licence, in other words, a trade licence may be obtained by the company only after it has been registered in the Commercial Register, and thus the company will be able to enter into the Commercial Register without the presence of a notary of the Founding Charter or of the Social Agreement. The company will then be able to choose whether to apply for the issue of a trade licence after a list of the founding documents prior to registration in the Commercial Register or subsequently. The amendment of the Law on judicial fees also partially responds to the directive, which imposes a reduction in costs when using the form setting up s.r.o., and therefore the limited liability company, for whose establishment the form charter will be used, will be exempt from the fee for registration in the Commercial Register. The amendment of the Commercial Corporations Act is again related to the directive and will be established so-called register of excluded persons, i.e. persons who cannot, for example, become directors or statutory representatives of commercial corporations or members of the supervisory authority. The record will be non-public. For example, persons who are prohibited from operating in any Member State of the European Union and newly those who have been convicted of embezzlement, fraud and others will not be able to act or members of the statutory body of a commercial corporation in the future. When a company is entered in the Commercial Register, this will be the subject of a court or notary check and applicants will not be forced to submit an extract from that register and will be consulted by the court or notary himself. The amendment to the Register Act removes some shortcomings in existing legislation, when it was not yet possible to register a branch of a foreign foundation. In the context of the amendment of the trade law, the registry court will no longer notify the Trader Office that the person has not submitted a proposal for registration or a proposal for registration of the person has not been granted and will project the separation of the private and public-law plane in the creation and creation of commercial corporations, and the above amendment to the Commercial Corporations Act, which introduces the register of excluded persons, is also reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-002-023.u15	Thank you, too. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the general debate, which is why I am ending the general debate. For the record, I'm going to ask if there's any interest in final words? It's not. And since there have been no other voting proposals, we will consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I'm gonna sing. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see such a proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I have begun the vote. Who, for the commandment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is as a guarantee? Who's against it? In the vote number 123, 158 Members voted in favour of 136, against 0. So, I'm saying, this proposal has been ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? I do not see such a request or proposal, so I am of the opinion that we have dealt with all the proposals that have now been voted out. This concludes the discussion of this point at first reading. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[10.30 hours]] We can proceed to the next point of the negotiations, which is the point
