ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I will now unsubscribe all of you and ask you to re-subscribe with your ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quiet. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 3 February of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday, February 4th of this year. We should now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for this meeting. I propose that we appoint Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? Since no, I am opening the vote on the appointment of Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp to the verifier of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 1, 148 Members and Members of Parliament, 143 pro, 0 against. The proposal was therefore accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of the Oldřich Černý and Tom Philipp. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Babišová Andrea - health reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - health reasons, Jáč Ivan - health reasons, Knechtová Lenka - health reasons, Kobza Jiří - also health reasons, Kučera Michal - health reasons, Volný Jan - health reasons, Vomáčka Vít - personal reasons, Vondrák Ivo - from 21:00 to midnight for health reasons, Wenzl Milan - health reasons. From the members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Mr.Bek Mikuláš from 14:00 to 24:00 for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from 14:00 also for working reasons, Gazdík Petr for work reasons, Jurečka Marian - family reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 14:00 to 19:00 for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan for health reasons, Nekula Zdeněk for work reasons, Síkela Jozef for work reasons and Šalomoun Michal for family reasons. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. Mr Jan Farský asked for my word, and I hereby grant it to him before the start of our programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after 11 years in I'm only presenting one subject to the House before you. Before I say anything, let me thank you all. Thank you very much to everyone, but I would like to thank you very much to those who made sense of the eleven years in the House by working here to regulate gambling, that we could enforce a register of contracts, that we could limit debt slavery or that we added the fifth week of youth leave. I want to thank everyone, because every conversation, every debate was enriching, everyone was experienced, and it was worth it. So thank you. I would like to wish the government, which is behind me in the benches, to succeed, to be a successful government, because I believe that if it is a successful government, it will be successful years for the Czech Republic as well. It is not easy because part of the complexity and problems inherited, part comes again. I have become one of the problems that have arisen again, and I simply wish this government maximum success, and I felt a shame that I would burden and complicate her work by causing her concern. That is why I have decided to resign my parliamentary mandate. I hereby also waive the mandate of a Member of this House under Article 24 of the Constitution. I thank you all, I wish you all every success, life and political success, and whatever you may be doing as a legislative body that does a good job for the benefit of the Czech Republic. Good luck!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I think I can wish you good luck on behalf of the others, Mr. Colleague, now, ex-colleague, good luck and good luck. We will now proceed to the programme of the 9th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. Before we proceed to the proposals that have been made on the Gremium, I note that the Senate passed the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies on 11 February of this year amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of certain related laws as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, House print 127/2, rejected by the Senate. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3 The President of the Chamber of Deputies will present it to the House at the next meeting to vote on it again, and that is what I am now doing. I note that the relevant legal time limits are fulfilled, and from Tuesday 15 February 2022, the House's press can be discussed. Now proposals from the Gremium. The first is the proposal to place new points. These will be points: Draft Rules for the Management of Members' Clubs for the Year 2022, House document 353; Request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš; Request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda; Proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 in the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions; Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022, House print 144, first reading. Secondly, we propose the following procedure: a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda to discuss the first and second points of this meeting. Proposal for rules on the management of membership clubs for the year 2022, i.e. House document 353, to include in the report block, proposals and more. The draft timetable for the discussion of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 in the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions and the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, i.e. the first reading, the 144 press must place it firmly on Friday 18 February as the first and second points. [[14.10 hours]] In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, item 105 is included in the proposal for a 9th meeting, which is the answers of the members of the Government to written interpelations. To date, however, at 14 o'clock, this point is not fulfilled, and so we will not deal with it. Plus, I'm still organizing that on Wednesday, 16. 2. after 14 o'clock, we will give room for discussion to the Committee on Budgets and further to the development of the negotiations. That's all on my part for the Grémium deal. Madam Members, I ask you now to comment, if necessary, on the proposal for a programme. President Tomio Okamura has already made his application in writing with priority rights, so he has the floor first. I'm picking up more applications. President Okamura has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u4	I'd just like some peace, if I may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u5	Yes, I would also ask for peace, ladies and gentlemen. Please let the Prime Minister make his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, for our SPD movement here, I will propose a series of points to change this House's agenda. I would briefly justify this, because the government here is pushing as its priority, pushing the so-called pandemic law here, and they want it to be the first point - that is what you want, this five-calice Petr Fiala, to the first point of today's House of Deputies - but we as SPD see priorities elsewhere. We will therefore propose, on behalf of the SPD, a number of proposals to change the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies because the SPD is the priority of decent people, the support of decent people to have more money, security and justice, and we do not agree with the priorities that the government of Petr Fiala, who is behind me, is now the Prime Minister, because when you look at the past month, you are with the government for a few weeks, so basically the only priorities that we see here, is to push through the pandemic law, which you want to limit another constitution guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, you want to limit these other rights and freedoms of citizens from March 1, so - and I will get to that - while European countries are relaxing and returning to normal life gradually, so your one of the main concerns is how to push through the pandemic law, which you would still restrict other rights and freedoms of citizens. Well, of course, we cannot agree with that, we do not agree with that, because, for the SPD, for example, the priority is the solution to the price increase. Your government - and the Prime Minister prefers to leave, because I've already asked him face-to-face here last time that the Prime Minister personally promised that you would submit a plan to resolve the price increase by the end of December. It was a lie, you didn't submit anything, and citizens get expensive bills, everything gets expensive, gas, electricity, food, but the government doesn't offer help. So your top priority here in the last month is that you want to push through the pandemic law, which you want to limit other constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Another priority that you have here, and we really do not agree with that - that it is a priority that should be a priority for citizens of the Czech Republic - is that you want to push through the correspondence option. That was already here, the law. It is a good thing that the SPD has taken action in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we have prevented negotiations here at least in January, because your coalition is falling preferences - according to the survey we have seen and broadcast by Nova, your coalition is already trusted by only 26% of the citizens. Your coalition's support is falling steeply and you are afraid that you will no longer succeed in the elections, which is why you want to change the way elections are held in the Czech Republic, which also allows manipulation and fraud. This has been seen in Austria, that because of the problem of the correspondence choice, the second round of the last Austrian presidential elections was repeated, even the correspondence elections were cancelled in France. That's your other concern. So, first of all, you want to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens, even though there are no conditions here - there is no reason to do so, but yours is the only concern or one of the main concerns. The second thing you're proposing here is a correspondence change to correspondence elections, and we all know that citizens abroad can vote today at the representative offices, and if it's a priority for someone that he's living abroad long term and he's not living here with us in the Czech Republic, I'd expect his priority if he wants to vote, then he's going to go to the representative office, even if it were to go on. And your third priority, which is here, and we do not agree with that, and that is why we are going to propose really changes to the agenda - even if what I'm about to say is not on the agenda of the meeting, but it outlines the whole situation - is that at the end of January, Madam Secretary of the Environment Hubáčková announces a national bird contest in accordance with your programming statement. So you're throwing in energy, you're throwing in public money - I've got nothing against a bird, but I'm sure it can't be your major priority at the very beginning when there's a need to deal with the expensive. So you guys are announcing a national cock contest here, and now we're hearing a public space debate that distracts attention, instead of solving the upheaval, and you don't want to deal with that. If it's a falcon, many citizens say that your government would be more suited to a magpie or an eagle or something. That means, I think you're distracting somewhere else. I think it's the weakest government since 1989, because especially in the context that you've been promising for a year - it's a year, it's February - it's been more than a year since you've started publicly promising that you're ready to deal with programming and personnel, and that you're going to deal with the auction and other things, and you haven't prepared anything at all. Nothing at all! And now, because of you, even because of you, we are in a budgetary commission where the ministries cannot even invest enough, yet we need to invest from the crisis. Since you tricked the voters again that you said you were ready before the elections, and you didn't even have any amendments prepared for the budget, you didn't have anything prepared at all. So we're here in the budget commission, it takes you two months - to get there - it takes you two months, it will also be one proposal to change the agenda of the meeting to discuss it here - it takes you two months to create something, because you didn't have anything prepared, and of course citizens suffer because of your incompetence. Well, the incompetence... You're capable because you already had enough to create three new ministerial posts, because there were fifteen of them, now there are eighteen, because you're in a five-calice, well, you need more corsets, because there weren't enough for five political parties, so you're sitting in two rows in the House, I haven't seen it yet, because you can't even fit in. But there you added 70 million crowns, while still in December you promised - or it was in November - you lied in the media that the new seats of the three ministers would be no extra cost for the public register. And all of a sudden we see, boom, 70 million extra, so that three unnecessary ministers have an apparatus for politically deserved collaborators. [[14.20 hours]] Well, it's really scary, your priorities. That's why I'm talking about this, that the SPD here will present the priorities of another that we imagine to be dealing with here. And last but not least, and I will also mention this about the design of the points that I propose here, you want to dominate Czech Television and Czech Radio. You want to control Czech Television and Czech Radio politically! A normal political coup, when you basically want to now, you plan to call off the entire Czech Television and Czech Radio Council and place only people who are politically in your hands. It's incredible, it's totalitarian. This is such an undemocratic act that you're going to do here, that basically - I knew it wouldn't be your government, not much, and I am - so he was actually Prime Minister Petr Fiala was right because he promised change, Petr Fiala promised change, but he didn't tell the citizens that it would be a change for worse, he had already withheld it. And now your constituents are not often enough to stare, because many of them address us because of the pandemic law, because they just don't want the law. Even as we know, the pandemic law, your government law, doesn't even want your own senators. That means there was a division in the government where the government no longer has support for its own senators a few weeks after the election. And that's really on demise, because the problem is that you think it's okay. But it would be okay if you did it somewhere in a private firm, but that's what you're starting to make of it - for yourself in your pockets, yes, but there's no time left for citizens. But it's not okay for citizens to walk expensive bills, everything gets expensive, citizens don't have time, and they need a government that has support, and they're gonna deal with it. So the takeover of Czech Television and Czech Radio, which you are planning here under proxy reasons, is really perhaps the hardest blow, the hardest blow ever to freedom and democracy, one of the hardest strikes of freedom and democracy since 1989. I have spoken about this today, about what you are doing with our SPD Member Jaroslav Bašta, who, as we know, is the only signatory to the Charter in this Chamber of Deputies and is also the only political prisoner and dissident in this Chamber of Deputies. Jaroslav Bašta told me at lunch a moment ago that totalitarianism is really coming back with your government, and there is no other person in the House who could judge it as much as Jaroslav Bašta, who was in prison for his political views in the 1970s and is a signatory of the Charter. So if such a person, the former Ambassador of the Czech Republic in Ukraine, the former Ambassador of the Czech Republic in Russia, the ex-minister and dissident, a brave man, says that after 30 years at the start of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, I think it is not at all, it is not funny at all. It's not funny at all, where you're going with us in a few weeks, where you're here, with your government, where the Czech Republic is going. It's a really big raised finger, and I think you should have a little - this is the government of Petr Fiala, who has already left in the meantime because he doesn't want to look me in the eye - well, you're laughing here, the government coalition, but the Prime Minister, as we've noticed, is always hiding in his camper here on the ground floor, two-man... [[Incomprehensible remarks from the bench in front of the speaker's desk, Mr Okamura turns behind him.]] It doesn't sit behind your back, what you're talking about. . [[From the diaper:... that he can't look into the eyes]] I don't know, I don't think you can see through that counter that your Prime Minister isn't sitting here, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u7	Please don't shout from the bench.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u8	Yes, exactly, don't yell at me because the MP is talking to the microphone and I'm following the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure Act, I'm talking to the microphone, you're not talking to him. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] So here I must commend Madam President, Madam President, that she has correctly interpreted the Rules of Procedure. Well, at least one compliment at a time. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] So, what I was going to say: maybe after my warnings from the past, you've refined your work in the House's leadership, and that's a good thing. That's good. So, back to the subject. So the Prime Minister is actually here in the House, I've already noticed it in the past, but he's reserved an office down here on the ground floor. You can tell by the fact that there's this two-man security guard in front of her, and he's there, he's sitting there, but he doesn't have the guts to sit here so he doesn't face a direct confrontation. And that's the interesting thing about the whole thing, okay? Of course he's here because he doesn't know when to vote on the pandemic law that you gave - you want to put - first into the program, but he doesn't want to be here in the House, because he just doesn't mentally manage to confront himself here and watch a political confrontation right here. Political confrontation, no other. So it's all the more trivial that even here there's no courage from the government to look straight in the eye and explain these things like a guy with a guy, opinionally, look into the eyes and see each other's opinions, opinionally, democratically, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the House's Rules of Procedure Act. And now, of course, because you basically want to propose and promote these four priorities, as I said, you want further restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms from 1 March, you want to introduce correspondence elections because you are afraid that you will no longer succeed in the elections, which is why you want to influence them, and your candidates, therefore, do not fit in with the current system. We in the SPD do not have preference problems, such as pirát, TOP 09 or KDU-ČSL, which are either below 5% of the threshold or are balancing at 5% of the border. So maybe it will sometimes, but it's not now, we don't know. I admit that politics is fickle, once upstairs, once downstairs. I'm being honest, and we don't know how it's gonna be in four years, of course. But at this point, the SPD certainly doesn't have any reason to push for a manipulative choice here that allows fraud, because we're not afraid of our outcome in elections in the sense that we have to change, bend the laws to our advantage, as your government coalition does. And I always have to laugh completely, it's really funny how President Pekarová is always trying here - I don't want to say by your means, but I think I'm speaking politely here towards you and factually - that she says that the SPD doesn't want a correspondence choice because we're afraid that we don't have voters abroad. [[He's laughing.]] Yeah, well, that's a perfectly brilliant reversal of the problem, because the TOP 09 is either below 5% in the polls, or it's balancing at 5% of the border. We don't really have desperate preferences yet, so whoever's afraid is exactly these three sides. But she's most of the parties in the government coalition, that's what needs to be translated. It is three of the five parties in the government coalition, without which this coalition could not exist, this coalition would fall. This needs to be stressed and this needs to be realised. That means, it's not that I'm talking about three sides with preferences of 3 to 5 % or 3 to 6 %, but I'm talking about that, in sum, this government could not exist without these parties. That is why, of course, two other coalition parties are logically adding to this request, typically ODS, which, in my opinion, would not need it so much, but also want the correspondence option hard because they want, are one group of TOP 09, of course, because it is also the Brussels side, it is actually the Eurohujer side, TOP 09, and the ODS are hand in hand with the Brussels, Eurohujer side. That's exactly the same thing between those parties, which is why we're going to make a correspondence choice together. It's not the conservative ODS, it's pro-brussels, it's the normal Brussels side, so that's why it's here. For this reason, I would like to propose here, I would say, a series of points that are once again a priority for us. For you, it is a competition for a national bird, a correspondence choice, a political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio for licence fees from citizens, and then it is a pandemic law. For us in the SPD, it is a completely different law, which we, on the contrary, advocate. Of course, these laws will be expressed and gradually proposed by our Members. Of course, the SPD will come out in full because we have 21 laws in place, we need to reopen the opposition window here, and we are also opening it with this because it is necessary for citizens to hear and compare the wrong priorities of this government and the priorities that the SPD has. Of course, this will be the subject of our fellow Members. [[14.30 hours]] We're going to propose that it be included in the agenda of the meeting, for example, the freezing of politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term, because you've added for your government coalition. Because of your government coalition, from 1. 1. 2022, since last month, the salaries of politicians have increased by 6 percent because you rejected the SPD proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. So you've added 6% to yourself, you've added CZK 70 million to your own budget for your three newly created ministers, and you're adding CZK 70 million to the apparatus for those worthy of your parties and other related people, plus 70 million to those three ministers, but you don't have the citizens left. I'll get to that, but on the other hand, in your budget, you're suggesting that you lower fare discounts for students and seniors. On the contrary, the SPD supports fare discounts when everything gets expensive. You, on the other hand, increase the benefits inadaptable, increase the contribution to the European Union by CZK 2 billion, so you spend full handfuls of public money on the European Union, but not to solve the price for citizens, for example, to reduce VAT to energy, that is not, or to do zero VAT on basic foods like Polák, it is not. But since you are servile and obedient to Brussels and don't think about our citizens, but about foreign interests, of course you are adding that to our citizens, and not to our citizens. But we say it's wrong. We're here to promote the freezing of politicians' salaries, because the average salaries are high and politicians should set an example. But you don't want it, you let politicians' salaries go up. So it will be one of our proposals, which our Members will also make to include on the agenda of this meeting, because you are still putting off this law. Of course, this has already been voted on, because in January, when we voted on our amendment to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term, you rejected the government's five-calice vote because you want to sax full sips, but you don't let the citizens have anything more, more in their pocket, to make them live better. Another proposal that our Members will also propose, and it must certainly be discussed here, is an increase in the contribution to the care of the disabled. Why am I talking about this? Because I had no idea that it would be so bad with your government that it would be such a really antisocial government against decent people, because you are not only refusing to increase the contribution to care for the disabled - which has not increased for several years now, it has not increased for several years, so the disabled people who need help are basically unable to pay for the help, because, of course, everything has become even more expensive in the meantime - but even you are taking money from disabled people in the budget, as we have noticed. You're even taking it down! That's completely unbelievable. So not only are you not going to add -- yeah, you can say a hundred times that you don't want to add -- but you're even taking it down, which is totally scary. By the way, you're cutting back on the budget to the single moms as part of the so-called substitute maintenance, and this is about the kids too! That means children who are put into a socially difficult situation without their doing, that's what this is about, so you're definitely throwing them overboard, but it's not the children's fault! These priorities that you have, when you add to the European Union, you add to yourself, you add to the inadaptable, but you reduce the disabled, you damage the children, you damage the elderly... Well, we don't really agree with that in the SPD! So the next proposal that we will definitely propose here, and it will be presented by our Members, and we want it to be included in the agenda for this meeting, put forward so that we can finally discuss it here, is a proposal by the SPD to increase the contribution to care for the disabled. Another proposal, which we will definitely propose as our priority, is the termination of the abuse of social benefits inadaptable. I'm about to get even wider because there's a really incredible situation here, when they turned to me as chairman of the petition committee, yesterday I received a letter - and I can already say it because it was already in the media yesterday, without even knowing it, it was the main article on the iDNES server, by the way. I have received a petition from basically desperate citizens - in a good way, I do not mean that they are desperate, that they are bad, but desperately the citizens turn to Parliament in the form of a petition to the House, that - and it concerns the town of Bílina in the Ústí Region, where they have a problem with the inadaptable, quote, here the petition organizer Jiřina Malá writes: "There is a mess, people are afraid to leave their homes during the day. We want something to change." Citizens, decent people write that they are afraid in the Czech Republic to come out of their homes. And the interesting thing about this whole thing is-- and here I would suggest a first point, and I would already name it, that I'm proposing a discussion on the SPD bill to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. That's one point. Then, of course, another point will come to our Member, who will propose that the law be put forward as such. But I want a point to be proposed here - and let us propose it as the first point at this Chamber of Deputies meeting - a debate over the SPD law to end the abuse of ill-adaptable doses. And the problem is that there's been an incredible situation here, I have to say... or you know what, I would say, let's put that point another way, I would name it another way, because that law will be put forward by our MP Šafránková, who is the author of the law for us, but let's discuss the problem. So I would call it: Discussion of an unbearable situation with inadaptable in cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic. So I ask, Madam President, I say this again: There is no discussion of an unbearable situation with inadaptable cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic - the government is not taking place. That's what I'd call it. The government doesn't, the government doesn't solve the situation. That's what I'd call it. I beg you, not "government doesn't" but "government doesn't solve the situation," I will ask you, because here it needs to be emphasized that you, as Prime Minister of the coalition, if you will be here, have repeated it when you read it, when we vote on it to tell yourselves, you realized that you weren't really doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u9	Sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask you, since you've changed that name about three times in a minute, if you'd like to give it to us in writing. It will be the surest solution, so that we can say it correctly when we vote on it, so that you are satisfied with what the proposal sounds like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u10	Madam President, I'm not going to jump at your request. It is not in the Rules of Procedure that I should put it in writing, so I would ask you, on the contrary, that I will repeat it to you once more and you have noted it. It is not in the Rules of Procedure that I have written. Thank you for the request, I'd like to oblige you, if it was one suggestion, I don't want to cause any trouble here, but since I have about ten points, I can't remember it here. That's why I'm gonna say it three times, I'm really into it. You're right, or I'd have given it to you in writing, but I've got about ten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u11	Okay. So once again, I'm going to ask you to repeat how you want this new point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, I will say this slowly, so: The discussion of an unbearable situation with inadaptable cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic - the government refuses to address the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u14	Thank you. And really, don't be mad at me, because if it's one or two points, I'll bring it to you, it's really not a problem. You said right, I was in charge of the meeting, too. I know it helped me. Unfortunately, because I'm putting it here during my speech to make it right, because I have ten points, I'm not able to give it to you in writing, I'm sorry. I'm making this up so that it's properly formulated. So it's just not possible as technically. I'm sorry. Let's move on. This is where the situation happened, imagine that the petition came in, and I say again, I'm already talking about it publicly, because yesterday it was also as the main article on iDNES, otherwise I wouldn't discuss it here, but now it's public information. So there's a petition from citizens who say they're afraid to come out of their homes during the day, and they want something to change, and at the same time people mention the huge mess that's going on there, there's these inadaptable, loud music, destroying foreign property, and like selling drugs in broad daylight right out of windows. But what's interesting about this whole situation, which is why I think it's here at this point, because at the same time a letter came from Bílina's leadership, from the mayor - coincidentally she's the mayor for the YES movement, Mrs Bařtipánová - and from the city leaders, and they respond to it that way, which is remarkable, but that's exactly what illustrates the situation that "we refuse to bear sole responsibility for something that we cannot influence by legal instruments. Our options are very limited and very hard to enforce." The petition, to make you understand, is for the appeal of the city's leadership, but the city's leadership defends itself, and I must say that it defends itself by saying that "our options are very limited and very hard to enforce" and that the municipalities have almost no competence in their hands and that the authorities have no authority over adequate intervention and defence of the mayor's people, according to the mayor, neither the city or state police. That is why, at the same time, the city leadership responds at the same time by reaching out to the legislator, to us in the House, by an open letter, saying that they believe that the responsibility for the situation lies mainly with those who create the rules for social benefits and also the legislative space for so-called trade in poverty. So they very rightly point out that there is such bad legislation here that cities are not able to adequately resolve the situation with unadaptable ones. And that is exactly what the SPD movement has been saying all along, because, as you know - those who are here from the last parliamentary term - the SPD has proposed a comprehensive law here - and I thank you that some of the other parties have soon started working on it - and we have proposed a complete law where 70 changes are needed to end the abuse of benefits that are not adaptable. We've been pushing this place for almost three years, and you all know it, who's been here since last term. I have to be honest here, there's been an YES movement in the government for eight years, but they haven't solved the situation. They didn't even deal with her, they didn't deal with her. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we then began to cooperate, and I must commend them again, on our bill to end the abuse of benefits inadaptable. But this is the five-calice, this is the five-calice, because among you are the ones who have blocked our bill to end the abuse of the benefits that are inadaptable. [[The speaker turns and shows.]] Čižinský was a KDU-ČSL MP, he's not here anymore, but they were folklore, and then they were pirát. She was primarily a Member of the Pirates Olga Richterová, who is now Vice-President of the House for Pirates - Vice-President of the House, even though they have only four Members. And it was this MP Olga Richterová from the Pirates that was the most active one here, along with her brother Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who is no longer here in the House - there the voters have already evaluated it and failed in the House elections that they don't want it anymore, said the pirate voters - but Mrs Olga Richterová here even got an even higher post for this, among other things evidently for her work in the last Chamber of Deputies. And basically, the only visible work we've seen is blocking the SPD bill to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. [[Member Michálek claps.]] Yes, so does Mr. Pirates Michálek. Well, go ahead, that's okay. I'm glad we're in agreement that you blocked it. Of course, you don't agree with our bill, we all know that. So, Mrs Olga Richterová, the Pirate MP, has blocked this place. And it is this MP and his brother Mikuláš Ferjenčík of the pirát that blames what the citizens here write in this petition. Of course, they were also supported by five koalices in a negative opinion during the last parliamentary term. But the pirát, the pirát are the ones who can basically say it politically short for what's going on in White. By the way, in order for the government to start dealing with the problems of social welfare for housing with inadaptables, this was requested by representatives of Chomutov, Kadana, Klášterec nad Ohří, Jirkova, then Úpice in the Králové Hradec Region, there I was even personally to familiarize myself with the issue. Also, if you remember, it was about three years ago, they sent a letter to all of us in the Chamber of Deputies with a desperate request to solve the problem. The SPD responded that it prepared an amendment to the bill to end the abuse of doses inadaptable, but you all bailed. That's why we here want to put this item on the agenda, because it's just a problem, it's an actual problem, it's a big problem. And when almost a thousand people in a small town sign a petition that they're already desperate to live together, and you don't want to deal with it, and there's only 20 out of 180 of us in the SPD, and even though we're outnumbered, the SPD will fight for decent citizens. [[right out of 200]] We will fight to the last breath and we will try to convince you that there is a need to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. Our bill allows everyone to adapt. We don't want anyone to stay unprotected. But all we do is adjust the boundaries so that we can give room to motivate the so-called unadapted to adapt. I think it's an old-fashioned proverb that the pirát rewrote, because when I was a kid, my relatives always told me at home, "There's no pie without work." My mom from Moravia told me. But the pirát' motto is, without a job, there are pies. After all, the number of political representatives at the ministries illustrates this. Those who criticized as if in front of the elections of the political newsrooms are now grunting at the corsets to the fullest and are political vice-president - Pirates. So the pirát turned around and, of course, they're silent. I'll get to that, too. The behaviour of the pirát, who in the government are the fifth wheel around the car because the government does not need them, because even without their four MEPs they have a majority, is the appointment of Miroslav Kalousek to the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Company VZP. I'm gonna get to that, because I'm gonna suggest it as a point to discuss it here, because that's the way to make a goat a gardener, I don't think I've ever seen it before. And the pirát were those who criticized Miroslav Kalousek during the last parliamentary term, and now, in exchange for warm corsets, for their positions at the ministries and in the leadership of the House, suddenly silent and no longer silent, when Miroslav Kalousek was appointed to the leadership of the largest Czech health insurance company, which has a budget of over CZK 250 billion a year, almost CZK 260 billion, and in the leadership of this organization is the government under the approval of the pirát - Pirates, they said: We abstained or what about the government. Well, if you don't agree, then step away from the government! But you guys chose a corset. So leave the government if you so principledly disagree that Miroslav Kalousek is in VZP! [[In an elevated voice.]] But you won't, because you don't really care. [[14.50 hours]] Well, I'd rather have hot spots, political newsrooms than principles, they're pirát. So Miroslav Kalousek is now newly appointed, he's already there, he's already on the web General Health Insurance Company, I looked in person yesterday just to be sure. He's already there and he's already in control, he's already one of the people in charge of the General Health Insurance Company, where there's over 250 billion budget. Well, I think we all know, and the citizens know that Mr Kalousek is very good at counting quotes. But do we have to ask for the benefit of who? And I think that, of course, the citizens will answer for themselves. I have a number of citizens writing to me, and I think that the government is directly harming public health through this seemingly inconspicuous step, but I think it is a very striking step, and it needs to be reminded of the behaviour of the pirát who are in the government, and that Miroslav Kalousek is in charge of the VZP, because I am being written by a number of citizens and look - who wants, but I do not force you to do this - if you look at the discussions on my social networks for example, so many people write that they will leave the General Health Insurance Company because you put Miroslav Kalousek in charge. And I think you're already hurting, you're hurting by this - I know you don't care, Petr Fiala's government - but in this way you're already directly harming the public health sector in the Czech Republic. But I don't want to overdo it right now, because, of course, where you're really hurting him even more, it's still going to happen here, because these are your cuts in the state budget that threaten health care in the Czech Republic. So this is really important, and I want to place this point here to discuss this intolerable situation. Well, if the government's five-calice votes against this point, it's equal and it's confirmed that you support inadaptable and you're not on the side of citizens. Not only this point, but also the point proposed by Lucie Šafránková, who will propose a firm inclusion of that point, our law to end abuse of the benefits inadaptable. So this is the first point that I would like to propose, because of course the problem is extremely serious and it's up-to-date, it's... The news, it has been going on for a long time, of course, but now there are others in a desperate situation, there are decent citizens here, in Bílina, in the Ústí Region, and could tell our MP Jaroslav Foldyna about it, who has been dealing with this problem in the Ústí Region for a long time, and people are also voting it out and working to improve the conditions, but there are only twenty of us, there are twenty Mohicans against most, and when you throw a stick under our feet, of course we can't solve it here. So this is a problem that is in the cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic, where there are huge problems with inadaptable ones. Here I remember someone here from the political opponents asking me awkward questions - and he confessed out of his own ignorance that man, those people, there have been a few of them, there's always someone here telling me, and I don't even remember the names - who are the inadaptable ones, let me define it. Well, that's a simple definition in one sentence. I don't know why I have to tell anyone, but it just shows you're from Mars, that you're here in the House Aquarium, and you don't know what kind of problems the citizens are having. Inadaptable is the one who is skilled, does not work in the long term, does not long-term seek work and has made a life program out of using the social system. I mean, the definition is pretty simple. Everyone has the right to be unemployed in the short term, and they pay for unemployment insurance, and so on, that's not what the problem is. But this, what I said, these criteria, they're pretty clear, and I don't know, I don't know, how can anyone ask me that they don't understand if he's that stupid, pardon me - and now I'm not saying anything wrong because I'm not talking about someone in particular, okay? So this is really incredible, this. It's just this, this is the definition, and it has absolutely no connection to the color of the skin or anything else, it has nothing to do with it. So this is our next point. So that's the first point I'm proposing here. Well, of course, our Members will be proposing further our priorities, because the fact of the pandemic law, which you want to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens from 1 March, and you are still threatening an emergency situation if it is not - well, that is just crazy, that is not normal. Yeah, people here are looking forward to taking off the drapes, living normally, and going back to normal lives, and threatening emergency situations, even though there are no conditions at all. So we have different priorities here, like the SPD. Our next priority is to... end the abuse of social benefits, increase the contributions to the disabled... yes, we want to increase tax reductions on the taxpayer. Why are you giving extra 2 billion to the European Union? On the contrary, we want to support working families with children. I've heard from someone here too, somebody here used to say to me, "How can the government affect wages in the private sector?" I really don't understand if some government officials here are that stupid, or are they saying that on purpose, or are they just playing dumb? Of course, a government and a government coalition can increase citizens' salaries in the private sector, for example by increasing the discount on the taxpayer! [[In an elevated voice.]] It's so simple, I don't understand what's not clear! I can't believe this. After all, the increase isn't just that you increase the nominal value of the salary, the increase is that you leave more in people's purses, but I don't think anyone here gets that. It's the same with food. The Polák reduced VAT to 0 per cent of basic food and, of course, the income of Polák increased, because the basic foods were cheaper, even though their salary remained the same. I don't know what's illogical about that. I don't get it. Someone doesn't understand. This really shows that there are mostly career politicians in the government coalition, because if you were from a business sphere like me or from a management sphere, then you would know that the path of cost reduction can also, of course, be a way to increase profits, but that's probably too much for some of the leaders who are lifelong politicians. Bohuslav Sobotka was quite typical of this, wasn't he? He was typical, I had seen him before, but he really didn't know which beats, and it turned out that way, because they're people who've basically been politicians all their lives. So, of course, we want to increase tax reductions on the taxpayer, and it's supposed to apply - it's logical - that it's only going to apply to people who work, of course, that's clear, because who else would have a tax discount than the one who has a tax at all... or is simply a taxpayer, that's what I'd say. So that is what we want, that is our priority, and on the contrary, we want the increased costs to be cut into the European Union. That's just complete nonsense, and here I have to return another one -- well, that's total nonsense that somebody was telling me the other day on TV, I don't know who it was, that we're supposed to lose funding if we step away from Green Deal here, the green deal that's going to make it more expensive. And I answer that: what does an ordinary person have in subsidies when they don't have electricity and basic food? I don't get it at all. I mean, the subsidies are useless if a citizen doesn't get into his wallet in a way that he has a decent life and that he can have a good standard of living. So the rich guys are gonna get funding, yeah, you mean? But he won't get back on the good ones? [[tho]] Is that an argument he won't get? That's quite a frightening argument. What do people from membership of the European Union have when people do not have and will not have, a number of people, energy and basic needs? [[In an elevated voice.]] I don't understand, it just shows that many live here on Mars somewhere - well, on Mars, God knows what it looks like - but they just live here somewhere in their elite environment, but they don't realize that a regular person who doesn't have the essential needs of life and turns every crown, and there are plenty of them in the Czech Republic because of your current governments and current government, so he doesn't really care about the subsidies because he needs to support himself and his family. That's what it is, so please don't argue that we're losing some subsidies when the vast majority of people have nothing at all. Yes, maybe STAN's sponsors have something from the subsidies. Those are the ones that are needed in Cyprus, okay? Maybe so, maybe not, but that's my guess, because when they're in the solar business, I think it's obvious that it's a grant business. But that's public information, but I'll get to that, too. I'll get to that, too, with the STAN movement, which I'm also prepared here as a point, because there are a number of unexplained things. So we want -- and so will our MP here, too, I think it's Jan Hrnčíř -- no, it's still Lucka Šafránková, it's an increase in tax discounts on the taxpayer. [[15.00 hours]] We also have other proposals to change the agenda of the meeting, and that is a minimum pension - a minimum dignified pension. It's all the laws that are already passed here in the House, which is why we're gonna want those laws to come forward because it's really not ours... we don't want to restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens like the government's five-caliber. We want people to have better lives to regroup money with decent people. So here we have a minimum dignified pension. Of course, our Members will come forward to propose inclusion, but this is a law that applies in a number of countries of the European Union, yes, Europe. And that's because they realized that for pensions below the minimum wage or below the poverty line, she's plus minus a similar amount in the Czech Republic, around 15,000 a month, that you can't just live for them when someone has a pension of 10,000, they didn't say below, which are also citizens. And it's a crazy situation, and governments don't care, they don't want to deal with it. There's just a minimum dignified pension, we propose under legal conditions, that is, years worked or disability. So, of course, the inadaptable would get nothing, that's true. And from that amount of credit. So we're going to want to include it, too, because what's the point of a low-income pensioner that you're sending billions to the European Union when he's basically living like a loser, he lives like a beggar. It's a shame, it's a shame. And we're on the side of decent people, that is, those who either work or have already worked, or maybe they have some disability, and maybe they can't work. We're on their side, we're on the students' side, and we're on the other side, but you're not on their side. That's why you're proposing a pandemic law, that's your priority, we're wasting our time here. And now I've even heard desperate rumors and cries that the SPD is blocking the work of the House to the government. And you didn't bring any law! What kind of law did you bring to support disabled people? What kind of five-calice government law did you bring to support families with children? There isn't one! How? Who's blocking? You didn't bring anything! After all, what you are presenting here as a priority is a correspondence choice that brings nothing to people in the Czech Republic, even to people in the Czech Republic, nothing, literally, literally nothing! It just brings you the opportunity to use manipulation and all that, because you're worried about your election result. Then you're presenting a pandemic law, you're doing a national cock contest, and you want to dominate Czech television. But there's no law of yours! I would be so kind as to ask the representatives or ask you - I will not beg you, but I would ask you - not to lie in the media and say that something is staying here when you haven't presented anything yourself! Even the expensive solution - you said you'd submit by the end of December, and you didn't. I mean, the whole nation knows that you didn't bring anything, because everyone sees the bills. And they see how the Polák and the Maďar, where the patriotic governments are, are really dealing with it, and they've already cheaper food, fuel, and so on. You're not doing anything, government five-wheelers, you're only doing it for yourself, and that's the problem. So don't say it again, please, that someone is stalling something here, the House's work, because the only thing holding her back is you, because you have a majority here, and most of the time you can design and pronounce any laws for citizens of the Czech Republic. But the problem is, you didn't design any. That's why you have no choice but to think that someone's stalling, but if anyone asks you about what's stalling - well, the pandemic law, we don't want it, we said it, and the government senators don't want it, it turns out. Even the government senators don't want him when the SPD's words were confirmed. But we'll get to all that, because if we get here - or at the moment we get there - to discuss the pandemic law, of course, we'll discuss this further, these matters. So I'm not gonna discuss it now if we dismantle them after. At the same time, I would like to strongly ask you, and I will say this now: that I have heard that the five-police government wants to limit speaking time totalitarianly in the debate over the pandemic law, so that SPD members cannot express themselves, restrict it to five minutes, or two or five minutes. I hear that's what you're planning to do, silence the opposition. Even the senators voted against, but you want to shut up completely, totally control this place. You would like the opposition not to go to the House at all in my opinion so that you can vote for everything yourself. You'd like us to be some puppets. We are here two opposition parties, I will not speak for any other party, I will speak for myself, I am not a spokesperson for any other party - I have a number of KDU-ČSL speakers and other parties who always say what I say, always lie, and then I ask them not to speak for me, that I do not need a free speaker here to speak for me and explain our views that we will tell ourselves. So that's what I'm asking you to do. Really, we don't need any speakers in your ranks to explain the SPD's positions, really, don't do that. So all I'm saying is that what you're proposing here, and we're going to make a more detailed statement on the pandemic law, but I'm warning you about it, really, and democratically. I can't tell you, I'm warning you, and then what? We're 20. But I am telling you that it is not democratic and right for any of you to suggest it, and I can see it now - typically I would expect it from the President of the House of Mrs Pekarová Adamová, because she has such a desire to limit opposition always, and she gets upset. At the same time, they themselves were in opposition, just like us, in the last parliamentary term, and no one was restricting them. I haven't taken your word for it in my life, the five-police government, in my life, and there was a gunfight, as you remember, between Mr Kalousek and Mr Babiš, the MP, I was just driving the House, and there were tougher words falling, and I didn't do it because I'm a Democrat and I always let you all talk, and you all have to testify to that. I even talked, you came to me, many of you out of the five-calice to me, to take away somebody's word. Remember, you came to me, remember. And I said, "I don't want to do this because I'm glad everyone here on this microphone can express themselves democratically. I know the names that came to me, but I'm not gonna say it, it's all on the cameras anyway. And remember, I told you, no, I want it to be democratic, I'm not taking anybody's word away. It is basically the only place in the Czech Republic where you can say exactly what you want. Here's the microphone, here's basically the immunity idol for the microphone. And I didn't limit any of you. So remember how we approached it when we were in charge of the House. You could always rely on this House as it was your five-wheeler, so it was the opposition that when Okamura was running the meeting, so that you were always sure that you could say what you wanted, even though many of you spoke for a really long time. Even some of you were talking like I was basically the one hour and a half of the meeting running around here, and then we take turns, and then we take turns, and I almost didn't even get to the word, because this one guy was talking all the time. But basically, it's always been like that. I always said, "What else?" What are we all paid for here? To work here, to express democratically the views of voters. Holt didn't fit any of you with those laws, we didn't get many of them. I would just like to remind you that neither the SPD nor I in the House have ever done anything for my time in Parliament, and I have been a senator. Never, not once, I want to remind you. This is the first thing, the pandemic law, where we went into obstruction because it's crucial to us. That is what I would like to stress and recall. Never.! We haven't done anything, unlike you, but I think it's okay, because it's just democracy, and it was your opposition work when you took a 12-hour break here when you didn't want to afford the Czech Television Council. [[15.10 hours]] You were counting on having a majority in the House, and it worked, even if most voters didn't vote for you - we know that because a million votes fell, and it was more of a vote for parties that were opposed to you. But I never did, and that is why I wanted to stress it here, I would really like to stress it, so that you do not suggest it, never to suggest it again, ever, please, within the framework of democracy, that you should not propose it here in such fundamental laws, but also in general - for example, in this pandemic law or in correspondence elections, I would like to stress this - to suggest restrictions on speaking time. It's not going to come back in a good way, certainly not, because a number of voters don't like your undemocratic behavior, you've been doing things here yourself, and now that there's opposition and the situation has turned around, you're basically measuring double standards all of a sudden. So I wanted to ask you to change your mind about the proposal, so that Mr. Excellent here does not suggest it, because it is your spokesperson who always proposes this restriction, he always loses his temper and is angry, he's just angry, he can see it, and he always wants to limit himself in order for opponents or other Members to express themselves democratically. So I wanted to ask you not to do this either, through Madam President, Mr President, Mr Výborný, because I know that you are certainly planning this, and that it would be a good idea for us to let this debate go, especially when we are in line with the best parliamentary culture, unlike many of you, really announced in advance which two laws we are looking for. It's a pandemic law and correspondence choices that are unacceptable to us, so you know, everyone can prepare. We're not doing this on purpose, unlike you, who are constantly doing this on purpose, you're not informing us on purpose, you're not dealing with anyone here on purpose, so that we don't have information, so that you can cut us off from all the information. That's your job, that's your way of doing it, but we've never done it before. Even in the last parliamentary term, many of you came to me asking me how it would be, because I was in charge of the House, and I was always answering you as it would be. You came to me here, a lot of people, and I've always said to you, "Yeah, this is what's going on, this is what's going on, everything that's going on in my power or what I could do, so I wanted it to work here, so that you had information so that the work here was cultivated, so that it was gentlemanly, and that we could all represent our constituents here. I don't know why you stopped doing that. I can explain. It's just a power rush because you haven't been in government for eight years. It's a power rush, but it would be good to think about yourself, because it's just not good. So in this context, I wanted to invite you to set up a slightly different culture here so that we can stop labeling each other, because the complete peak is when they said here, I suspect it was the pirát, Mrs. Richterová, that the SPD is not democratic. In fact, we have only one signatory to Charter 77 throughout the House and the political prisoner, which was not enough for Jaroslav Bašta to shake his head that Mrs Richterová dares, even to her experience, to speak inadequately about the representatives, about the people we have in the MP's club. [[appearance]] It's just not normal! So these insults, these awkward screams - I think it's an opportunity to say it now, because we're probably gonna be here longer tonight. I wanted to ask you if on this occasion, because it is February, we have really three and three quarters of a year ahead of us, if you're going to be here all the time - and of course you're going to stick to your nails, I understand - so it would be good, because in the last term, we've learned to sit at one table, and I remember that recently, we've all been sitting regularly at one table, and remember, we were also in opposition, but your opposition block, the so-called demo block, the five-wheelers, how many times negotiations have been called into the next room outside the Gremium over political things, and what way do you imagine working in the House to some laws. There were many meetings, all of you know - indeed, President Pekarová here was often at those meetings, or almost always, like everyone who was party or club presidents - and that has now been completely cancelled. It was abolished because of the arrogance of power. Democratic respect for each other's voices has been canceled, and it also looks like it's in the House because you're trying to beat everything to power, and now you can't do it, so you're crying and whining in the media. People around me gave you the nickname of a crying government because you're still crying that you're not getting away with something. The question is, what was supposed to go through when there's nothing for people here, but I was already commenting. But most of all, why are you crying when you have 107 MPs? Mr. Farský isn't, so now he's not really, he wasn't before because he cheated on voters and went to America, even though you all knew about it, and now he's not, and he's not new yet, so 107. That's not a poke, that's the fact that it's only 107 now, but it's gonna be 108 again, so you guys can vote everything out here, but the fact that you're crying that 20 SPD MPs are pushing our political agenda here because our voter doesn't want a pandemic law - it's totally legitimate - and he doesn't want a correspondence election. And now you're screaming and trying to limit our speaking time, completely undemocratic and totalitarian. This is not a democratic political culture at all, and above all, it is not polite behavior on your part, because you yourselves have done the same in the last parliamentary term. I thought that you were fair and that they were measured by everyone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that they were measured democratically in the same way. So I wanted to call you on this occasion so that, and it is always an opportunity, nothing is lost, but I think it is a challenge especially for the President of the House of Markéta Pekarová Adamová - because you are the President now, I do not know if by your means, because I find it comical when I address you by your means - but I will not say, of course, as is my custom, nothing rude at all, on the contrary, unlike, for example, how Mr Kalousek spoke here, but I just wanted to say that it might be good to think about this opportunity and a little bit of normalizing relations here, and above all, it is necessary to respect that we are all elected citizens here and the voice of citizens has the same weight. I think it is important to start with this respect that all citizens have the same weight, the voice of citizens has the same weight. Of course, at the moment when this crucial premise is not respected here, and the five-wheelers say that some electoral votes have a different weight, so any discussion is hardly possible, of course. That's pretty obvious. Everyone defends their voter and sees their voter as the voter they're supposed to stand up for and hear. That, of course, is a helpful hand on my part, and now, of course, the question is whether the five-wheelers are gonna whine and cry further, or whether we can actually sit here and talk about it in some way because the SPD wants to enforce good laws for people. We want people to have more money, security and justice, that's all we want. The SPD program is in one sentence: More money, security and justice for people. If I sum it up in one sentence, it's this sentence. And we want a free and sovereign Czech Republic, if I can elaborate on another sentence. I think it would be good for these relationships here in general. Let's move on because I'd like to talk to the program. I'm sure we're here to design the "my house, my castle" bill, too. He will present it for us and propose it as a point by Mr Radek Koten, because the situation is very inadequate today, because citizens are afraid that they will be ambushed at home, so they also have double locks, such as security locks and alarms, or even car alarms and the like, so whoever says they are not afraid, so that is a lie, it is hypocrisy that they are not afraid. If any of you Members were to say that there's no need for this law, because that would mean that you don't have a home invasion insurance paid, so it's okay that you don't have a security pad in the castle or anything like that. That's not true. So our law "my house, my castle" contains that we want to shift citizens' rights to the possibility of necessary self-defense. This means, in a nutshell, and it will also be presented by our Member Radek Koten, and he will explain in detail the reason for this, because when presenting the programme, it is to be said, so I stress the need to speak to the point. [[15.20 hours]] So our Members will be speaking to the point. That is why, of course, the explanatory memorandum is pointless. I hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u15	Perhaps you, Mr President, could speak to what you wish to propose, because so far you have proposed one point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u16	Well, I have that priority right, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u17	Yes, you do, but you too are covered by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u18	I have a priority right, and if you remember, so maybe you guys were married, maybe something happened in the world, so you suggested a minute of silence about it, right at this very moment at the beginning of the meeting you suggested, even though it wasn't for the agenda and nothing, and we all made it possible, we stood up and honored the minute of silence. So, as far as the subject matter is concerned, the length is not mentioned in the Rules of Procedure at all, is it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u19	However, Article 59 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty provides for the application of Article 59 (1) of the EC Treaty. 4, you also have priority rights, and I would like to call on you to do so. So please talk to the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u20	I'm talking. If you want to take my word for it, say it now, because I'd like to get to the program's suggestions. If you want to take my word for it, take my word for it and start shutting me up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u21	I don't want anything like that. I'm just challenging you under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u22	Okay, well, in that case, don't interrupt me to abide by the Rules of Procedure, because the interruption of the speaker has, but, Madam President, I've already told Mrs Richterová, the exact parameters...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u23	Of course, and that's why I'm calling you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u24	If I am not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, do not interrupt me! It is - I think the Rules of Procedure are very clear in this. So either I'm in violation, and you can interrupt, or I'm not in violation, and you just said yourself you don't want to take my word away. So now I don't understand why I'm interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u25	I'm warning you for the first time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u26	So let's move on now, shall we? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u27	There you go. Speak to the point, though!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u28	Well, I'm just not gonna nod to a subjective interpretation here. I want to design a program here, and I'm not limited in time. That's not in the Rules of Procedure. And subjective assessment - and again, I would like to ask you, the House's leadership, not to subjectively judge who is speaking to the point, who is not, if there is an explanation for, for example, the explanatory statement. That's the point. But let's keep going. So, "my house, my castle." Of course, this is what we're going to propose for the program here, because today is the problem that when citizens are ambushed at home, they're afraid to even defend themselves because they're not sure whether it's adequate defense or not. See now the ambush of the spouses last year in Plzeň alone last night, when they were ambushed by a convicted murderer who was just a parolee. And the poor man, because he was shot with a legally held gun, the man at night - who's supposed to break in? - so basically he's still got huge problems with it and he's had huge problems because months are being assessed here and it's been assessed whether it's a reasonable defense. So what was the guy that the thief was doing there, this robber? Was the gentleman supposed to get himself killed? That means, this is another proposal that we're going to want to put on the agenda of a meeting where we want, in principle, that when someone breaks in, breaks the obstacle, breaks the window, kicks the door open, kicks the door open, and breaks into someone's place, so that the person who's attacked and is at home is always there to be in the right. That's what this is all about, so we're going to suggest it too. Furthermore, we have a proposal to put our bill on the agenda, it concerns copyright fees, because we are not really satisfied with it, and we have already proposed it to the previous government of Andrej Babiš, but it also did not want us to abolish the obligation to pay copyright fees, which is actually such a tax, for small businesses, for a business establishment for which music is not a primary profit. That means, for most establishments, music isn't the primary profit, it's like a backseat. It is for this reason that we would like to assign this law, because we would like to abolish the obligation to pay fees, these are the OSA fees, for business and other establishments, for establishments that have to pay it now, to relieve them, to help businessmen and to help small entrepreneurs. Plus, it doesn't make sense that this has to apply at all. Another proposal that we will also introduce here and want to include him at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, or he is here as a point, of course, it is our law, but we want to assign him, by the way, the nationalisation of executors, because that is a huge problem. And by the way, even because of the price increases that Petr Fiala's government doesn't solve, so what I have information, other and other people get into trouble, by execution, because, for example, when energy vendors went bankrupt, of course, there were various large advances and large payments, and not all citizens were prepared for it. Of course, the situation is problematic, and we think that the bailiffs should become national, such as in Germany. So that's definitely our crucial proposal - nationalisation of executors to straighten out... Of course, debts are to be paid, that is understandable, no one is questioning it, and the system must be set so that it does not eliminate those citizens so that they are then bailed out from social benefits. Then we get into a different situation, where people who are not involved at all, that is, citizens who do not have executions, so then they participate in their taxes in the remediation of citizens who have these problems because of the poorly set-up system. So we want to nationalize the executors, and we want people to have a chance to go back from debt traps to normal life, we want to straighten out the terms so that (a) on the one hand, the debts go back, on the other hand, so that the debtor is not so liquidated that, as a result, the entire social system is burdened, and only the executor has earned, in fact, an attorney. And that, of course, is not a well-set system. We will also want to place our law on the so-called local jurisdiction of executors. Foreign word is the territoriality of executors. I have already advocated this in the pre-last parliamentary term, because this applies, by the way, if I have the right information, in most countries of the European Union, and in Slovakia. And as soon as they introduced it in Slovakia, and combined it with the end of the loan, which is another one of our bills when we want to put interest on it, the annual interest rate, RPSN - by the way, that is also in Slovakia, and that is true in most EU countries - of course we want to end the loan, and that is why, if we do not have loan interest - and there is nothing like that in Bohemia and it is the people and MEPs who are on the part of executor-lender, I would say, clicks - so, of course, when interest is completely inadequate in comparison with other countries in Europe, logically then the likelihood of people being found in debt traps and executions increases. So, to put an end to usury and set the system right, maybe it should be of interest to all of us, too, but the government here just doesn't want it. You just don't want it, you're not on the citizens' side, you're on the executor's side and you're on the loan shark's side, and that's obviously the problem. So that's what we're gonna want, too. Next thing I know, we're gonna want to put the law on a ban on Islamic cover-up in public. It is a law that we have copied, and I confess, from Austria and Denmark, where he has started to pay recently, because they have problems and problems to solve, not when the flood comes, it's just a fool building a dam when the flood comes, only a fool pays travel insurance when he gets robbed on a trip. So these are the arguments that nothing's going on here, but when something happens, it's gonna be too late. So we, like democratic advanced countries, would also like to assign our law to ban Islamic cover-up in public, and it's all being treated so that it doesn't, of course, matter when it's a sport match, it's some kind of costume or health reasons. All of this is being treated and it is being consulted here with the Parliamentary Institute, so that it is being treated in a really perfect way in accordance with the legislation that is in Western countries. So these arguments, what about the scarf over the mouth, I think it was an argument, now I don't know who it was, I think it was someone from the pirát years ago - what happens when it gets cold and someone has a scarf over their mouth. It's the kind of talk of those who didn't even get the job to read the law. It's not long, it's the law. It's all covered, of course, these are exceptions. [[15.30 hours]] What we are definitely interested in and will want to put forward is the referendum law. It is truly trivial that the adoption of the referendum law fell out of the government's declaration. True, the last government of Andrej Babiš had it there, but then they basically bailed and threw the law overboard. It was the law of the SPD that was reinserted here. I would like to draw attention here to the would-be democratic Members who call themselves that - I mean the five-calice Members of the government, that we are - if I have the right information - the last of the two countries in Europe that do not have a referendum law. It is the Czech Republic and Cyprus. So, on the contrary, those who are defending the referendum law -- which is the whole five-calice, because you even refused to put it in your government statement -- you are anti-democracy. You are against democracy, against the introduction of democracy, in the Czech Republic, because the standard is to have a referendum law, the standard is the SPD program, the standard is what the SPD democratically enforces here. And it's really funny when I hear rumors that the SPD is undemocratic because we're pushing for a referendum law. Well, I don't believe it, lying on a lie like that, these lies. That is, as when the current Minister of Education Mr.Baxa repeatedly lied on television - until we pointed it out to him, our Member Radek Rozvoral then warned him on television - he deliberately lied and lied that the SPD was part of the government coalition during the last parliamentary term. He'll just say it straight in the media, while we've never voted for the government's trust, we've never voted for the budget. Only when we voted for something was it exactly in line with our program, where there was a program overlay. But that's what we voted for each other with the five-police. Yes, canceling the supergross wage - we had it in the program and we were happy to cancel it, so we voted for SPD votes, YES and ODS. And you can say that the ODS was part of a government coalition? That's not true. If I were a liar like Mr. Baxa, I'm gonna say that the ODS was part of a government coalition, but it's not true, as the SPD wasn't part of that government coalition. But we voted strictly according to the program where the laws had overlap, so we were in favour because we want to improve our lives for citizens of the Czech Republic. And that - as you know - the five-calice parties voted against raising pensions - against raising pensions since this year. It was voted last summer. In order to increase pensions, yes, the SPD voted as always, so thanks to the SPD members' votes, pensions have always increased here, not only because of the votes YES, which did not have a majority here. There's always been a need for SPD votes. That means we're applying to it - but we weren't in a government coalition, we want better lives for people. Yes, the parties to the government coalition voted against raising pensions, which is exactly what we all remember last summer. You didn't want to raise your pensions, but we've already figured out who you want to raise, we can see that now - you've raised yourself. You had the money for that, but you didn't have the money for the people you needed. So don't say that again. The SPD was in opposition, but we're not politicating, which is the difference that you, as a five-wheeler, voted against only because someone you don't like proposed it because you didn't think about citizens in the last parliamentary term. But we have always voted in line - we always look at our programme, we do not politicize, and we want laws and our votes that are good for citizens, no matter who proposes them. But you politicize, so you delay the Czech Republic, you delay the citizens, you delay the work of the House and that people get better, because the problem is that you say: When he proposes the laws of the SPD, you don't - but you don't design them yourself. So, of course, that's the problem, and that's the principle of this thing. So we will also want to include the referendum law and, of course, we would like to - and here I would just like to draw attention to Members who do not know: because this is a constitutional law, there are no deadlines. So no one in the government coalition has to worry that if it happened to go through the first reading, there would be some kind of pressure. There is no pressure, because there is no time to discuss the constitutional law. So it can go through the first reading, which is exactly what happened last term, and then it's parked here for three years and nothing's happened. But at least thanks to the effort and pressure of the SPD for the first time in the history of the Czech Parliament, the referendum law passed at least through the first reading and the debate began. Thanks to the pressure of the SPD, he first found himself in a government statement, even though the government didn't give up on it, but we were in opposition, we weren't part of that government. But the SPD's success in the election four years ago at least forced the last government to reflect on it by at least putting it in a government statement, but unfortunately there was nothing else to do with it. So, of course, we'll keep working. We want democracy to be here, we do not want restrictions on constitutional rights and freedoms, as the government wants to do with the pandemic law, you, government MPs. On the contrary, we want a referendum. And we also want - and I am getting to the next point - to include the law - our law - on the direct choice and appeal of politicians. Specifically, we propose, in the first stage, the direct choice and appeal of the mayors and the captains, so that Members here do not have to be afraid. We're not afraid, but you're afraid. That is why we are deliberately putting it on the floor first for the authorities and the mayors - which is already in many European countries - to increase the direct responsibility of politicians towards citizens, and also to involve citizens more in the public sector, because, of course, the more citizens feel that they can participate in governance, the more voter participation will rise, by the way. I think it would be good that it would benefit democracy in the Czech Republic. So we are also proposing this, and on purpose, in this law, we are deliberately proposing an implementing law for the direct choice and rescindability of politicians. That was the argument of the last term: where is the implementing law? Well, yeah, but we'd be done with the implementing law by now, 'cause, of course, there would probably be no consensus at first reading that it would be in the package. So all we're proposing is a constitutional change, and if this thing goes through here one day, we should work on the implementing law together to make some kind of compromise. I don't know why all politicians here, except for the SPD, are afraid to call off politicians. I even read some ridiculous argument: They would have called Okamura off first. Well, let's accept it, let's accept the law and see. That's a ridiculous argument. I mean, you're worried that the law will pass here, that there's a direct choice and a rebuttal of politicians, and you're talking nonsense. That's completely unbelievable. Let's accept it first, and then we'll see who's calling off who. Plus, the appeal is only for direct choice, so it could only be applied to the Senate and the President. Which I am in favour of the Presidential elections being anchored with appeal, but that is absolutely no matter who the president is, because with a direct democracy, there should simply be an institution of appeal. But it's basically a local referendum, when it's at senator level, I'd say, so it's not complicated, it's basically going to be consistent with some sort of signature collection and a new election, where, of course, the one against whom the petition is for appeal, because there wouldn't even be anyone else or better. But that's for the citizens to decide. So the direct choice and the appeal of politicians is fundamental to us. I, as one of the few of you, went through a direct election here because I was elected senator, I won the first and second round over the then Governor of the Zlín Region, who, until then, did not seem to have lost the election. So I've already been through the direct choice, I've won both rounds, and it doesn't bother me, I've already won the direct choice. I think it's a pleasant feeling and it's so right for citizens to decide directly who they want to represent. So I have experience with this, not that I don't, and I don't have a problem with the system, either, because I have already participated in direct elections myself, and successfully. So it's definitely the kind of talk that someone should be called off - it would be good to try out a direct choice first, and then I think that maybe the opinions could move forward. [[15.40 hours]] So here I've summed up a plus or minus - not everything, but I've summed up what the SPD would have introduced today about changing the agenda, because you're rejecting the opposition window here. And most importantly, you reject any laws here that benefit people. I say again, you yourselves haven't designed any here for a program and you reject the laws of others, the SPD, while citizens pay expensive bills and citizens really don't have time. It seems to me that you're holding up a lot of our citizens by even arguing with each other now, I'm still reading in the media that politicians always argue with your five-wheeler, so it doesn't do any good either. Now, let's go to my specific proposals, to the points of the programme that I will propose, because one I have already proposed, this has been about the current problems - or the current ones, they are long-term, but the problems in the inadaptable locations, which are not just the cities and municipalities that I have been talking about, but it is also Přerov in the Olomouc Region and so on and so on and so on. I would now move on to the second point that I would suggest, because I will leave a lot of other points to our fellow Members of our SPD. Firstly, I think that we should discuss, or secondly, that is the second point, as the second point, and then I will tell you, Madam President, what that point is going to be called, but we should discuss that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is threatening an emergency situation on behalf of your government, so I will state that point. Today, at present, everything is unwinding. Yes, that's right, that's what the SPD is calling for - let's go back to normal life, relax. But Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek of TOP 09 is still threatening emergency conditions. In addition, he announced last week that 370 000 are ordered for the first quarter and 450,000 vaccination doses of Novavax for the second quarter, with no longer an interest in vaccination for the public in the long term. Basically, vaccination stopped when, for example, only 2,744 vaccines were administered on Saturday. So the vaccination has stopped, the citizens' interest in vaccination is not. You all probably know that the SPD has always advocated and promoted voluntary covid vaccination - I am talking about covid vaccination - and while it is being administered here, the citizens have been injected with 2 744 vaccines, so Minister Válek - and he could really predict this condition, the development, it was clear to everyone, so even the excuse that when he ordered did not know, so it is already evidence of complete incompetence, Minister Válek is incompetent and, in our opinion, he should resign or be removed from office. But it is not only the responsibility of Minister Válek of the TOP 09, it is the responsibility of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, because he can make a motion for appeal, so let's not just narrow it down to the TOP 09, that is the responsibility of the ODS, of course, which has the Prime Minister. And now, basically, there's a situation that the minister - and let's talk about the whole government, because everyone there knows about it - ordered 820 000 vaccines, 820 0000 vaccines for the first half of the year, but only 2,744 people are vaccinated daily. Okay, it was Saturday, but I think it's a clear number. In addition, be advised, there are currently another 1.5 million doses of vaccines in storage, which are close to expiration and which are not suitable for new possible mutations of coronavirus. Well, according to the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek of the TOP 09, the Ministry of Health is considering giving these vaccines to someone. This is where I'd stop by for a short while. So once again - just to be clear, once again, not to repeat the same thing here just to take it apart, because it's not just that - we're talking about huge state funds here, so we all know that the interest in vaccination is falling. The Ministry, which has a thousand officials in quotation marks, should have an analysis of development, a prediction of development, which is quite clear, that should be every amateur, but we expect it from professionals, and in a situation where people are no longer inoculated, and I understand, the government has ordered three quarters of a million vaccines, and in addition, there are currently 1.5 million doses in the warehouse. Over two million vaccines! I don't think it's really for personal responsibility, that the budget doesn't have money on one side, and that the government, by the way, the health minister, can't count, can't even make a basic prediction, and throws money out the window, basically, because the minister himself says that he's considering that the vaccines are given to someone abroad - that means that, yeah, I would expect, that's what usually happens in these cases - that's basically how public funds are thrown out of the window, huge millions, just because the Ministry is running an incompetent person who doesn't know his way, he's obviously not a manager. The SPD movement, of course, considers this way of Válek to be completely illogical and uneconomical. In this way there is a waste of funds and the Ministry of Health, controlled by Vlastimil Válek z TOP 09 in this case, does not take care of the proper economic operator, as required by the law, and therefore Minister Válek should resign or be removed from office. I wouldn't be surprised if there were any criminal charges against the Minister in that sense, because someone has to be responsible for this. The SPD movement has been promoting the direct substantive responsibility of ministers all along - and in vain - because it is not possible for someone to throw public money out the window because of their incompetence and incompetence and nothing is happening, there is no responsibility for that. I mean, in a private firm, there's a danger of prison! I've basically been the manager of a multinational Japanese travel agency my whole life, and I'm gonna do this, even with a hint, with a small amount, so I'm gonna have to pay for it myself. This is the so-called obligation to manage the care of a proper economy, and a violation of this obligation is a criminal offence. That's a felony! And they're vouch for personal property. And here politicians - the SPD insists that politicians have a material responsibility, those in executives, of course, that's clear - so you're defending it, but who's going to pay for it, this is what Vlastimil Válek of the TOP 09 and Petr Fiala's government showed here? Who pays for the miscalculation, and it's not true that they couldn't know because the differences here are so huge. 2 744 vaccines will be administered in a day and 3/4 million vaccines will be ordered and a million and a half will be in stock. That's just inexcusable. Yeah, if the difference was necessary - I don't want to say it here right now, yeah, because I'm not of course right now... but I'm just gonna say it in layman terms, yeah - if there was a difference, okay, instead of five dumplings I ordered six, yeah, or instead of ten eleven, but here it's an incredible difference, that's totally in the order of the difference. And who's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay for this? Oh, yeah, it's normal for you in the government to pay for it by a citizen. Then it will not be for disabled people, for pensioners, for working families with children, for tradesmen, and so on, so that a flat-rate tax for businessmen can be extended. You're always saying there's no money, but where the money is basically to be collected on the street in a good way, that means you're not able to secure it properly with public contracts. And I think that's a real problem. [[15.50 hours]] So I really don't understand this at all, how can you continue to hold on to the position of Secretary of Válek, who, in such a flagrant way... this works for him at the Ministry. Yeah, if he said, "I inherited it from the last minister, "I'm warning you, I'm against it, I'm gonna interrupt." No, no, no, it's not like that. That means, here's a real problem. So either he's a dilettante or he's doing it on purpose, and there's some sort of deal with some pharmaceutical companies. Well, it's either way, it's just not like that, is it? Well, I don't know, it's either on purpose or he doesn't know it, or he doesn't know it, but it's wrong either way. Either way, the result should be the resignation and exchange of the minister. That's all there is to it - in a private firm, the police would be doing this kind of thing, because that would be a clear violation of the care of a proper economy, and at least they would have started investigating what was behind it. That's pretty obvious. So this really needs to be discussed here. This means - by the way, when I deliver yet, the government also promises full dislodgement from 1 March, but, on the other hand, according to government measures, mandatory respirators should remain in closed spaces, and there can continue to be only six persons at a single table in the restaurant if they are not family members. The end -- well, not even, I've just got a note here, the confusion over the confusion again. The government promised, the new one here, that there would be no confusion. And only if you remember that the end of the obligation to prove yourself in restaurants by confirming the vaccination against covid-19 or the disease was to be originally from 9 February and finally the government decided at the last minute that it would not be until 10 February. Again, it caused damage and confusion in those restaurants that were already going on. And the government just doesn't realize that maybe some restaurant already bought extra goods because she expected more people to come, and then boom. But the goods have a expiration date because they're food and nothing. All of a sudden, boom, the government is gonna change it by a day, it's gonna do damage to decent working people again. Nobody cares. And, of course, they didn't introduce compensation. It's a long-term criticism that nothing. And I think somebody else will mention it, because that's a lot to talk about, and businessmen and companies and decent working people are complaining about this, that the government doesn't do anything about it. It's the Ministry of Industry. So I would like to be the first point here, sorry, as the second point of today's meeting, to propose a point of discussion on the incompetent health minister War, which he should - this way, this is how we shorten it: discussion on the incompetent health minister War. So I'd like to put it that way, Madam Vice-President, discussing the incompetent minister of health to Válek. So that's the second point that we're proposing here. Then I would move on to the next point that I would like to propose here. And I would like to add that to the previous point, but I've already suggested here that the government's five-wheelers are threatening an emergency situation, while rejecting it herself before the election. This has to be pointed out here that the government's five-calice itself before the elections, I have it here in the notes, claimed, yes, the coalition of SPOLU, which is ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN, before the elections claimed that they no longer intend to declare an emergency in connection with covid-19 disease, they will solve everything differently and their measures will be predictable, clear and understandable. But the opposite is true. You said here before the election, you tricked the voters again, that in connection with the covid-19 disease you are not going to declare an emergency, and now the government of Petr Fiala here claims that you want to declare an emergency unless the pandemic law is passed. I don't know if you can see yourself on the tip of your nose? Maybe if you had him as long as Pinocchio, you'd see him there, maybe that would match you. But you just make promises here, and then you do the exact opposite. Minister Vlastimil Válek announced, in agreement with Prime Minister Petr Fiala, that if the pandemic law was not passed, he would require the government to declare an emergency as of 1 March. So an unnecessary pandemic law, because there's nothing to prevent you from presenting an amendment to the Public Health and Crisis Act, there's no need to translate emergency status into a normal law, so that under the cover of a new law, it's actually a renamed emergency state, to limit other rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution. That's just unacceptable, I've already talked about it here, and we're still going to talk about it when we're discussing today - or at this meeting - that backlash from the Senate. So this is completely unacceptable, too, and it's another reason that we want to place that point, to discuss the fact that Minister Vlastimil Válek is incompetent. But here, of course, it follows from the claim before the election that he's incompetent, or that he's been tricked by the whole five-calice thing, of course, so that we don't just say it again about Minister Vlastimil Válek. But of course, everyone here said so, and now you're violating your entire government five-caliber. Of course, we have problems with this incompetence, it is also about the situation of the pandemic law, because we have pointed out here that the pandemic law has been unconstitutionally pushed through in a state of legislative emergency and that, for example, you are restricting the right to business, which is in the constitution and constitution guaranteed by law. In the finals, the SPD confirmed your own senators in the Senate who rejected it for you. The incompetence is clearly confirmed here, because your Minister Vlastimil Válek of TOP 09 proposes a law that has already been rejected by the government senators themselves, who were talking about the law being illegal. Even the coalition senators talked about it, or I'm saying that the coalition senators talked about it, which is why the coalition senators didn't vote for it either. So, the fact that we're staying here in the House with the legislative scumbags that the government is presenting here at the expense of working for citizens is, of course, the full responsibility of your government that, by presenting legislative illegal scumbags, you're delaying us here in the House and delaying citizens. That's the problem. So the fact that I'm proposing here that we discuss the incompetence of Minister Vlastimil Válek - you can see that the reasons for us to put this place in order to discuss, of course, a number of them, and as I am recording the citizens' reactions, I have the impression that I would dare say that most citizens do not agree that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is in office. So now we have basically this because of this incompetence, because of this incompetence, we have a legislative asshole here that restricts the fundamental freedoms of citizens, and I think that, on the contrary, this law needs to be abolished or withdrawn. [[Minister Válek sat in a government bench.]] The Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek has just arrived here, so we would really appreciate it, Minister, if you would withdraw the pandemic law, and that would put an end to it, the whole disgraceful annabasis, when you, as a government coalition, are no longer supported by your government senators. So that would be ideal, but I have the impression that it will be exactly the opposite, because the current government of Petr Fiala still wants to tighten the screws by enforcing this law, even though the quarantine is being abolished, the numbers of the infected are falling in the long term and hospitals are not overloaded with the covido patients. [[16.00 hours]] We believe - we in the SPD - that an epidemic needs to be dealt with under the law for the protection of public health and crisis law. Of course, it is necessary to repeal the pandemic law, abolish all the measures against covid and return to normal life. I think that's enough. And once again, I am stressing to the government - we are in opposition, unfortunately, but I am stressing to the government that it should stop being intoxicated by the power and desire to control the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and that it has given up. Cancel the pandemic law, withdraw it, naturally - February 28 will end the existing one. Here we would just point out that the SPD MP was the only MP who voted against the current pandemic law here a year ago. Time has given us the truth, because on the basis of measures declared under the pandemic law, there are more than 30 judgments of the court that abolish the measures as unlawful. And again, it's okay. It's okay! This becomes a citizen, so it will be incredibly persecuted by the state, but politicians, when they break the law, nothing happens here at all. It's just a crazy state! So now I would like to move on to the next point that I would like to propose, and it's a situation around the price increase. I would propose a point called - now, Madam Vice-President, I would say that point so that you do not have to be on the alert all the time - the point I would call: the government refuses to deal with the price increases. Excuse me, I'd like to clarify: the Fialův government is refusing to deal with price increases. The Fialův Government is refusing to deal with the price increase, which will be the next point. And now I'd like to justify it. And please, now I'd like it to be one step at a time from point one, as I'm talking about it here. So, as we know, an extraordinary House meeting has been convened this week to discuss aid to people affected by rising energy prices, and support to business operators in relation to the occurrence of coronavirus. On behalf of the SPD, I must say that the SPD is demanding - we are calling for you to do this in the long term and we have four months after the elections - that the government of Petr Fiala would make electricity, energy, fuel and food less expensive for people like Poland and Hungary. We are simply asking you - we are asking the government of Petr Fiala, it is a coalition of ODS, STAN, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and TOP-09 to stop working for yourself, because you have already added money to yourselves and tradesmen - everyone knows that, here citizens, and it will still be discussed within the budget - so I want to ask you very strongly and repeatedly to start working for people, to do something for the citizens of the Czech Republic, because while the Polish Government and the Hungarian Government are taking concrete steps and working hard for their citizens, so the government of Petr Fiala, the five-wheeler, does nothing at all to help citizens solve the expensiveness, literally nothing. Nothing, because the one thing you guys did here and what the Prime Minister is parachuting on TV over and over again, that's ridiculous -- that's the housing payments. You can't be serious! But, of course, I'm gonna stop by because it's unbelievable that there's a government this weak with a prime minister this weak, who probably imagines adding housing payments to a narrow circle of people for a solution to expensiveness. But I'll get to that. So, the Fialův Government, the coalition of the SPOL, which is the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP-09, Pirates and STAN, has long-term backs-up. You have not introduced any plan of action, in words, and you have not introduced any plan of action against inflation, rising energy and food prices to the letter. Now, let's make a direct comparison to how patriotic governments advance. The SPD is also a patriotic party. Patriotic governments... [[There's someone on the right off the microphone.]] I might just ask because Mr. Michálek of the Pirates doesn't know the rules of procedure and he's yelling at me from the bench because he's nervous because their preferences are falling, they're already 5.3. I've seen him, so he's desperate. [[Noise, laughter, applause from someone in the SPD.]] I would just like to ask you, Madam Vice-President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a Member should speak to the microphone, if I am correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u29	Yes, it's true. Ambassador, please don't yell at your colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u30	Thank you, so I'm glad. I hope Mr. Michálek of the Pirates behaves himself, because I'm not some hey wait for him to yell at me here. Give yourself a shout among the Pirátam. You guys are fighting, you're blaming yourself, and you're falling apart, so that's a little different. Well, there's four of you, so maybe you'll yell at each other, that's right, you'll hear each other. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u31	Gentlemen, excuse me. Please, first of all, we address Members through the President and other colleagues, so that they do not yell at the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u32	Thank you. So let's make a direct comparison. The governments of Hungary and Poland, which are also patriotic, as the SPD is a patriotic party, were able to find effective help in time. From 1 February to 6 months, the Polish Government has introduced a zero VAT tax rate for basic foodstuffs. Moreover, the zero-tax rate is also due from February to July to artificial fertilisers, the price of which also has a direct effect on food prices. In Hungary, interest rates on mortgages have been temporarily frozen and fuel prices and prices for certain basic foods have been set. This, according to the SPD, is the way to help citizens immediately - that is the immediate aid to citizens so that they do not have to shop in Poland. And what does the government of Petr Fiala, the five-calice, do for Czech citizens about the price increase? Literally nothing, zero, zero! You're not doing anything to solve the auction, nothing. So even governments within the V4 framework of the Central European region that have a history similar to ours and a standard of living similar to that in the Czech Republic - so look at how the Hungarian and Polish governments fight for their citizens. But Petr Fiala's five-calice government doesn't do anything. Zero, nothing, nothing, nothing. It's just for demise because you're supposed to say you don't have a solution. You're harassing citizens by delaying them. People have to pay bills every month. They don't have time to wait for you to wake up. I'm gonna ask you to finally solve the auction. Today, all you're doing -- that's why I'm proposing this item on the agenda -- all you're doing is turning customs officers against citizens who went to Poland cheaply. Customs are not to blame - customs are not at all to blame because they were ordered by the Minister of Finance Stanjura, Vice-President of the ODS, who ordered your government to bully decent working Czech citizens for going to Poland cheaper to buy, because the Polish Government of Patriotic cares for Polish citizens, cheaper basic food, and even fuel is cheaper there, according to my information. [[16.10 hours]] And you, instead of the Czech government of this five-wheeled woman - people call it a blind man - so instead of working for citizens and proposing some concrete solutions, you have proposed here - that will be discussed here this week - in addition to yourself 70 million for the apparatus and service for the newly created three places of unnecessary ministers - because the ministers have not yet been needed. You created that extra because you're instead of 18. That's why you're sitting here in two rows in the House, because ministers don't fit in that one historic bench anymore. It means, it really is a big problem. So you are still punishing and bullying Czech citizens who are going to buy in Poland instead of designing solutions for yourselves and reducing basic life needs in the Czech Republic. This is unbelievable. To sum up, you are punishing Czech citizens and bullying for wanting to buy cheaply in Poland, you are not proposing an alternative, and here you are pushing the pandemic law, which you want to restrict further rights and freedoms of citizens from 1 March. Is that normal? Is this government normal? It's a completely scary government, crazy! This is totally unbelievable, this. I say again, that's on the demise of this government. You guys should just admit that you're not able to solve the auction. You should say, "Yes, we can't solve this." Admit it! And I'm calling you now because we're gonna be standing here again in a month, in two, and it's gonna be the same again because you don't want to deal with it. This is not a priority for you, to solve the price increases in the Czech Republic and to relieve Czech citizens. For you is a priority, yes, for you is the priority, as I said, to restrict constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens by the pandemic law, to make correspondence choices because you are afraid of failure in elections, your preferences are falling, so you want to change the electoral rules in the Czech Republic to allow fraud and manipulation. And then the national cock contest, I've already said it, and then the control of Czech television and Czech radio by replacing the whole council. Those are your priorities. And the exchange in the leadership of the Czech Railways, we saw that, and others. This is what you do to the fullest possible extent to ensure that various political exponents and friends of your political exponents take as much root as possible in the state administration at the lucrative newsrooms. And logically, the day has 24 hours, so you don't have time for citizens anymore logically. But again, that's a bad government in that case, that's a bad government. If it were normal, the normal government should postpone the correspondence vote or the implementation of correspondence elections, except sometimes, when you're going to solve the need for a price increase, because it's not a priority - we're going to be against it anyway, of course, because we don't support these manipulations and frauds here. You should postpone some competition, and you should throw all the government forces into solving the price increase. But you don't do it, you don't want to do it. That's the problem. In short, decent and hardworking citizens under your government, under Petr Fiala's rule, must pay more and more because of your government, but, on the other hand, unadaptable people continue to receive unaddressed social benefits for almost everything. The SPD is refusing. And as for the upheaval, Prime Minister Petr Fiala here keeps repeating what you've done for people about the upheaval. I don't know, makes citizens look stupid? I guess so. After all, all citizens see, over 90 percent of citizens see that they have not received any support from the state. I don't know what he's talking about! After all, your intention was to extend your housing supplement a little bit, that is to say about 5 percent of the households in the Czech Republic, and out of the 5 percent significant part, I suspect that even the overwhelming majority didn't ask for any support at all, because when they looked at your Internet calculator and it came out that they were supposed to get $200 or $100 or something like that, and then they found out that it was a 16-page form or something like that, of course, they resigned, because it wasn't even worth $100. That means you're normally completely wasted, this government. This means that Prime Minister Fiala says that you have done something against price increases, while this does not affect 95 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic at all, even though it makes it more expensive for everyone. He makes people look stupid, literally, while people see on their wallets and on their homes that they did not receive any support. That's what they see, every one of these households see, because it's really about the 5 percent circus. And like I said, you didn't even ask for a lot of them, because it doesn't make sense how the help is set up. But be careful, you've increased the dosage inadaptable, which is crazy. This means that your help lies - help in quotation marks - that not only does the vast majority of people get nothing, almost 100 percent, 95 percent, actually even more really, as I have explained here now, they will get nothing, but they will pay additional benefits inadjustable from their expensive bills. Well, that's a really terrible government. That's a real shock. This is unbelievable. I am mostly surprised, and I have already said it here last time, Members of the STAN movement, who are many of them mayors of small communities, that they can nod and enforce on such things at all. That's not possible. I know you guys have high salaries, so you don't care about increasing energy, but it really doesn't matter to the citizens. You guys should be here to support the inclusion of the SPD, so we can at least discuss how your constituents will know what the government is up to about the upheaval, because there's really nothing here, there's no result here, and citizens know that. So this is my next draft point. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u33	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm very sorry. Is that a point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u34	Petr Fiala's government is refusing to deal with the price increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u35	Yes, you've already suggested that. It's always the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u36	Sure. I was just rationalizing him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u37	Yes, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u38	Let's go to the next draft point that I have on the agenda for this meeting, and I would call this point the Undemocratic Practices of the Purple Government. The undemocratic practices of the Fialův Government - that is the name of the point. And now I'm going to explain everything that's going on here. I think it's really shocking that Petr Fiala's government is pushing through the manipulative correspondence vote in elections instead of promoting cheaper food, fuel and energy, as the Polish and Hungarian governments have done. I have already mentioned this issue here, but, of course, I did not mention it here simply because, of course, I mention it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that I am going to propose a point on the agenda and I am trying to justify the points. That's why everything has to do with everything. That is why I said to President Pekarová here a moment ago that she should not interrupt me in violation of the Rules of Procedure, that everything has to do with everything, that I am sticking to the Rules of Procedure, and that is what our Members will do. If she hadn't interrupted me, she would have understood that I mentioned it here in the context that I wanted to propose a point called the Undemocratic Practices of Petr Fiala's Government. [[16.20 hours]] What's going on here? The coalition of SPOLU, which is the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, repeatedly enforces the Act on the introduction of correspondence elections in the House. The government is in an incredibly hurry to do this, and you even put it as a priority in the Government's Program Statement. So, the priority is not to solve the upheaval to citizens, the priority is to make a correspondence choice so that, of course, you can influence the upcoming presidential election and then the election to the Chamber of Deputies, because you are afraid that you will have the wrong result and your candidate that he will not become president. That's why you want to help yourself, and you want to manipulate and influence that choice. That's all, that's the whole principle. That is the whole principle of why the government coalition is pushing it, even though the last presidential election was repeated in Austria because of irregularities in the correspondence election. As I was saying, they even canceled correspondence elections in France. In the United States, millions of citizens have lost confidence in democracy because of the various irregularities. Well, of course, as I have already said, the reason why the government is in such a hurry to do so and why it is pushing it so hard is, in our view, the fact that the government coalition is afraid of its bad outcome in future elections, which is why they are pushing this adjustment to the electoral system. Finally, thanks to the SPD's parliamentary club, the discussion has not yet taken place, because, as you know, we prevented this discussion 14 days ago, because we are promoting democracy and not manipulation. The correspondence choice is a major threat to democracy in the Czech Republic, as it allows fraud and manipulation. That is why you understand, Madam President, why I propose a point with the name I have mentioned. Again, I stress everything about exactly how the points are to be designed here, and of course I need to explain this in detail, because it is not just for citizens who look at the record to understand it, why and how the SPD here in a factual and constructive way proposes good points, and, on the contrary, we want to prevent bad laws and bad things that the government is promoting here. And that is the right of the opposition, that is our right. As I said before, here, the government MPs, I see it here and I hear it here, would like the SPD not to be the best place to be here, to have totalitarianism and dictatorship, so that they can just raise their hands here and there's no resistance, that would be their greatest joy. But we're not gonna make you happy, and we're gonna continue to promote our political agenda here. Recall, in connection with the correspondence elections, the last presidential election in the US or neighbouring Austria, where they even had to be annulled because of suspicion of vote manipulation. As I said before, France canceled the correspondence election for opaqueness. It is really such a spectacle that the current government coalition of Petr Fiala fakes huge in quotation marks the care of voters abroad, who can already vote at representative offices today. And we believe that elections must remain a festival of democracy. We are happy - the SPD is happy, I want to stress - that Czech citizens who are abroad can vote abroad, we are glad, it is allowed and they vote at the representative offices, but nobody wants to cancel. So I would really like to call on the members of the government coalition - because they no longer know how desperately to argue, because they are simply afraid of the election result, so they want to change the way the elections are, because they fear that they will not succeed - so that they do not say nonsense here, because the SPD supports the possibility of citizens abroad. We do not want to interrupt, we agree with that, and we think that the system is correct and good, that it is at representative offices where there is a secret choice, where it is in accordance with the Constitution, and as you know, and in the Constitution it is written that the election to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate is being held secretly, which are not correspondence elections, and that the secret choice means, among other things, that the election ticket cannot be identified with the electoral voter. It's a secret choice. This means that today it is happening - and it is a secret election in accordance with the Constitution - that citizens will show identity cards before the electoral commission, they will get ballots, they will go behind the ticket, they will choose the ballot according to their conviction, they will put it in the envelope, then they will come out from behind the ballot box and put it in the ballot box, so in that ballot box, when counting the votes, they cannot identify who, specifically, what particular citizen he voted for, because the ballots are, of course, anonymously there. It's consistent with the Constitution. And, according to the Constitution, the vote at the representative offices is also in line with the Constitution, because, of course, there is a similar situation. But it's not in accordance with the Constitution, unless someone here opens an envelope that comes by a correspondence vote through the representative office, and someone inserts the data where he has the identification of the person and his ballot at the same time. This is simply not in accordance with the Constitution, even if it is then sent in the same envelope and so on. That's our opinion, and I think it's pretty clear that it's not a secret choice. There is also a possibility of great manipulation, because when the electoral commission is behind the screen and we see that the voter is alone, it may be difficult to be manipulated by someone in that particular act. But logically, if it isn't -- and those were the problems in the United States, weren't they -- so that's your goal, of course, that's your goal. It's your goal to make chaos in the election, make chaos. You want to hack democracy, you want to jeopardize democracy in the Czech Republic, you want to jeopardize trust in democracy, because these are precisely the totalitarian manners - and we have already seen it, we have seen it also within the covid, when some people have aroused hysteria, due to fear and hysteria, instigating fear and hysteria in citizens attracted screws to restricting human rights and freedoms. This is exactly the method that dictators have done to people with totalitarian manners, that you want to cause chaos, you want to cause problems, and then it will be a reason to limit someone again to endanger democracy. And we simply do not want to admit that because we are promoting freedom and democracy and we will fight here to respect the Czech Constitution. This applies not only to the pandemic law, with which we fundamentally disagree, when you want to limit constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens incomprehensiblely from March, but also to the correspondence election, because the Constitution clearly states that elections are to be secret, both to the House and to the Senate. I don't understand what's gotten into you or what's gotten into you, that instead of expensive, you're pushing for laws that people in the Czech Republic have absolutely nothing to do with, and if anything, it's only for worse. And we are here as the opposition, and I hope - I will stress this again - that no one will interrupt us here, that legitimately in accordance with our electoral programme, in accordance with our long and public policy opinions, here we simply legitimately defend, we want to defend democratically, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, in full compliance with the law, we want, of course, to promote our programme, you are promoting your programme. And it's just kind of repressed, but you have a majority, and we know that, so in the finals, of course, here you have the opportunity to vote for everything. But we have space, and that's what the Rules of Procedure are for us to get space, and time to explain it, and thanks to that space of time, so that the public can think about it, because citizens have a lot of work, worries, so that, thanks to the time space that is here, citizens can also think about opinions for and against. [[Over]] And some of you here wanted to defend it, such democratic processes in the House, and we really don't want to allow it, and we won't allow anyone here to threaten democracy, even in the House, where we are elected citizens. So, in our opinion, the correspondence choice clearly undermines confidence in the entire electoral system. [[16.30 hours]] In the House, in our opinion, we are supposed to discuss completely different things, one that really burns citizens and that would solve the draconianly rising energy prices, food, housing, and then everything else. But that's not what Petr Fiala's ODS government is interested in. As I said before, in the surrounding states, governments are introducing so-called energy aid, for example, that Poland and Hungary have forgiven all VAT on food, fuel and energy for a transitional period. But even that's just a short-term solution to the consequences, which is why I'm moving my argument now. There is a need to address the causes that are completely flawed in energy policy and nonsense projects promoted by the European Union. This is not the way Petr Fiala's government considers and is unable to present a systemic solution to the citizens of the upheaval. So, of course, every country... like Hungary has really taken it very hard. Prime Minister Orbán - and now it doesn't matter if anyone here is pro-Russian, anti-Russian, we are not pro-Russian, we are pro-Czech - flew to Moscow to negotiate with Putin and brought five times cheaper gas. On the other hand, the President of the House Pekarová Adamová, on the same week, the week before last she also had a trip abroad, went to Brussels to meet Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, and handed her a picture of Václav Havel. So Prime Minister Orbán will bring five times cheaper gas for Hungarian citizens from abroad, and the top representative of this government will hand over a picture of Václav Havel and will bring nothing at all. For free, dear, you might want to say, because I'm sure the picture still cost something. But I'm sure the road cost something. A benefit? Nothing! Public money expensive trip, but benefit zero. Orbán will bring cheap gas for the citizens. And I think the citizens would appreciate it, because we still have Russian gas here, as we know, but it's just the price. So this isn't about us not having him here. I guess - now I don't remember the number, now I wanted to say it, I had the statistics on my desk now, what percentage is the gas we use in the Czech Republic - I suspect that the gas is 7 percent of our energy consumption, and from that, I know, I think it was 7 percent, but now it's about 90 percent Russian gas, I'm afraid I don't remember now. I was gonna say the number, but now I'm getting it - I just had the table on my desk, and now I'm missing the number, but that's not relevant right now. It's about the price right now. This is the price that, of course, I think that any citizen in the Czech Republic, except for a few activists, would welcome it if he could pay for cheaper gas on the bill. It's just that the government isn't doing anything about this again. And such meaningless screams by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lipavský, who is already quite directly damaging the economic interests of the Czech Republic when they speak - and now I don't want to misinterpret it, but it was in this sense that we didn't need Russian gas and that perhaps the compressed gas from the US would replace something or something like that here - so I can't add anything at all. All I can say is out! 'Cause this isn't normal for someone to slap one on the left like that when people pay expensive bills. It's just not normal anymore. So we should take advantage of all the possibilities, I say. Let's not be servile to anybody, let's not kiss anybody's ass, but the Němec deal with Russia, President Macron acts there, Merkelová acts there, others go there. It's not about servility, it's about our personal interests and interests on it - we should just blow up networks wherever it can be beneficial for Czech citizens. Without any servility, of course, without any servility, that's very clear. We must have a confident foreign policy and mutually balanced and mutually beneficial, not unilaterally advantageous, and certainly not to be dictated to us here, not from Brussels, Moscow, Beijing, Washington. We at the SPD don't want anyone from abroad dictating anything to us, wherever he is from. And unlike the various nonprofits that are supported by the Open Society Fund or from Norwegian funds and the like, and these nonprofits then support and cooperate here with the government's five coalition, we see it, for example, on the media law, even in the preparation of laws that you want to dominate Czech Television and Czech Radio. The SPD is not sponsored from anywhere abroad or from anywhere in Russia or America or from God knows where from, so that's why we can afford, which is why we're such a thorn in the eye of the other parties because we're completely independent. We are completely independent and we are doing a policy only for the benefit of the Czech Republic and our citizens. That's what I wanted to point out so no one here would say anything that we're rustic or some Kreml, some nonsense. I've said this before, these are desperate arguments, the SPD obviously has nothing to do with it or has nothing to do with it. We will do patriotic politics, we will do it for the Czech Republic and we will follow our own judgment. But with energy prices, I think it's pretty clear. We should do everything we can to make energy prices fall, but the government doesn't want to deal with it. Of course, the systemic solution is to withdraw from the EU's green destiny, but that would have to be the government's courage. Here I would point out once again that energy policy is still within the competence of the national states, that is, Petr Fiala's government cannot make excuses for anything. You can't make excuses for nothing because it's in the competence of national states. So if you guys want to figure this out, you're gonna figure out the auction, Prime Minister Petr Fiala will sort it out with his government, the auction. So he's not here, I have to stress it here, and I stress it regularly that there is no excuse, no excuse, not even for the European Union. It's just your government, Petr Fiala's government, has full, 100% responsibility for whether or not energy is getting more expensive here. And by making it expensive and doing nothing compared to Poland and Hungary - I think it's a really good comparison, so I repeat it repeatedly, because it's governments from our region - so if they can do it, why can't we? That is true, it is a harsh comparison with the inability of Petr Fiala's government, which is now being paid dearly by all citizens. And I don't want to pay expensive energy for you, either. You're making it more expensive for me and our constituents. Our voters are complaining about your government, they don't want it. Our voters are already calling for resignation because - and that's nothing personal - it's that their energy is getting more expensive, and you're not doing anything! And you promised. Here's the worst part about you guys promising to figure it out. I stress again, and everyone in the media has heard that Prime Minister Fiala said he was going to present a plan to resolve the price increase by the end of December, and you didn't introduce any plan. That's a fucking setup! So I want to challenge you again, which is why I'm suggesting here that you say clearly, well, you admit it: we can't solve this. And so, of course, it's for an immediate change of government. Or say you'll figure it out, and when. But it's too late because you guys aren't dealing with it anymore. You haven't done anything yet. There's gonna be an emergency meeting on Thursday, and of course I've got my performances ready, and I'm gonna focus on the energy on Thursday, and I'm gonna take it apart, of course. We're just taking it down a notch here. And you should justly admit that you don't want to solve this, the price increase, that foreign interests are more important to you, not the interests of Czech citizens. And as I was saying, the government's proposal to make use of the housing allowance was not used by the vast majority of households because of the over-complicated complexity of the forms. Moreover, this option concerns only a circus of 5 percent of households, which I have already discussed. So for 95 percent you didn't offer anything and even for the rest, because it's too complicated, it's basically nothing. And it's your fault it's complicated. It's the government's fault that it's too complicated, that it's so complicated that citizens don't even want to ask for it. This is also the full responsibility of the government, not of the citizens. Citizen works and pays taxes. They're paying you for your taxes, so let's not really blame the citizens. The fact that he's complicated and useless, your only partial design, is your fault. And we say that the Czech Republic must have its own energy policy in the interests of our citizens in order to ensure our energy security and self-sufficiency, not to receive directives from Brussels and Berlin, as you do. [[16.40 hours]] But I'm going to go back, this was a justification for a point called the Undemocratic Practices of the Government of Petr Fiala. I was talking about the correspondence elections, but why I was talking about energy right now - because I'm putting it in contrast, what you're actually dealing with, what's your priority and what's not, instead of solving really serious problems, and that's solving the expensive. Let's go to the next point I'd like to propose on this House meeting's agenda. We need to discuss this here - because you're not really talking to the opposition here - you want to roll it here - but we want to hear it to explain. Police officers, firefighters, soldiers, social services workers, non-teaching workers in education - these are different cleaners, cooks and so on, or janitors and so on - and we found out when we were looking at your budget - and this can't stand the delay, you say, budget on Fridays, before the weekend, but it really doesn't stand the delay, and I want us to discuss it a little bit more widely here - you want to save CZK 34 billion on police officers, firemen, soldiers, non-teaching workers and other necessary professions. And we want to tell you now, in advance, and we want to discuss it here, so that you stop paying inadaptable, solar barons and overpriced orders. That's our manual, SPD. But that's not what you want, because solar barons are an EU project, where you promised mountains of mines, so you have to be servile. Unadaptable as you would, they would give you the nonprofits that are sucked into the money supply! That's what we saw here, Mrs. Richterová of the Pirates, blocking the SPD's bill here in the last parliamentary term to end the abuse of ill-adaptable doses. She defended nonprofits here in a completely incredible way, but now citizens in the affected regions are paying for it, who are in a situation of inadaptable despair. But of course, the pirát don't care - we just know you. We want to discuss this here because I think we could call this point discussion over... as I would call it, I'll think about it, because the government just goes against firefighters, against soldiers, against police officers, against social services workers, just a discussion about - as I would say - the government's actions against decent people. That's what I'd say: discussing the government's actions against decent people. This is what I'm going to say: discuss the government's actions against decent people. And now I'm going to justify it. I've said it three times now, so I hope it's to be noted. I'd like to say what's going on here. You're putting on a budget here - and I'm deliberately saying this now, so it's time for you to reflect by Friday, because then again on Friday, there's no time, I already know it, this, but this is really about a lot of people and their families, and it needs to be said: of course. There's supposed to be a state budget on Friday. Because of the current government, the Czech Republic is still in the so-called budgetary commission, which means that most ministries cannot make payments for potential investments and purchases because they can only draw one twelfth of last month's budget each month. The SPD does not want our country to continue to manage its budgetary provisional, so I have already announced in advance that we have a number of serious reservations about the government's budget, and that is why we are going to make a number of amendments. We also take the view that state budgets should, where possible, be balanced or surplus. But what I don't understand, and it really needs to be said, is why the draft state budget prepared by the previous government was not discussed in the House by default at the end of last year, when the difference in expenditure compared to the previous budget is only 1.79 percent, which is CZK 34.5 billion. That's completely unbelievable. It's for a separate discussion. So you guys were just saying here that you're ready for professionally and staffly and programmed to rule, that you're prepared to restructure the state budget - but I'm gonna say that in the speech on Friday, where we're going to discuss it in more detail - so not only on Thursday, it's going to be energy, but on Friday, there's going to be a budget, so obviously I'm going to say it in more detail. These are fundamental things, as you try to really go against people, against decent people, and you can't leave that without comment. So first you say you're ready, then I'm here for the first time in my life for the time that I've been in politics - not that I've been here as long as some government MPs - have experienced that there's no next year's budget under discussion, even though I've seen it twice since the election. This is evidence of the initial absolute unpreparedness and incompetence, when you threw yourself into the budget for your own lack of preparation, your government, the Czech Republic, has put a stop to investments that are important in order to invest from the crisis, so you are still directly increasing and basically harming the Czech Republic as a whole by lying before the elections that you are ready, but you are not ready. And in the finals, if you put that budget forward, we will find that there is only 1.79 % - 34 billion difference from the last budget prepared by the Babišův government. Well, you've got to be kidding me. That's an incredible incompetence. Moreover, we reject that most of the 34 billion the government wants to save on decent people: non-teaching workers, police officers, firefighters, soldiers, and a de facto reduction in health insurance payments for state insured people, thereby reducing the availability of health care, and experts really agree. You can tell a hundred times that you don't, but that's because logically, when you basically cut down on insurance payments and everything gets cheaper in the meantime, care gets worse. And the fact that they're going to draw the reserves that they're going to run out of, so what are you going to do next year if those reserves aren't, and there's gonna be some other epidemiological situation and all that? Those are really arguments, that's probably at the level of some beginners, not people who want to rule and who want to control the Czech Republic here. It's just completely unbelievable. At the same time, of course, you reduced the fare discounts for students and seniors and cut off investments. As I have already said, the current government, Petr Fiala's government, has created three new ministerial posts and has created 74 additional jobs for them at the Office of the Government - these are the various political exponents and so on, or there will be different deserved politicians and so on, or, respectively, deserved political party members who have information. And yet, and that's the point I wanted to get to, at the same time, the Home Office will have to reschedule the purchase of new fire trucks that firefighters have been waiting for for for years. This is unbelievable! So new fire trucks for firefighters, which would actually serve the whole Czech Republic and citizens, there is no money for that. This means buying new fire trucks, for which firefighters have been waiting for years, there is no money for that, but for you to create political newsrooms for three newly created ministerial posts, and by the way, for the Pirates' representative, Mrs Richterová, to have a seat as Vice-President of the House for CZK 20 million for the election period - that's the place, the costs, that's already calculated - that's what money is for. So it's just unbelievable. That's totally unbelievable - your priorities. If we were in the government of the SPD, we'd rather buy those fire trucks for the citizens to modernize the fire equipment and support the firemen because they serve all the citizens. Not you, you'd better postpone the purchase of fire trucks and you'd better add to your own. I think it's totally awful. That's totally awful, and that's why I'm suggesting that we discuss it here, because that really doesn't seem normal to me. And I didn't want to wait for Friday anymore, because you can see that it seemed to be about the budget, but it's not exactly about the budget. It's all about the overall thinking of this government and the very strange priorities this government has. [[16.50 hours]] We in the SPD certainly do not want to take money from our decent and working citizens who come first for us, which is why I am already calling on: we will not build a state budget, there is no reason to do so, because we want a state budget to be adopted, that is understandable, but we will propose a set of amendments and we will explain it. Besides, as I was saying, we said in advance that it bothers us - as far as democratic obstruction is concerned, we never... I haven't been here since I've been in politics, but just correspondence choices and the pandemic law, because it's unconstitutional, the pandemic law... I'm saying again, don't say it went through the Constitutional Court's review! That's what the previous law went through, but not your novel. I also noticed some arguments. Somebody's kidding around here, making fools of people. Every citizen understands that the Constitutional Court is judged by the previous law, and not yours, when he is still in the House and still in the Senate and still in Parliament, so how can the Constitutional Court judge him? Really, I've even heard these arguments from government MPs on TV! Well, that's totally... That's really... I don't know, I guess it's ignorance, I'd say, it's ignorance and incompetence, because this stupid argument, I don't think anybody can have it anymore, and even say it on TV. I don't remember if it wasn't really in any debate with me. I can't believe this! The law is still here, and they say the Constitutional Court has judged it! I don't know what to say. Yes, they said so. That's what they said, that's what I was thinking about Prima. Now I don't know who was there with me, against me - if it wasn't Mr. Bartošek by accident or something like that. But now I don't know exactly. It's just unbelievable. So I'm definitely telling you here that if I talk - I'll just mention it, I'll say it, but it's up to the budget - so we're going to propose a series of transfers in the budget chapters of the state budget that would support decent citizens in this difficult time. Again, we stress that it is necessary to cut payments to unadaptable, solar barons, political nonprofits or overpriced contracts. So this, these weird priorities of yours, that's what I wanted to talk about at this point. Let's move on. Another point I would like to propose, and I would now say the title, which is quite short: discussing the situation of low-income pensioners. Discussion of the situation of low-income pensioners, because this is the situation, and I would like to point out here that the average pension in the Czech Republic is around CZK 15,000. Of course, it is logical that a large proportion of citizens are under 15 000 crowns, logically. And there are a number of citizens who have 10,000 crowns. I know we don't agree, because this new government five-calice is antisocial, and it doesn't really matter, but I just wanted to tell you that for the 10,000 you can't just live on, not even for the eleven, not even for the twelve, because at the moment that a senior partner dies, they really get into unsolvable situations. And I think we should do this here. We've been trying to deal with this in the past, in the last term, in the past, in the past, but there's no will in the House. We are here repeatedly trying to propose a minimum-dignified pension law at the limit of minimum wage or poverty, of course, in compliance with legal requirements - either years worked or disability, from that amount to merit, so that the merits remain there. That means the decent get, the inadaptable don't. That's logical, because they don't meet the legal conditions. But I just think we should talk about it here. And I know that we can hardly want this discussion on the TOP 09 or the Pirates, but I think, for example, Members who are not antisocial and have, for example, old parents, that they might realize that. And I think that we should really open this point to the situation of low-income pensioners, because I'd like to hear from the government what you're up to for them. How are you going to help them? That's the point. That's what we want to hear, because I have to say that I've been looking at a government statement, and there's nothing concrete there, and I haven't seen any concrete proposals at all. So I would really like to ask you to place this point and approve it, and let's put it as those points that I've already suggested that not only the SPD - we are of course interested in this for our constituents, because we are here for the ordinary, decent people - so I really think that even the citizens would be interested and also the media that you are planning to help citizens who have below-average pensions. By the way, this is not just about old-age pensions, which I would like to stress, because pensions are not just old-age pensions. They are widow's pensions, they are orphan's pensions, and they are disability pensions. We have here, I hope I haven't forgotten any type of retirement, but the circus four types of pensions are here. So this is all about these types of pensions, and we should think about it. Of course, we have a thoughtful proposal. I say again, here lies our proposal to enact a minimum dignity pension at the minimum wage limit, but I would like to know, because the government coalition has already refused to include this proposal on the House's agenda last time - but again we are here to see that the government coalition itself does not propose anything, no alternative, so you, on the one hand, will reject it, but you do not have a proposal. You have rejected the SPD proposal, or you refuse to include it at the House meeting, our bill to support the disabled, increase your contribution to care, but at the same time you do not submit any proposal yourself. So that's why I'm proposing this point here, because we just want to know, and I think citizens want to know how you're going to do it, what you're going to do. Well, I don't think anything, because as I know you, you're not going to have anything positive for people who have lower than average pensions, but maybe I'd like to hear it, even our voters would like to hear it - so let's face it, we're not doing anything, we don't have anything prepared, which I assume, but don't play hide-and-seek with the citizens here, that you're pretending to be a change, but we know that you're not. Yes, change yes, but I've already said that, Mr. Petr Fiala forgot to just say before the election that it's worse. So some people believed and thought that for the better, but you didn't intentionally put that there, but you need to say that here. And why am I talking about this? Because it's up to date now. Because I really had to smile a little bit, ironically, of course, I smiled - well, ironically, like the government here, not so ironically, but the government is kind of trying to adopt something or brag about other people's feathers, so it's saying how the government is trying to brag about foreign feathers, because, as we know, the average old-age pension will rise by 8.2 percent since June. The pensioners should improve by CZK 1 017 on average. And even I, who I'm quite or rather experienced in the media, got the impression from the government's performance, or from the representatives of the government coalition that they're trying to suggest that they're raising pensions. That's really another... I would like you to point out that you don't raise your pension by a dime, because it's a legal valorization based on high inflation, so even if there were Marťan or aliens in the government, the pension will just rise by 8.2 percent. So the fact that pensioners should, on average, improve by CZK 1 017 from June onwards is no credit to this government. No credit to Petr Fiala's government! None, because it's a vending machine, it's automatic valorization. So I wanted to point out that this is no credit to the government. The government has no influence on this, but even what it already has influence on, and that was rightly said by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL, that he does not expect an increase in pensions beyond legal valorisation - that is your true face! That's the face! That's right. I want to explain it here on purpose so people can hear it, because some people - because of course people have a lot of work and worries - could only hear a sentence that increases their pension, and they might mistakenly think that you're raising your pension. You don't raise him a penny! Because by a statutory automatic valuation based on inflation... On the contrary, you're not doing anything against inflation, you're making it worse, but we've already said - so it's going to increase, but where you could increase - that means, because it's about inflation, so it's going to be zero, logically, so there won't be any more left in the pocket for seniors in the finals - but where you could increase a little bit beyond the law on valorization, you clearly don't count on it, you've already made it clear. So that's right, you're against raising pensions. It's just that the law here is a vending machine, but it's not your fault at all, because it's a vending machine, it's automatic. [[17,00 hours]] So that's why I wanted to do it here -- let me just do it again -- I wanted to put a point here on the agenda for a meeting called Low Income Retirement. So that's the point, because we care about elderly people - whether they're disabled or old-age, orphans or widowers - but I know you don't want to support them. So we just want to ask, and we want to appeal to you, explain to you that we want them to support each other, instead of sending 2 billion extra dollars to the European Union. Let's go to the next point that I would like to propose here for the agenda. It's a point called, Madam Vice-President, the government's expensive people's food. So a point is called the government is increasing people's food. I would like to explain and state this point, because what happened at the Ministry of Agriculture now, it really cannot be left unnoticed and it really is not easy. Because you're really doing one thing - I don't want to say it's a mine because it's not a mine, because you're doing it on purpose - you're doing one thing at a time that really goes against decent citizens of the Czech Republic. I will explain to you immediately what happened there, because perhaps not even government MPs, I suppose they don't know. By setting subsidies in agriculture, the government is destroying the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency even more. The SPD fundamentally disagrees with the procedure of the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula of KDU-ČSL, who did not respect the factual expert comments of the agricultural chamber and the agricultural union and sent to the European Commission an inadequate proposal for a strategic plan of the common agricultural policy for the years 2023 to 2027. The proposal sets out the conditions for agricultural business in the Czech Republic by further significantly aggravating the prospects of maintaining domestic agricultural production by massive relocation of subsidies to enterprises that contribute to production to a very small extent. The reduction of subsidies for production enterprises will lead to a further reduction in production, particularly in livestock production and further reduction of food self-sufficiency and food security of the Czech Republic, in a situation where prices are determined by the trade chains and food imports are under unfair competition conditions. The SPD is refusing this procedure. So what's going on here? Indeed, Petr Fiala's government does not only deal with price increases and has completely abandoned it, unlike the Polish and Hungarian governments, to make food, fuel cheaper for people. In Hungary, they even put down mortgages so that Maďar could buy housing. You guys bailed on young people too, other people who want to get mortgage housing. You guys aren't helping people at all, so today the mortgages have gone up so that people who want to get a place are desperate. They're desperate, and you refuse to help them. Moreover, here the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula of KDU-ČSL - with the sanctification of the entire government, I suppose, clearly, as otherwise, because silence is consent, of course - so you are still the way you are now, so when I say this briefly, you are increasing food prices in the Czech Republic. Well, that's totally crazy, that's awful. I think this needs to be explained, too, because we would like to discuss your agricultural policy. Well, politics... This is simply a policy, a dictation of Brusel, with which you agree, you promised Brusel and you are totally not interested in the citizens of the Czech Republic. So you are even directly involved in increasing food prices in the Czech Republic. It's crazy really, it's totally unbelievable, it's really an incredible situation. That is why I would like - if I look here, and I have talked about it with Radim Fiala many times, with our Member, who is from Prostějov, and Radim Fiala himself remembers - I don't want to say about it when he was younger - but he remembers how there were ransacks of grain, beets of diabetes. And now, of course, on the basis of the European Union's subsidies, there are solariums, assembly facilities on fertile soil and so on. This is the result of European Union policy - the destruction of our sugar industry, rape is grown on fertile soil instead of potatoes in the Highlands. That's totally awful. And instead of working here - and the SPD is pushing it - to return to building food self-sufficiency in basic foods that can be produced in the Czech Republic, the government is still supporting our food impersonality, essentially supporting imports. Of course, it is difficult for us to influence our food policy. Remember, when it started with the covid, in the spring of two years ago, the price of basic vegetables suddenly went up because we no longer have production to ensure the Czech Republic. And because there were problems in Spain, we weren't even wondering how much the basic food should cost, which should be worth a few bucks. So this is the government's policy, and I think it's a really important topic, because agriculture in the Czech Republic - we were, if I remember correctly, still in the 1990s we were food-sustaining in many basic foods. I'm saying deliberately in the '90s, don't let anyone talk about communism again. I had nothing to do with the pre-November period, I was 17 at the time, I wasn't a StB agent, I wasn't a member of the KSČ. That means it wasn't really possible, not even any of our family. It means this nonsense that I don't know, somebody's always spreading some nonsense about someone supporting communism or something. Well, I understand that we've already said to each other here that many of the parties that are here in the government coalition, of course, even collaborated with the previous regime, we know that, but that doesn't definitely concern the SPD, it didn't exist at the time, and I was 17 at the time of the Velvet Revolution, so I really didn't. But I just ran off topic a little bit. So we would like to discuss here at this point called the Government is increasing people's food, what is the government's agricultural policy strategy, because it's not easy. We were talking about increasing energy, I have already suggested this point, but I would like to know what the government's strategy is - you're supposed to be with the government for four years, less already, if it's going to be an entire term - and I would like to know and I'm sure the citizens and our voters would also like to know what your strategy for agriculture and food in the Czech Republic is. For example, Ivan David, our MEP, said a moment ago at a press conference - Ivan David is a MEP who was a minister of health and was the director of a psychiatric hospital in Bohnice, he is a top Czech psychiatrist, but he is in the European Parliament, and because he has also long been specializing in agricultural matters, he is in the Committee on Agriculture - and he has now come up with information that the European Union has for the fourth time pushed through the European Parliament to reduce the quality of feed for animals, for pigs, and that, of course, food quality is also reduced, because there is a higher content of pesticides, similar to those compound feed and the like. This means that the European Union is basically and we, because we are no longer self-sufficient in food, and we are not self-sufficient in pork, so even over half the pork, if I remember correctly from its appearance, we are already importing, perhaps even three quarters - but now don't take me at my word, just the majority - that is, basically, the European Union is going directly against eating healthier food here, going against it, and directly threatening the health of Czech citizens with its regulations. [[17.10 hours]] Therefore, from this point of view, by the way, we say that it is good to promote and fight for the food safety and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic so that we can be self-sufficient and have Czech quality food here at affordable prices. The SPD has already advocated this in the last parliamentary term, and unfortunately, we have not found the support of the other parties in the House in the finals, because I believe that other parties have been under the great lobbying process, as well as some media, multinational hypermarkets and the like, because of course our Food Act was of course directly... basically - in principle, it would damage multinational chains, which are often of poor quality or lower quality, and they are making huge profits here. But we are concerned about the Czech Republic, so here we saw how many members succumbed to the lobby in the finals, it was frightened, and the media massage that the hypermarkets initiated, of course, and at the head of the massage was a man directly paid by multinational hypermarkets, and that is Mr Prouza from the Trade and Tourism Union, because those members are right there, the hypermarkets, the union, we all know that, yeah, it's not a secret, it's an official professional union that has the hypermarkets for members, which is why he was also cooked on TV, he criticized this building of safe Czech food self-sufficiency and went against the SPD proposal. But that is simply the time today that there are Czech citizens among us who defend the interests of foreigners and foreigners and foreign corporations, and then there are some who defend the interests of the Czech Republic. Well, we are at such a time, and I'm always so surprised how a person with Czech blood can hate the Czech Republic this much, hate our country and defend foreign interests, and unfortunately there are many such politicians in the government coalition, we just see it, and I'm shaking my head about it, because my mom, when I was a kid, sang to us "we are Valaš, one family," she was a patriot, and it's such a sad thing where many people think. I was raised in a patriotic family, in a Moravian family, where we were not ashamed of being from Moravia, from the Zlín Region. It was natural, it was nice, it had nothing to do with any over-nationalism, no way, but today who has a patriotic feeling, it is often labeled. I think it's pretty ugly, and I think it's unnecessarily weakening the Czech Republic, because healthy patriotism, I see it in Japan, makes the country stronger. Of course, it must not go beyond some of the issues that we have seen here during the Second World War, of course, we all reject that, that is clear. So that's to this point. The next point I would like to propose is that I have talked about it in part here, but that is the point that concerns Minister War, health care, but now I would like to propose a point called the Government has deceived voters. I'm gonna talk about the emergency because there's no other way to call it. I would like to discuss this point here on behalf of the SPD, a point called the Government has cheated voters, because you said before the elections - and I quote you, so there's no point in getting mad at me here and not liking me - you said before the elections, your coalition - then it wasn't government, now it's government - that no more emergency situation in connection with the covid-19 disease you're not going to declare. It's just clear here, it's written in black and white. And now you're threatening an emergency since March 1st. I think it deserves a single point, this, because it's not a thing that affects one person or a few people. If you declare an emergency, it is a general emergency for ten million citizens of the Czech Republic, for ten million citizens of the Czech Republic! And that deserves a separate point, and if you reject that point, it's again... It only proves the totalitarian undemocratic practices that this government has today, because people should really be entitled to discuss why you said before the elections that you were no longer going to declare an emergency in connection with the covid, and why you are cheating voters or cheating. That's why I called it the government cheated voters - why you cheated on them when you said otherwise before the election, and now you want to declare an emergency. It's not normal. If it wasn't an emergency, I wouldn't even suggest it here, but admit that declaring an emergency is serious. And who was here in the last parliamentary term knows how much we've all been dealing with here, that you, the MPs who are in the government today, and those who are no longer in the government today, and who are in opposition to how many days we've spent here and weeks, by prolonging the emergency situation, or by declaring it, that's right, that's the government's authority. We were discussing an extension here anyway, which was already in the House or not extending. But it's just that this isn't the only way you're gonna pleze, Mr. Health Minister Válek or Prime Minister Fiala, so I'm just gonna declare an emergency if the pandemic law doesn't pass. It's not funny, don't make fun of people. That's a very serious thing you said, Minister of Health of the Válek, and the Prime Minister here is definitely in the building, but he's not here because he doesn't want to hear it because he doesn't want to look me in the eye, we know that, but I already said that. But it's just like it's not like that. That means -- I'm saying again, we just want to propose a point. The government has cheated voters. And I wouldn't say it pejoratively here, so don't be mad at me if you didn't really promise it yourself, and now you're saying it differently, otherwise I wouldn't be using those terms at all. Yeah? Why is that? Why? It's just a political fight, and I'm here... we're not gonna bitch around here, are we, of course? There's no way we're doing that, okay? But for tough political competition, I'm sure we're used to it, I suppose, everyone here has to bite each other, and I think that's okay, but it has to be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, and, of course, democratically and fairly. That means - well, not all of you, because you unfairly pushed more than half a million SPD voters and threw our votes into the canal, which is what we saw here after the election, so we don't have adequate representation in the House's bodies. So you don't see it that way, but we're still gonna set an example, and we're gonna be here, of course, exemplary and fully consistent with democratic rules, unlike you, of course, okay? But that's your fight, and we're not gonna go down to any underhands here. So this is a point that really needs to be discussed, and I would like to say again, to remind the Constitution that, in the Constitution, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the Constitution, the right to entrepreneurship is defined, the right to education, when I say it briefly, the right to private and social life, and you can't slam it, Minister and Prime Minister: Well, I'm going to declare an emergency, and I'm going to scare the citizens, and I'm going to blackmail them, bully them. That's a terrible statement. You can't just do that. You can't just do it! It cannot be said that in a democratic society, and I want to live in a democratic state, I do not want the totalitarianism that you want to introduce here - it is not possible that the government will suddenly say in the Senate, Minister of Health Válek: If the pandemic situation does not pass, I will declare an emergency for no reason. Yeah? For no reason! There's no disaster, there's no pandemic, there's no epidemic, there's no hospital overload. And someone will normally say how dictator - yeah, totalitarianism - on behalf of your government says, "We'll be declaring a two-day emergency from March 1st." Well, it's like... and I'm surprised that many of you, as well as government MPs, want to go through this in servility. Yeah? After all, whoever has a little democratic sense of you should raise that voice and say, "Don't just say it, he should tell Minister Válek and Prime Minister. Don't scare people with emergency conditions when there are no emergency conditions. Cut the totalitarian manners, he should say. [[17.20 hours]] I mean, people can't take it, this. Citizens are the owners of this country, not the government. Again, I stress that your party to your government coalition did not vote for most citizens of the Czech Republic. A million votes lapsed, that means, yes, based on the recount, which, based on how rules work in the Czech Republic, parties did not get below 5%, and in the finals, you have a majority, yes, but you should have a little bit of that valve that just - and not exaggerate really - even though you have a majority, you shouldn't overdo the bullying and those totalitarian manners of yours. So I would really like to ask you very strongly - not only would I like to place that point, I know that you will refuse to vote against that point - but at least I would ask you to respect the words of both the Minister of Health Válek and the Prime Minister and the representatives of the government. Please take your word for it before you say you'll be threatening people with an emergency. We really don't live in totality, we don't live in dictatorship. You can't afford to just threaten things like that when there's no reason. That's like saying - yes, that's actually the same equivalent - if the pandemic law doesn't pass, we'll lock you all up. Yes, because emergency is a restriction on freedom. Then we'll lock you all up. It's terrible how far you've gone in that arrogance of power. I never came up, and I also spoke to our Member Jaroslav Bašta, who is the only signatory of Charter 77 here in the House and the only political prisoner and dissident that I did not expect to have to fight for 30 years after the Velvet Revolution here on behalf of the SPD - and it turns out that we are here alone - for freedom and democracy and for compliance with the Constitution in the Czech Republic. It's just a terrifying situation. So, let's go to the next draft point that I propose. Well, that's, uh, I mentioned it here, yeah, so I mentioned it here, so the government, the government coalition is about to take over Czech TV and Czech Radio.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u39	What's the name of that point, Mr. Chairman, to make a note of it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u40	I've got it marked here, so far with the working title Government wants to increase the licence fees of Czech Television and Czech Radio. [[Thank you.]] But-- so that's what I'm saying here, but I might be able to modify it a little bit -- but now, in order not to blame me for not suggesting a point, I'm going to name it that way, but I'm going to modify it at the same time. I've got the title marked here, but I have a feeling it might be a little different. For SPD I say that we refuse to increase licence fees for Czech Television and Czech Radio, which are promoted by the government. And that's not because we don't like Czech TV, that's not it. I like Czech TV, I have performed on many shows on Czech TV, before entering politics and in programmes that have a wider format, Day D and so on, on many entertaining shows I have performed there, on many talk shows and so on. I also like Czech Television and Czech Radio, which is not the problem, I have to say it frankly. What we have a problem with is another thing: that there are specific programmes - and I think also the ČT 24, I have to say frankly that it has improved a lot and gives us space that I think corresponds to the space that the SPD should have in relation to our electoral results compared to the other parties, so we can't, in turn, somehow... I think it has been much better with the arrival of the new Council, which has begun to ensure that it is balanced, which, by the way, is in accordance with the law, because the balance is right in the law. Of course, there are large reserves in the Czech Radio, especially Czech Radio Plus, but I don't want to talk about this until now, yeah, because this has already been discussed at the Czech Radio Council, where graphs were discussed directly, where the SPD is up to multiple times less represented than the parties that had a worse electoral outcome than us. Everything was officially discussed on the Czech Television Council, but the reflection is still not there, I must say, in a sufficient way. [[Czech Radio?]] This means that there is no balance, and that is why we do not agree with increasing licence fees - I will stop shortly at Czech Television - so in Czech Radio, because why should SPD voters pay more licence fees, more expensive when SPD voters from their licence fees are not adequately represented by SPD representatives in accordance with the law that preaches equilibrium? That's the law, it's not that the chairman of the SPD made it up. As far as Czech Television is concerned, I must say for us that the ČT 24 and the news have really started after the start of the new Council... that it has improved a lot. So we think there's an effort to follow the law in some way in the news. And again, I always liked Czech TV, but there is a problem with one particular show, for example, and these are the questions of Václav Moravka, where I haven't been invited for seven years. That means, not that I wasn't invited, that I refused. I haven't been invited to the show in seven years. And this is simply clear political manipulation and abuse of Czech TV for personal interests. So let's talk about this particular show, if I'm specific, obviously we can have reservations about something else, but I'm just gonna stay here on this show because it's just plain obvious. This is a clear violation of the Czech Television Act, which preaches balance when the most visible faces of other political parties, which is the President, are represented there, but the chairman of the SPD is not there. And I don't want to lobby here for myself, I'm familiar enough. This is about compliance, it is a proposal to increase the licence fees of Czech Television, Czech Radio. Our constituents don't like it - I represent voters here. Here it is proven manipulation, proven partying and favoring other political entities, which Václav Moravec obviously prefers more. That means it's not a balanced show. And I think this show is taking the whole Czech TV down for nothing because I know a lot of people there, I like them, I have friends there and among them from when I wasn't in politics. Editors are decent, I have to say, trying, news editors, you know them here too, they do their job, they like the job, they work with them well, there are no problems here, we also congratulate ourselves, we have no problem with this, but specifically this show, it is the main discussion programme of Czech Television, so that's what this is about. If it's anything marginal - it's the main political talk show. So just as long as these manipulations are here on the main discussion programme of Czech Television, which is Václav Moravec's questions, and these frauds, literally media frauds, we really can't support increasing the licence fees of Czech Television, because our voters just don't want it. It's very simple. I know it's good for the other political parties here when the SPD is backed up, because you, we're already discussing this, that many of you only have that democratic thinking when it comes to you personally, but otherwise it's not. But this isn't right, and now it's coming to that. So I'm saying again, I certainly don't want to put the whole Czech TV in one bag, I certainly don't, and I'm stressing that here. But there's just a show that spoils the whole thing, the balance, because it's not normal that seven years isn't invited by the chairman of the parliamentary party to the main discussion program. But that's clearly censorship, it's clearly censorship! So from this point of view, we really can't - and Czech Radio Plus, that's actually the same thing. Yeah, it's a very unbalanced station, which, by the way, was also stated at the Czech Radio Council. So, once again, Okamura isn't making it up, you have representation in the Council, or there's representation there, he doesn't have SPD representation as a party. There are councilmen who are independent, they're not political exponents, and that's where it came from... it is also the conclusion of the Czech Television Council meeting, it is the normally voted conclusion of last year. That means, you see, there hasn't been a correction. This means we have specific reasons, so Czech Radio Plus, Václav Moravec's questions, when we refuse to increase licence fees. And I'm surprised that it's worth the Czech Television's leadership that it's because of Václav Moravc, because of one person who wants revenge or doesn't like someone, so all Czech TV has to be criticized for this. I think it's a shame. But okay, it's their decision, it's the decision of the management of Czech television. And I think it's a shame, because if it were more balanced, I think even an SPD voter would be more comfortable with the way things work out there right now. [[17.30 hours]] So again, it's not that we don't like Czech Television or Czech Radio. It's not like that at all. But there are just these specific things, which are not details, even in radio it is the whole station, the second most listened - or maybe not, maybe the third, I don't know if Vltava or Czech Radio 2 will probably be more listened to than Czech Radio Plus, I don't know - but with questions from Václav Moravec it is clear, this is the main political discussion show, and we disagree, because from this point of view it simply doesn't fulfil the obligations of public media and it serves for unilateral promotion of some political parties. And here I would like to see why I am here on the subject and why I am also here to President Jakoba or Vice-President, who is now running the House - although I have a working title here, but why I might still want to adjust it is that the problem is that the government coalition, as we know, wants to call off the Czech Television Council, probably also the Czech Radio, and completely allow it only by your fellow nominees, who are politically to be in your hands, have your opinions or hold your opinion. And this is perhaps the first time since 1989 when someone wants to do such political mastery of Czech television unilaterally, such manipulation, and we must draw attention to it. A really huge theatre was shown here by government Members on the electoral committee, which has the media under its responsibility, by the House Election Committee, when last week the Election Committee recommended to the House - there is a vote - not to approve the Annual Report of the Council of Czech Television on Activities for 2020. And that's what I laughed about -- the reason it said in the report is that the SPD isn't balanced when I put it simply. So those who were silent all the time and were happy with it, so only because there are the new councillors who came there during the last parliamentary term, finally there came a new wind, finally came the councillors who, in accordance with the law, want to observe the law and balance, so actually - you invented it well marketingally, very according to, of course, so now the government coalition wants to say, "Well, you see, there is no law, so we're going to call the whole council off. This is the advice that finally moved it and pointed out that the law is not being followed there! And you've prevented this council from taking care of the law and the management, and you've been playing a comedy like this, and I'd like you to keep the SPD out of it on purpose. On this basis, you plan to withdraw the advice, by the way, the double non-approval of the report will lead to the removal of the Czech Television Council, which, on the basis of objective analyses - the new councillors who came forward - stated that the participation of the SPD in the debate news programmes was disproportionately low compared to the other parties, given the SPD representation in the Chamber of Deputies. So it's smart for Mr Jakob, who is the spokesperson from the TOP 09 of this takeover of Czech television, this fraud, political fraud. And now they're using it funny here -- of course we know why and how -- they're taking it to the mouth of the SPD. So I'd like you to keep your mouth off the SPD, because you're hurting, you're promoting completely opposite thoughts than the SPD, and we don't need, like I said before, to have a self-appointed spokesperson. We don't need any speakers to defend the SPD and speak for the SPD, certainly not from TOP 09. We don't need it. So I'd be happy not to have a comedy like this. And you've actually taken the message now, and it's always been good for you on TV that the SPD isn't there, and you've always kept quiet about it, you've never opposed it, but now you've made it up that it's the purpose -- well, it's a little bit simple, which is why the primary school kid, as you have planned, would like to call it off to the Council of Czech Television, and afford only his exponents there, based on a problem of opportunity, when you still want to say, "But there's no SPD there." It's exactly the opposite. On the contrary, there must be other councillors who, once again, would not go politically to anybody's hand, but took care of the law in a balanced manner, in accordance with the law. But really, don't put SPD in your mouth, not even as an excuse. We really don't need you to talk about us, we'll defend ourselves. But that you want to control Czech TV, to call off the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio, and put in exponents own for six years...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u41	Mr President, I am leading you to discipline to stick to the point you are lecturing, and that is an increase in licence fees, not advice. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u42	But that is in this context, because it is basically necessary to describe the background of why the government here approaches these proposals and who and how it goes hand in hand, because, of course, the increase in licence fees is not just because it fell from the sky, we know that, you know that too, Mr Vice-President. So you're warning me, but you know, you know, you're not in politics on the first day, that the conventions I'm saying are clear to you, even if you don't agree with them, but it's definitely pointless, and it's all connected to who and how goes hand in hand to please, and why is he suggesting it here, but in any case it's not good for democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u43	Mr President, since I am in charge of the meeting, I cannot discuss it with you, I am in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u44	Yeah, I know that, so I'll continue my interpretation, okay. That's right, it makes you a thorn, because you'd like to react, and it can't, I understand, I've been in a situation like this in the past. Okay, so I'm not gonna tempt you. So I just wanted to say that the fact that you're proposing an increase in licence fees in this situation - and I'm putting it into context - when the situation isn't basically in accordance with the law and it's not in an ideal state, so - I'm already putting it in context, Mr Vice-President - that's why we disagree. And again, it's nothing against Czech Television, Czech Radio. We like Czech Television and Czech Radio, there is no problem. But there are some specific things why our voter is texting us, he's got a problem with it, and of course we're here as voters. So let's leave it at that title: The government wants to increase the licence fees of Czech Television, Czech Radio. And I've already made a pretty good point here. Otherwise, we believe that public media should not be paid through licence fees, but through a separate chapter of the state budget, whose drawdown would thus be under the public control and supervision of the Supreme Audit Office. So, overall, we're proposing a slightly different model in this. We certainly don't say cancel, we say do it with another system. By the way, similar systems are in other democratic countries, it is not again that it is some SPD invention. So this. Of course, if I mention the media law you're about to mention briefly... It's about increasing the fees, it's about increasing the fees. So also that you want to give part of the authority to have part of the councilmen vote for the Senate, which I think also reduces the legitimacy of the election, because the senators vote for the people. There is such a low turnout that it is not, in fact, a strengthening of democracy and a strengthening of the legitimacy of the election, but that is a weakening of the legitimacy of the election, because, of course, where there is the highest voter turnout and where the main political struggle is taking place - we are going to discuss the budget and the budget is approved only by the House, which is essential - it is the Chamber of Deputies. So we believe that the authority to elect the councillors should remain in the Chamber of Deputies to ensure the greatest possible legitimacy of the election, which I think would also be welcome for Czech television. But here again, we see a political problem, so you can see that this is also mixed with your proposal to increase licence fees. You simply want to influence the total political Czech television by wanting to involve the Senate, which has very low legitimacy and is rather to cancel from the point of view of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u45	Mr President, I apologize for bringing you into this. If you want, suggest a new point, for example, about the new media law, and then justify it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u46	[[They both talk at the same time.]] But you can't dictate to me, I'm getting there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u47	If you want to talk about increasing licence fees, it's a question of economy, not advice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u48	I'd like to... I don't know... You guys are gonna keep talking to me, but I just can't explain it in one sentence when those points are crucial and I need to explain why I'm proposing those points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u49	Mr. Chairman, it's not my place to try to talk to you. I only lead you to discipline in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u50	Well, I think the real way to explain it is up to me, but okay. I know that now you've decided, apparently, to interrupt me here a little bit, but I have to say that all my explanation goes to explain why I'm proposing this point. At the same time, I never propose a point that is not essential. That means I'm trying to meet all the conditions here. Let's move on. The next point -- you see, I've got it marked here, and I'll show you that I've got it here -- I've got a point in the program called Silence of Political Opponents. [[He's showing the President his paper.]] So you can see that I have him here in a really rightful way. It says right here: Silence of political opponents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u51	Mr President, I see the point, I note it, and you can justify it, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u52	Okay. So I had it to the conclusion, but you see, you're the one who got me into it right now. And you see, I've got it right here. I knew it was going to be an up-to-date point. So I propose a point called Silence of Political Opponents. And that's the problem. Let me just make this clear first. The government coalition is acting... I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, but the last point, I had a different name here, I missed it. The government wants to control Czech Television and Czech Radio politically. I thought it was just a comment, so I'm sorry. Here it is: the government wants to politically dominate the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic, that will be the name of the last point. I was wondering why you were interrupting me, and it's true that I had those notes prepared, and it's true that the name of the point was different. That explains it. The government wants political control of the Czech Republic and Czech Republic - I do. Well, you see, then it would be okay. I'd just ask you to change the name of the previous point. And you're right, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u53	It's fixed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u54	You're right, then you wouldn't actually have any reason to interrupt me, even though I don't think the reason was before, because the truth is, I've got a lot going on here... I've been looking for it, wondering where my name is, and I've got it right here. So let's go back to another point called Silence of Political Opponents. That's just it. I would like to make a request here, as well as the House's leadership, why I propose it, because I would like to emphasise again here that we, as the SPD, have never pursued any law in the last parliamentary term, unlike the five-wheeler where I considered it legitimate. You didn't just run the meeting. I said that I never, when I was in charge of the House in the last parliamentary term, got anybody talking to stop him, even though many of you came to me to interrupt, I remember. And remember, I've always answered you, I'm not gonna do it, because the only place on the microphone is where there should be maximum democracy when everyone here represents people. Remember, that's how I treated it. And I'd like it to be treated like this when the roles have turned, that they can turn back again someday. That's what I wanted to tell you why I propose that we talk about this here on a microphone - briefly to make sure that the five-calice government will not interrupt opposition MPs. We have announced here, in line with the best political culture, that we have a problem with two laws that are directly contrary to what our voters want - it is a correspondence choice and a pandemic law, and I wanted to tell you, since you are here. I'm sorry to invite you directly, but through this way, when I need to address you, but I won't say anything wrong...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u55	Mr President, you are absolutely right, also address me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure through me, although I understand that this is quite complicated. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u56	That's right, that's right. I would just like to ask you, because on this point, I wanted to discuss it, because the SPD Members are coming here, I have heard that even the members of the YES, and we will propose amendments to the agenda. It may be a long time, it may be a long time, but we'll stick to the matter, because it'll also need to be explanatory reports on our proposals. But I really wanted to ask you: Just bear with it, because it's a democratic, political fight here. It's some kind of political statement because there are two things that we've already announced in advance. If you had proposed these two laws in three years' time, we are not here at all in this situation of democratic, political, opinional duel - it would have been in three years, three and a half years, but it is not our fault that you are with these laws, which you know in advance from the last term, that we have a problem with them, so that you are pushing it now as your priority. That's what I wanted to point out. Let's not have a hostile environment here. It's just politics. We've been here a long time in the last and the previous parliamentary term, often by morning, not by no means, and we've all respected that. That is why I wanted to propose this point in the sense that I wanted to make sure - but I hope that this will not be necessary - that you do not propose - and I wanted to tell you - that there is also Vice-President Kovářová - that you do not propose, for example, restrictions on speaking time when the debate on the pandemic law is opened, for example, for five minutes or twice five minutes, because our Members want to explain it. We have, in my opinion, in the MP's club, I have already said this, for example, the greatest ratio of doctors from all the MPs. Of our 20 Members, there are four doctors plus one nurse, so it's not just that we're gonna go in here and somebody's gonna talk. We have people who are really fit. We've got a neurosurgeon, a neurologist, we've got another surgeon, and other people who know their health, we've got Dr. Zlínský-ORL there, and so on, that means we've got doctors who are trained, specialized, and want to comment on it, Mrs. Maříková's a nurse. They know about it, and it's just not enough to talk about the pandemic law for five minutes. So I really wanted to ask you, because I heard - or I suspect - that you're going to put a motion for a five-minute limitation in the ranks, but that's not democratic. And I might never have done that if I were in your position. I'd be sitting there by morning. It's just democracy. And most importantly, when a party preliminaries that it has a problem with this particular proposal, we should respect it and you should endure it. And this is just politics, it's a political statement, and we all have every right. When it's over, we'll be over in some way, we'll move on. But I wanted to ask you, that's why I called it Silence of Political Opponents - but I will take advantage of the fact that I have two people here, that there are two people sitting behind me from the House's leadership - and I really wanted to ask you in this, if you'd like to give the proposal. Let's just do it. I'm sure we're going through some way because the physical possibilities are somehow given, but we just need to do this. That's actually the reason for this point. I would add - and that is to the point, but I will also add the other dimension - I would very much hate to see it, and I have already noted it, we were asked by journalists at a press conference that someone from the coalition said that we could delay the state budget negotiations because Wednesday afternoon is supposed to be a committee. I hope you'll withdraw the pandemic law by then and we won't even have to discuss it here. But most importantly, we don't have the responsibility for the government coalition, you have the majority. That means, if there was another law here on Tuesday as a priority, then the debate wouldn't have to be here at all, like our bill to help the disabled or others I've already talked about, but you've put the pandemic law here first. That is why you yourself threaten to discuss the state budget, but not the SPD. We didn't place this program here, we don't have most of it here in the House. So it's just an explanation. On the contrary, we want the budget to be discussed, we do not plan on building the budget. We said: correspondence choice, pandemic law, these are problems, I will not repeat myself. And that, of course, will be a common debate. We're gonna give a lot of changelings, we're gonna justify them, but there's gonna be a vote later. So this is the point I wanted to suggest, I'm not going to discuss it anymore, I think it's pretty clear. And rather, such an appeal to the House's five-police leadership, because remember that recently you were in opposition to everyone who is now in the government, and you were all happy when it happened somehow, as you planned, with the public, to work your own way towards your constituents. [[17.50 hours]] Let us go to the next topic, to the next point, and this is the Non-transparable funding of the STAN movement. That's the name of the point. Non-discriminatory funding of the STAN movement. And I just have to go back to that point, and I'm going back to it, and we're going back to it, because until now, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and the Chairman of the STAN movement haven't answered who the end owners of the companies that sponsored the Pirates and STAN election campaign. He just doesn't want to answer it. And I am wondering here, Mr Michálek of the pirát, why he is not publicly dredging and asking for an answer from his coalition partners from the STAN movement, who is the end-owner of companies registered in Cyprus, the names of who are all the end-owners, specifically, who, through pirát President, Mr Michálek and the STAN movement, financed your campaign? Either you know and you're hiding that Mr. Rakušan already told you, or you don't, and it's wrong anyway. So we don't know to this day, which is why I'm suggesting it here. To this day, Vít Rakušan doesn't want to say it from the STAN movement, who are the final owners of those companies that are registered in Cyprus, in the tax haven, who financed them, their campaign. He doesn't want to say it. Pirates are obsessive, so they don't even want to hear it anymore. They've already got their midges, so they don't care anymore, they're not talking about it anymore. They screamed something once, but then quiet, because of course they're afraid they'd be removed from the government. That means it needs to be clarified here, and the question is quite simple. This point may take a minute when the Minister of the Interior and the First Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan will tell them who paid their campaign because he thought - but it's kind of like for little children, or little children are fine, but it's like they're trying to make fools out of us - that when the money comes back, it's like he solved it. Well, that's not true, because the campaign went on, and even if you return the money, you're still committed because someone already paid you for the campaign. Well, that's different, but the campaign's already been paid and somebody's already in their hands. This means that we want an answer to who is the end owner of the companies that finance the STAN, and we will ask questions often, we will ask questions continuously because it is not transparent. And I even got the feeling that the Interior Minister Rakušan even started using the Ministry of the Interior for the political fight against the SPD. And that's what I'm gonna get to, that's another point, instead of clearing up his management and clearing up STAN's funding. I mean, they're still asking for clarity on the others, and now they don't want clarity on their own. That's weird, that's wrong. The point is... Non-discriminatory funding of the STAN movement from Cyprus. From Cyprus, let's just put it in, please, from Cyprus. And that's essentially the reason for this particular point. At the same time, I'd pick up the next point, and that's STAN... Vít Rakušan from STAN is taking advantage of the Ministry of the Interior. Vít Rakušan from STAN is taking advantage of the Ministry of the Interior. No, here we go. Sorry. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of STAN abuses the Ministry of the Interior. Because Vít Rakušan began to avenge us, and that was not enough to stare at what it meant. Furthermore -- the SPD on the list of disinformers of the Ministry of the Interior, because we simply do not want the Czech Republic to be involved in a war with Russia in Ukraine. We then looked at what he had in mind, and he is quoting there, there was a quote from our Member, Jiří Kobza, and our MEP, Ivan David, who set out to bring the Czech Republic to war in Ukraine against Russia. What misinformation? I don't get this. We have information here from Jaroslav Bašta, who has been the ambassador of the Czech Republic for years in Ukraine and the ambassador of the Czech Republic in Russia, perhaps the only person who was an ambassador in both countries, so he is really an expert on the word taken, indisputable, defending Czech interests, we certainly cannot defend our ambassador - I hope, no one can even think of - suspecting someone that he was pro-Russian when he was our ambassador, even in other post-Soviet countries, of course, completely nonsense, but simply that the place... that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan is starting to avenge us, the SPD, and just as Jan Hamáček did, began to abuse the Interior Minister for political struggle to manipulate public opinion and thereby weaken political competition, because the SPD has nothing to do with Russia, is not pro-Russianian, but we are a national movement and our only interest is the Czech Republic, so it really seems to me an extremely dangerous tendency. [[That's]] And I think it's... and we think it's a point that we should be discussing here. I'm saying it publicly here that any such message that goes from the Home Office is just abuse by the Ministry of the Interior by the Rakušan, because we're getting revenge for wanting to clear up the funding. It's just revenge, and it seems to me to me like the aesthebacic or the cubic manners, when someone is in some state's office and is taking advantage of it to eliminate uncomfortable opponents. [[as:]] That's awful, that's scary. Indeed, this is a completely frightening situation, and I think it is necessary to discuss this here and strongly adopt a resolution - that we have a resolution prepared here too - that The Chamber of Deputies instructs the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan not to abuse the Ministry of the Interior for political warfare. And I think that's a very crucial thing, and I'd like us to put it here, because after I've suggested that point here, I'm expecting further attacks by the Home Office on the SPD. And we're worried that the Home Secretary will now bully and try to criminalize and persect SPD and SPD policies and our representatives, and we're worried about it, because it would fit me in character with Vít Rakušan, because after he doesn't want to clear up his funding and after I met him, he's a completely self-righteous person who's just gonna take revenge, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u57	Please, Mr President, without insult to other Members, in the case of members of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u58	Well, the question is, is there an insult? I don't think it's a decent word. So I don't know what word to use, okay? I don't know if that's a foreign word? There's no swearing at all, I don't understand. And then could you tell me what alternative word I should use, Mr Vice-President, instead of the word unscrambled?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u59	The Minister of the Interior, as far as I know, is not currently in the Chamber, that is the first thing he cannot respond to. And I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u60	Sure, sure, but what alternative word should I use in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when it is a normal word that is decent? I didn't get that. Scrupulous is not an indecent word. That's not even a swear. Uninhibited, yeah, Mr. Svoboda here tells me he's uninhibited. Well, it's just, in my opinion, it's like it's more of a Czech, simpler word... [[Voices from the diaper.]] Yeah, yeah, it's not Czech, it's not foreign, but it's like... But it doesn't have anything to do with the remark that I might not be following the Rules of Procedure, so I don't know, well, it seems a normal word to me. So I just wanted to say that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan - we just have a problem with this, and I have to say, to continue to justify this point - The Ministry of Interior presented Thursday - but that was last Thursday, the one before - a fresh analysis - I don't know where it goes - disinformation and manipulative-propagandist narratives on the main Czech quasi-media websites and selected Facebook pages, yeah, and unflatteringly sounds like Russia's supporters are the politicians of the House Party of the SPD. What's he making up? Where does this guy go about it? I didn't get it at all. That means, what does that mean, what are they doing, the Vít Rakušan? I mean, this place is full of crap. That means who is not in favour of the war with Russia, who wants dialogue, so is Russia's supporter? Well, no, it's not like that at all, and I don't understand why someone's pushing us around like that. Yeah, well, we don't want war, whoever it is, we want peace in the Czech Republic. What's so wrong with that? We don't want to escalate the tension! That's perfectly all right! So I don't understand why anyone here is accusing us of this. And why is this point here... why is it doing this? That means, we basically, I want to place this point with a title, as I said, the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of STAN is using the Ministry of the Interior for political warfare. [[18.00 hours]] The next point I would like to propose concerns the pirát. And it's about... [[He turns to the seat of the President, where the President agrees with Vice-President Kovářová and Mr Benda.]] If you're discussing it, it's kind of disturbing, you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u61	I'm asking for peace! Make a motion for another point, Mr President. We are here to clarify some things in connection with the Rules of Procedure. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u62	So I would suggest another point. This concerns the cumulation of the duties of Mr Bartoš, Minister Bartoš, yes. Yeah, yeah, you just got here, okay, so cool, but that's a coincidence, that's a coincidence. Well, anyway, Minister Bartoš, it's always with you, so I guess you guys already know what point I'm gonna make here. It's a point you rejected here last time, and I was surprised because it's a point called Cumulation of the Functions of Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. And I really have to say here that I'm asking you repeatedly, Minister Bartoš, why are you breaking your code of pirates? And basically, you could say that hard-core, basically hard-core... [[Member Radim Fiala brings a file to the pitch. Reactions from the O.R.]] No, no, no, I've got enough ammo, don't worry. We're not pirát to make files on people, that's okay. So what I'm saying is, let's go to that point. I need to stick to the Rules of Procedure here. I've been sticking to the Rules of Procedure all along, and I want to propose points. So Ivan Bartoš, President of the Pirates, continues to cheat hard on voters and, contrary to the Code of Pirates, accumulates three functions at once: he is a Member, a Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister. [[Minister Bartoš: Even the party chairman. Minister Černochová: You forgot the party's chairman.]] I didn't forget anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u63	My apologies, colleagues, the point is: Cumulation of the office of President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš, and I ask you, Mr President, to justify this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u64	So he is a Member, a Minister and a Vice-President of the Government, and the point is that the pirát clearly have in their code which they have promised citizens to respect, a forbidden cumulation of office as a member of the Government and of the Member. So I don't understand what Secretary Černochová is saying to me. She probably doesn't know the pirát code, okay, but then it's good not to comment. The Chairman is not there, the Chairman of the Party. You are forbidden in your code, which you have promised to citizens, pirát, you have a forbidden accumulation of the duties of a member of the government and of a Member. So briefly, Minister Ivan Bartoš should immediately appoint a Member or a Minister and Vice-President of the Government. I'm not saying you should leave everything, but I don't want to tell you this, but I'm quoting your code here, and the point is, why are you breaking what you yourself promised to citizens? So that's what this is about. In my opinion, Ivan Bartoš should immediately lay down a parliamentary post or a government position and stop cheating on people. But Ivan Bartoš doesn't want to do that in violation of his election vows because the pirát liked the functions and the warm corsets and sucked off public money full of sips. So I think that it would really be necessary for the pirát to stand up to this, and I want to propose this point that we discuss it and give you an opportunity, of course, to explain it in some way. But it's hard to explain, isn't it, of course, this is very difficult to explain, because how do you want to explain something that you're doing contrary to your election vows? It's not normal! I would really like to ask Minister Bartoš here to vote in favour of this point so that you can vote in favour of this motion for a point in this Chamber of Deputies meeting, because I do not understand at all that you were playing for transparency, playing for you not to accumulate functions, and now that you've reached the government, you've escaped and you've accumulated. And I don't think that's right. I don't know what I'm saying, politics is fickle, maybe we won't be here any more, I really don't know, but in any case I wouldn't be in another political party at all, I don't even want to be involved in any political party, everyone has enough to worry about, I think in their own political party, which I think we have to acknowledge, and I think we're all happy to be dedicated to our parties - but if you didn't publicly promise not to accumulate here, then obviously we wouldn't even have to ask. That's pretty obvious. So this is another point called Cumulation of Ivan Bartoš's functions. Well, it's not just about your code, by the way. It's not just about your code, but it's also about the coalition agreement you promised before the electoral elections, so the point I'm suggesting here is even a little bit broader, because here it is, because when I look at the coalition agreement, your code, I see here a paragraph that "the coalition candidate is committed in the event of election" - paragraph 5.2.1, clearly - "the coalition's agenda will be promoted and the coalition's electoral program." [[18.10 hours]] Then there is paragraph 5.2.2: "He shall enter the parliamentary club of the party which nominated him and shall remain in him during the term of office, except if he is excluded from the coalition board after discussion." This may still be in order from your point of view, but of course I will get to why I propose this point, because that is exactly what I need to see, which is why we propose that, according to what you promised the voters here, you violate not only your code which you promised the citizens, the Pirates Code, but even the coalition treaty of the Pirates and STAN, which you promised the voters. You are now saying in paragraph 5.2.3 that "before submitting your proposal or voting in plenary at the House or committee, it will discuss its intentions and issues at the meeting of its club so that it is possible to organise work and voting in advance in the House" - this is where the work and voting in the House is mentioned. Now, I'm getting closer to where I'm at the moment, but in order to follow the logic of the matter, to make it understandable, I'm taking it in a sequence here, of course. Then there is paragraph 5.2.4: "He will vote in accordance with the coalition agreement concluded between the Pirates and STAN and, in the event of his participation in the government, in accordance with the post-election coalition agreement at the government level, with the exception, if any, of the issues of the so-called fundamental reservation of conscience, where MPs usually have a free vote.' And now there's exactly that point 5.2.5. It says here that "the candidate of the coalition undertakes to take a Member or a member of the government as a priority and arrange for his other activities" - in parentheses is "work in self-government, study, entrepreneurship, teaching" and so on - so that he can devote enough time to performing his duties. With the function of representatives in the village or region it is acceptable to combine with a maximum of one unreleased function. That's why I propose that point. What is it, then? On the one hand, you accumulate functions, that's what I want to ask you at that point. It's clear here that you accumulate functions contrary to your Pirate Code, that's for sure. You just liked the corset, so all of a sudden, three functions combined, the code went behind your head, and you cheated on your constituents. That is the paragraph that has been dealt with here in connection with Mr Farský, but in his case in a different context. But it says here that he will take the work of a Member or a member of the Government as a priority. You cannot take this as a priority, as I understand it, because you accumulate, so we can even see here not only that there is a forbidden cumulation, but you are also acting contrary to your second document, and it is that in the work of a Member or a Member of the Government, you cannot actually arrange other activities, because one activity is therefore a member of the Government and the other is a Member and you do not want to get rid of one or another. You want to accumulate them, you like it. So this is the question, what about when you actually have - it's even written here - an acceptable co-operation with a maximum of one unreleased function. But the MP and the minister - so these are the questions. Otherwise, 5.2.6: it is only so typical in this matter that "the candidate will not accept the benefits that the coalition board calls unethical". Your coalition council, instead of calling it unethical, that you're not following the Pirate Code and the Coalition Agreement, as we can see, we can hardly expect anything from your coalition board. We can see that clearly and frankly. 5.2.7, in addition, I do not know what to add: "He will do his utmost to avoid or treat conflicts of interest. " This whole place is falling apart, this stuff. We're not going to talk here because at the moment you accumulate functions and don't follow the previous point, it's basically losing any weight, even these other statements. So that's the point I wanted to suggest, because this needs to be clarified. And I'll be asking you this question regularly, Minister. Of course you won't answer, you'll stick your head in the sand like an ostrich, but the problem is, everyone knows that if you stick your head in the sand, you can see, so of course it doesn't make any sense. It would be good to face it. You should normally say - and therefore I would not have to suggest this point here - fairly, go on the microphone here, not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow: I just liked the functions, I made a promise before the elections, and now I like to be a Member, a Minister, a Deputy Prime Minister, and the voters would somehow take it over and somehow evaluate it. But this is that you were playing the hero before the election, and then after the election, he just didn't. It's not a man's way, it's not a man's way. I think the minister should be a guy, I don't want to say a guy with what, because Vice-President Bartošek would probably scream at me right away. So I'm going to go smoothly to the next point of the program. Mr. Vice-President, let me just make this up a little bit. I've already announced that it concerns the Turów mine, so that no one feels that I'm not proposing a point here. It will concern the Turów mine, because the government agreement, or the intergovernmental agreement, is not as advantageous as it could have been. I have also noted the reactions from our voters that your government, the government of Petr Fiala, did not negotiate this favorably for the Czech Republic. It's a pretty big topic, because we're not just talking here for those who aren't informed or who aren't quite on the subject. We're talking about EUR 45 billion, EUR 50 billion. The government's closure in a way that, in many people's opinion, could have been much more advantageous should not go beyond silence. Don't be mad at me, but this just can't pass through silence. I would just say briefly here, at this point briefly, that the original agreement, not the agreement, but the original material, which was the starting point for the negotiations, which was still prepared during the previous government, gave the Czech Republic EUR 50 billion compensation, but what the government of Petr Fiala signed in the finals, in turn, Mrs. Hubáčková from the environment, probably signed it, but in any case, let's talk about the government, so it is EUR 45 billion. That means there's been a major reduction. And it's not that five less, we're talking billions of euros, I'm stressing again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u65	I'm begging you, colleagues, don't shout at yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u66	And I must say, therefore, that this agreement seems disadvantageous to us and not only to us, but also to the experts. And instead of 12 years of judicial supervision, there's supposed to be five years of judicial supervision. So, in our opinion, the government did not act sufficiently and it is not as advantageous for the Czech Republic as it could be. Of course, it is important for us citizens to be encouraged to have the citizens involved at all, the measures at all, and the support to have the quality of life preserved. [[18.20 hours]] So this is the point that I think-- how do I put it? Let's talk about-- what would I call it? So I'm supposed to call it Turów here, but I think - let's just call it the Turów Mine Agreement, whether we don't make it difficult, the Turów Mine Agreement, and I have to say that I hope that you will support this point, because it was also a practice here, so I have to say, in the last parliamentary term, that when there was a point proposed here, even though it was proposed by the opposition, which was really across the board - or not, let's say, on the surface, but in such a fundamental and quite medialized way - it was dealt with here in the Czech Republic, it was agreed so that there could be some discussion. And I remember it was about, for example, the crash on the Bečva River. The SPD was pushing it all the time to investigate, and we pushed for it to be investigated, it was also an opposition point, and it was essentially agreed here, even a commission of inquiry was set up. But that's not what I'm talking about right now. I'm talking about it being good, and here the vote will also show how the government coalition is actually going to approach all of this, because when it was Bečva, yes, and there we pushed for an examination and punishment of the guilty, and that's clear, but it just went through here, even though we were in opposition, so I expect that if you're really democrats, just like now - and it's not from a crash, you didn't do any crash or you're not in a government where an environmental accident would have occurred right now - but the Turów mine is at least... maybe it's even higher financially, or it's higher than what we've been dealing with here in some other way. So I definitely think we should put it here. I'd like to ask you for another point. Next, I have a few specific points ready to place. Firstly, I would like to place our proposal on the agenda of the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to amend the Social Services Act, which is House Press 9, paragraph 32. Sorry, I'll have a drink. I'm sorry. This is a proposal which is essentially aimed at increasing the contribution to care for disabled people in the so-called first and second degree of dependence on so-called home care. And as I have already mentioned here, because I have already mentioned this here in other contexts, so it really is a serious subject and I think that it is necessary to assign this law because basically the contribution to care has been increased by disabled people in the first and second degree of dependence on so-called home care last six years. And I would like to stress that, because there are many people with disabilities and everything is getting more expensive, citizens are desperate, and you as a government do not propose any proposal to support disabled people, so for that reason - and clearly you are not going to do as we have watched, which is, of course, ruthless - that is why we would be happy to include this SPD law. And here I'd just like to remind you that this contribution was raised six years ago, that it was in 2016, so not 2017 or like this, it's 2016, and even then, I'd like to remind you, the care allowance was only raised by about 10 percent. So, in fact, for those disabled fellow citizens who simply need help and that care allowance, because in the meantime, of course, everything has become more expensive over the last six years, and those people just can't help themselves, that's just the problem - yes, it's also a complaint against the previous Babišův government that she didn't think about them, but now the government is new here, and I've been expecting - so we've spoken enough to the government of Andrej Babiš in the past, but now there's a new government - and I just don't see your alternative proposal here. He's not just here! There's no news of him or anybody planning it at the Ministry. So here I would like to add that while in the third and fourth stages of addiction this contribution has recently been, and it is so right, increased more often and more clearly and more prominently, it is for those disabled people in the first and second stages of addiction that they have been completely forgotten there. And just to give you a closer picture, the right to a care allowance in the first degree of addiction is, at the age of 18, those persons who, due to a long-term adverse health condition - and I now justify the point, yes, to be clear, strictly speaking to the point, just here, and I see - so the right to a care allowance in the first degree of dependence is those persons who, due to a long-term adverse health condition, are unable to cope with three basic needs of life, and are entitled to this allowance in the second degree of dependence, then persons who are unable to cope with four to five basic needs of life. At the age of 18, they are entitled to a care allowance in the first degree of dependence of persons who are unable to cope with three to four basic needs of life, and at the second stage those who cannot handle five to six basic needs of life. So here I would like to stress why we want to put this in order, because I think it is clear from my initial explanation, and of course I will continue to say that these are people with quite serious and fundamental health disabilities and life restrictions. The ability to manage ten basic needs of life is assessed for granting a care allowance. That's why I'm explaining here that this is really a problem, and we need to include this law in order to pass, which is why we're proposing a change to the program. So it's precisely graduated here. Just so you know, if I read it to you, you'll actually understand that it's not just that these people really need help. Among the ten basic needs of life, of which it is then assessed that four to five basic needs cannot be managed by these people, or three to four basic needs cannot be mastered, this is the first stage, so those needs include: 1. mobility, 2 orientation, 3rd communication, 4th eating, 5th dressing and twoing, 6th physical hygiene, 7th performance of physiological needs, 8th health care, 9th personal activity, 10th household care for persons over 18 years of age. [[18.30 hours]] So I think it's clear to the layman, too, that if you imagine that for six years there hasn't been basically an increased contribution to the care that I'm talking about - and it concerns our fellow citizens who basically can't handle the normal needs of a healthy person, and they can't handle, for example, the exercise of physiological needs or eating, or orientation, or dressing and putting on - I really think it would be good if you voted in favour of putting this point in place, because these people can't help themselves. That's the problem. For you, dear colleagues, it is normal for you to wear and dress, so you also do not need a care allowance. But here's where it needs to be. Here I would like to inform you that I have to explain why this really needs to be proposed and put forward - because the present amount of care allowance for persons - and I do not think many of you know that this is not a hit parade - the present amount of care allowance for persons under 18 years of age is CZK 3,300 for one calendar month if it is stage I. And from that you actually have to pay someone to help you, or some service, while physical hygiene, the performance of physiological needs you basically need every day - it is logical that - and more, eating, dressing, wearing. If it's stage one, it's 3,300, and 6,600 if it's stage two. The amount of care allowance for persons over 18 years of age - I was talking about the amount of allowance for persons under 18 years of age, but just so you know that you can make the right decision - so the amount of care allowance for persons over 18 years of age is currently 880 crowns in the calendar month when it comes to grade I, which is absolutely unacceptable when we realize that these are people who cannot handle up to four basic life needs. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I really wanted to ask your attention and support for our proposal to change the agenda of the meeting, because you will probably recognize that at the time when an adult over 18 receives an allowance of CZK 880, and at that first stage is unable to cope with three basic needs - again I say, these include the exercise of physiological needs, physical hygiene, eating, communication, orientation - so in CZK 880 a month, we will probably agree that this is a desperate situation for those disabled fellow citizens. This is a desperate situation. That's why I took it here. After the points I have proposed, I have given priority to this now to begin with as regards our laws, because we want to help disabled fellow citizens who cannot help themselves. Admit, dear representatives of the government coalition, dear colleagues, that at a time when you are not proposing anything yourself and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka did not submit anything to support disabled fellow citizens, so let us not let them wait another six months, year or even longer. I don't know if you're gonna suggest anything in that area because we didn't see anything. But these people can't wait. Don't keep them waiting for a month or two more months. It's an apolitical law, it's a law that's processed with experts. We've already presented it in the last parliamentary term, but it just hasn't happened. So I'm stressing again, CZK 880 a month, and you're supposed to pay someone or some kind of service to help you with basic life needs, if not that one person can't, but three. That means he can't handle it medically. I would just add that if this is stage II, the amount of the care allowance for persons over 18 is CZK 4,400 per month. So, in essence, the situation is now that the financial gap between the amount of care allowance for persons in the first and second stages of dependence on the one hand and those in the third and fourth stages of dependence on the other, while the current amount of allowance for the first group of disabled persons, that is, for persons with a light and moderate dependence, is already absolutely insufficient, especially in some of these categories. It cannot in any way ensure that persons in so-called domestic care receive adequate qualified assistance or assistance. I would really ask for the attention of the Government Member, because this point is very serious, and I would really like you to vote in favour of this, because in particular - and this is very topical - when prices and payment limits of these services are going to increase at the moment. That's what I'm talking about. They're supposed to pay for the service they need from the money. When the government in its draft budget for this year - and here I am saying again the topicality of why I propose this point - in its draft budget for this year, the government reduces the amount of funds allocated to the care allowance by almost CZK 1 billion. That is why we are now getting into this situation where you actually want to - and it follows from the budget - to reduce the contribution to care or to limit the contribution to care or the availability of a contribution to care for disabled people. But I don't know if the members of the government coalition are simply sufficiently explained what they are doing and what the state is. That's why I'm asking to be put on the agenda for the current meeting, because the disabled need the contribution so that they can live with dignity at all. As a result of the absolute inadequacy of the amount of these care allowances for persons in so-called home care, it is then - and listen to this - often also placing persons dependent on the care of others from their natural home and family environments into various establishments of social housing services, which certainly cannot be regarded as a positive trend, not only from an economic point of view, but also from the balance of public budgets. So what I'm talking about here is that essentially the disability, which would certainly often benefit mentally to be at home or to be in some circle, I would say family background, so because the contribution is inadequate - and that's why we want to put this point forward and we want it to be here - so basically the result is that they are ultimately poor people - I feel sorry for them in this situation, so we want to fix it, and that's why I'm asking you to pre-schedule that point - they're essentially being forced out of their natural domestic family environment into different facilities. There's some kind of care in these facilities, but there's basically no way to adequately secure the care at home because these people don't have the money. [[18.40 hours]] It's understandable that when someone is disabled, we can't even expect him to be often rich, right, that's logical, so the care allowance, here some antisocial thinking, that in some way no matter how much they take care of themselves, that's what I hear from top 09, I've always heard it here - who's capable, who's rich, because he's capable, and poor because he's incompetent, okay? These considerations à la this, it's a typical TOP 09, but they don't even realize that we need craftsmen, manual professions, we need cleaners here, we just need... These are all decent people who may not be rich, but they are an important part of our state and we cannot do without them. So this antisocial policy for the elite, it's a completely flawed way of thinking. Let's move on. That is why we are proposing and therefore want to place it as a point, and therefore we propose to increase the care allowance for persons under the age of 18 by 50 per cent in the first degree of dependence of CZK 3,300 per month to CZK 4, 950 per month and in the second stage of dependence from CZK 6,600 per month to CZK 9,900 per month. Furthermore, we propose to increase the care allowance for persons above the age of 18 by 200 % from the current CZK 880 to at least CZK 2 640 per month, and for persons over 18 years of age in the second degree of dependence, we propose to increase this allowance again by 50 percent from the current CZK 4,400 to CZK 6,600 per month. The budgetary effects of our proposal are at most in the order of lower units of billions of crowns per year, which is not a dizzying sum in the context of all budget expenditures. And here I would compare it with the situation that the government wants to give extra 2 billion to the European Union, and it takes out a billion for a contribution to the care of disabled people who can't help themselves. Well, that's an incredible situation. And that's why I'm suggesting that we just think about it as a government. We have the proposal ready, we think of decent people, and we want to help them. And I don't understand why you prefer to add inadaptable instead of sending extra 2 billion to the European Union and instead taking disabled people as hostages, reducing a billion, and apparently rejecting our SPD proposal to increase the care allowance for people who can't help themselves. So I would like you, fellow Members, my dear fellow Members, to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda. I have another draft point here. The next item is the inclusion of a point on benefits in material distress, or we want to end the abuse of unadaptable doses. It's item number 26, House press number 3. I'd like to ask you again to put it in order for the points I've already suggested. So the point is, it's the women's proposal, it sounds like benefits in material distress, like it's supposed to help someone here, but our proposal, the principle of our proposal, is to end the abuse of benefits by so-called inadaptables. We want to put this on the agenda of today's meeting, of course, because we think it is an extremely serious and important topic, and it is also a very topical topic. In the last parliamentary term, I would like to remind you that this proposal, this point, this press that we have proposed, has been given - and this is information especially for the new Members - although he was here for the first time and we really did a lot of work with him, he even made it to the third reading. We normally got there, fought through this proposal to end the abuse of dosages that were inadaptable until the third reading, and came just before the final vote. We were a small step away from this, a small step away from ending the abuse of doses by so-called inadaptables. And as I was saying, that's why I have to propose this place now to put it in order, because, as you know, before the end of the last parliamentary term last year, the Pirates blocked this proposal of ours. The pirates have blocked our law to end the abuse of dosage inadaptables. Yes, they were pirát. Pirates, pirát, the pirát have blocked the motion to end the abuse of doses inadaptable. They're the culprits, and they're directly responsible for the fact that they're writing to us now on the petition committee that we just received a letter yesterday, desperate citizens of Bílina in the Ústí Region. It is absolutely ridiculous that in Bílina the President of Pirates Bartoš also ran for Ustecký kraj, while he is directly stabbing a knife in the back - the citizens evaluated it too, and there are only four of them here, members of the Pirates - he stabbed the citizens in the Ústí Region, because by the way in the past we were also approached by representatives of Chomutov, Kadana, Klášterec nad Ohří and Jirkova, also Úpice in Královéhradecký kraj. Now there's a letter from Bílina yesterday, a petition from citizens, and that's just it, citizens are desperate about it - here he is right now, there's Minister Bartoš who probably doesn't know about the problem. Just here for your information, Minister, Mrs. Jiřina Malá, who organized a petition for 600 local citizens, she is a small town, so she writes: "There is a mess, people are afraid to come out of their homes during the day, we want something to change." And you don't care, you've blocked this place last summer, you've blocked it to help those citizens to be on the side of decent people. You just support the inadaptable! You're against decent people! I will remind you that she and her brother, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, have been blocking this place all the time on behalf of the pirát of the Pirates Olga Richterová, who you sent to a higher post, to the Vice-President of the House, and because of the pirát, people are now suffering in these locations, it could have been resolved. Only for the pirát! And even KDU-ČSL, a Čižinský MP blocked it too. But most of all, they were pirát. Pirates are supporting inadaptables against decent people and you are directly responsible for the fact that now desperate citizens, the current letter from Bílina, citizens are desperate, afraid to come out during the day. It's your fault, Minister Bartoš, and it's true. But you've confessed, true, I can't deny that you've openly admitted that you're supporting inadaptable. So it is true again, and the result, of course, is four Members of 22. But I guess there were more of those factors. I don't want to judge that right now. But we'll see, maybe we won't be here again. Yeah, as I'm saying, politics is one day up, one day down, so let's see how it all turns out. So I'd like to put it in place here, and I'm saying again, we've already gotten it past the third reading. It's a proposal that's most necessary. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of a government Member, who is most desperately called for by political representatives and citizens of cities and areas affected by the occurrence and spread of so-called excluded localities, where social pathological and outright criminal phenomena are generated and accumulated, which are bothering and destroying the lives of decent and working citizens. But it doesn't matter to the Pirates, it doesn't matter to the pirát, we know that, but also to the People's Party, because we remember Mr. Čižinský blocking it - he's not here anymore. [[18.50 hours]] So it is undeniable that the current legislative setting of the use of social benefits and the functioning of this system in practice allows, in many respects, the purpose of their beneficiaries and applicants for them to act, which is at the edge of the law or beyond, which is clearly beyond the edge of good morals. It leads to the fact that these benefits are often paid completely outside their legal purpose and meaning. There is agreement on this across the professional public and across the labour offices that administer these benefits, as well as across the social unions of local public authorities, with which we have consulted this proposal. This is confirmed by the results of the checks carried out by these authorities. The Labor Office stated that, following extensive control of the person in its register receiving social benefits, who claimed that they could not fulfil the jobseeker's obligations because of illness or injury, 20 percent of them violated the measures or cheated without any cover. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] These social benefits are therefore abused in many cases both as a result of the fraudulent conduct of applicants for them and also as a result of the many gaps in the laws in question governing their drawing. It is therefore necessary to make changes in these laws, in particular in the Law on Assistance in Material Need, which will terminate or minimise the practice described. Changes that would also enable employees of employment offices to check more effectively the eligibility of social benefits, changes that would at the same time lead to significant savings in public funds. I would really like the government Members to listen to me as they do, because I really want to ask you to support the SPD proposal to put it in order to change the programme. You are proposing a pandemic law, restricting citizens' rights and freedoms, but we are proposing an end to benefits that are inadaptable and aid to disabled citizens, so now it's the choice. Here, your government coalition will also show how you will vote. So once again, I say that it is equally necessary to make substantial changes to the Act on State Social Support, and in particular as regards the rules for drawing up the housing allowance. The main objectives of the proposal that we put forward to end abuse are inadequate - and before I can get to that, what the main objectives are, I just want to explain that we don't want anyone on the street. It's not true what the pirát have always said or anything like that. We want to motivate everyone, motivate the so-called inadaptable ones to adapt. There's just an old Czech saying, "No pie without work." I know the pirát have turned this place into a "no job, no pie," they want to change that in the spirit of the European Union's and Brussels's diction, but that's just not what we agree with, okay? Just "no pie without work," that's what the SPD says. Of course, if someone can't work because he's disabled or retired, then of course we'll help him, and that's okay. That's right. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] So the main objectives of our proposal are... [[He's turning to the President.]] Can I just ask for peace of mind? Because I have to raise my voice now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request the silence of the left side of the hall in particular. I will ask my colleagues to take the tablet to the foyer and deal with things so that President Okamura can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u68	Well, thank you, Mr Vice-President, but I heard it again from the right side of the hall so it wouldn't be tender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u69	Also in the right part of the hall, if colleagues who cancel, even in the center of the hall, in the entire perimeter of our meeting hall, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u70	Thank you. So, firstly, the main objectives of the proposal presented by us are to increase the address and right of payment of the relevant social benefits, secondly to minimise the amount of unduly paid social benefits, thirdly to limit the coverage of beneficiaries of these benefits only to those who are temporarily in material distress and are actively seeking to get out of this situation by their own means, or to those who objectively cannot have their own income from work, which is primarily senior citizens and disability. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Furthermore, the aim of our proposal is also to bring rules, order and justice into the system of non-insured social benefits and to limit to the very minimum the possibility of its abuse, which is, in particular, the abuse of public funds, taxpayers' money, as well as the attempt to end the immoral practice of so-called trade in poverty and the fight against the spread of existing and the emergence of new so-called excluded localities, which are a disgrace to our state and basically a disgrace to all of us who have the competence to influence the form of our social system. Last but not least, the proposal for an SPD law to end the abuse of benefits is unadaptable, as well as an effort to establish the possibility of receiving certain social benefits for families in compulsory pre-school education to give a chance to children growing up in these localities and in this environment in general at least a potential chance for education and future full-fledged life application. The proposed adjustments do not give rise to any negative impact on the state budget in terms of increasing public expenditure or reducing public revenue. On the contrary, their adoption would reduce public expenditure in the order of up to CZK 1 billion per year. The proposed changes can also be, and will be, an inevitable incentive for many people to find employment and earn their own income, in particular, by their own work, which will also lead to an increase in the state's revenue from the relevant taxes and levies. I just see that many Members have returned to the ballroom, so I would just like to point out that I am asking for the appointment of our SPD law, which is the termination of the abuse of benefits inadaptable. Another aim of our proposal and the aim of our proposal is also to not create practically lasting dependence on certain groups of citizens through the social benefits system and the loss of their working habits, which in its consequences only leads to the deepening of social exclusion of these social benefits recipients, which hinders their social reintegration. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, please think about when many people receive social benefits wrongly, we are talking about the so-called inadaptable ones, and when they are involuntaryly funded and sponsored from the money of honest-working taxpayers. That's true - I'm not surprised that citizens don't like it, and the SPD is the only party that's pushing it, and unfortunately, you're throwing a stick at us, we have a law here with 70 changes to end abuse of doses that are unadaptable. [[19.00 hours]] In short, social benefits must mainly serve as transitional financial assistance to citizens in short-term existential distress, to citizens and families with low labour incomes and to citizens who, for objective reasons, can no longer work, not as extortion for those who have spent their lives avoiding work, or as an easy and effortless source of income for so-called poverty traders or for certain non-profit organisations linked to public money pipelines in the social field. Our proposal contains more than 70 concrete measures that will clearly make the situation in the field of non-insurable social benefits clear and improved. This proposal would therefore, for the first time ever in our modern history, bring order and firm rules into the system of payment of contributions and payments for housing, because, for example, it sets and sets clear conditions defining the minimum hygiene and technical standards of real estate to which these benefits can be paid and drawn. Can I just ask, what time is the meeting day, 'cause I still have it for a long time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u71	Mr President, by 21:00 a.m., the date of the sitting is as it follows from the Rules of Procedure. In addition, we have a procedural motion for an extension of today's date. [[It's over now.]] So please continue. Or should I take that as the end of your performance?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u72	No, I asked you. You didn't have to answer me, I didn't force you to, but thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u73	I consider it polite to answer you, but it is certainly not about the conversation between me and you, but about your performance, where you explain the agenda of the meeting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u74	And this proposal would, for the first time in fact, bring order and firm rules into the system of payment of contributions and payments for housing, because, for example, it sets and sets clear conditions defining the minimum hygiene and technical standards of real estate to which these benefits can be paid and drawn. Can I ask you one more thing - if the law can be voted after 7:00 p.m.? [[Someone's answering off the microphone.]] I'm asking you to hear it on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u75	Mr. Ambassador, I don't think this is the time for us to clear the Rules of Procedure together here. Either go ahead or end your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u76	[[They're both talking at the same time.]] No, I'm the one who recorded the questions from the diaper, so I wanted it to be on the microphone in your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u77	I beg you to speak to the point, which is the draft agenda for the meeting, not the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u78	I was so interested in whether our proposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u79	But there's no room for that now. We are now under the agenda where we are discussing the agenda of the meeting, so any questions about the Rules of Procedure are outside this point and I would have to take your word for it. So please continue with the justification of the program...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u80	[[They're both talking at the same time.]] I'm glad you're helping me with obstructions, you can talk. I'm glad you're helping me with the obstructions, I needed a minute's breath, so it's okay. [[Laughs in plenary.]] So I've taken a breath, but thank you for the long answer. All the previous Czech governments have grossly neglected this despite loud proclamations, and this has also led to hundreds of millions of CZK of public money being unacceptablely paid annually to owners of various properties in a catastrophic state, which in no way can be called flats. With regard to the specific changes contained in our proposal, I will mention at random: conditional upon the payment of social benefits to preschool children's parents for the compulsory attendance of these children until the final year of kindergarten. Reduction of the minimum amount of living for households receiving social benefits in cases where one of its adult members does not have any income from work or business. The introduction of an obligation to demonstrate the inability to fulfil obligations, such as going to job interviews, participating in retraining, community service, etc. Persons in the register of the employment office due to sickness or accident, including the possibility of checks and penalties, i.e. the introduction of an equivalent of the so-called incapacity of employees. Working people - we in the SPD make it clear that working people must not be discriminated against forever. [[Noise in the hall.]] Our proposal to end the abuse of ill-adjustable benefits also gives the employment authorities the right to immediately withdraw the housing benefits for those beneficiaries who refuse to enter the apartment in order to carry out official controls, for example, in terms of how many people live in this apartment, whether the actual condition corresponds to the data of the claim and the like. The approval of the proposal would also allow a rapid extension of the period for which a social benefit can be withdrawn in cases of infringement from three to six months. That, by the way, is also one of the essential things that we have there, because of course today, when the time for which a social benefit can be taken away for those who abuse it, so when it's three months today, I know from practice - I'm also obviously interested in it in more detail - so those three months just pay off to a lot of unadaptable ones. They're gonna lose three months, and then over and over again. So, by the way, this is also important that we're extending basically the period for which you can possibly take the dose abuse from three to six months. I would like to point out here, and I would like to say again clearly and strongly that this proposal will not endanger any decent and honest person who is clearly in need of social financial assistance from the state. On the contrary, many of these people, compared to the current situation, will help either directly, for example, in the case of seniors with low pensions, who receive benefits... On the other hand, our proposal will help many needy people, such as seniors with low pensions, or working students from low-income families, who, on the other hand, want to increase social support for working students. Or indirectly, because financial assistance for groups of citizens who really need help will be left with more money, because we will take money away from fraudsters who are now taking advantage of social benefits and taking advantage of them unjustly. So I'm begging you to put this item on the agenda for the current meeting. [[Big noise in the hall.]] [[19.10 hours]] Now I'd suggest we assign another point. This is the next point of today's meeting that we propose to put forward, and it is the law of the SPD. It's point 44. I'd just like a little peace of mind, 'cause as I've been talking for a long time, I need a little...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u81	If you need a break, we'll announce it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u82	No, it's just so I don't have to scream at them so I don't have to scream. [[- Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,]] Well, if you want to put out a break about me coming back later, that wouldn't be a problem for me, but I'm sure you want to make a sneaky break. [[Laughs in the hall, applause in the left side of the hall.]] So if you call a break, Mr Vice-President, for the House Council meeting, that's okay, because I'd keep going. But that's up to you. [[Reactions in different parts of the hall. Some Members stand in noisy lanes.]] It's just that what the question of pause was supposed to be, because I can't declare it myself, it would have to be the club chairman, so that's exactly the question I'm... I just wanted to explain, if you'd like to be so merciful to me, take the lead, and maybe I'd like to go to the bathroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u83	Mr. Chairman, once again, I must direct you to either end the speech or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u84	Well, you asked me a question, so I'm answering your question because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u85	I asked if you wanted to call a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u86	And you asked me, that's why I reacted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u87	I would tell you that your chairman of the MP's club has to do it, so if you want to do it, you have to end your performance, but I have other priority rights here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u88	Yeah, yeah, I get that, but you asked me a question, I'm just answering your question. So please don't ask me a question, because then I wouldn't have to answer, that's logical, and I'd pay attention to my point. So thank you. Decency is an answer to the question, which is why I answered it, but I didn't know you wanted an answer in one word. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u89	It was unclear to me what you were suggesting at that point, whether you were still at the point of justification for the proposed or changing the program, or are actually proposing a procedural proposal. I had to make sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u90	Okay, thank you. Well, you see, and I was almost pleasantly surprised that you'd like to take a break. All right. So it's paragraph 44, House press 24. But I am talking about serious points, so I would like to seriously debate again, because we are talking about helping disabled citizens end the abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. And now I want to talk about citizens who have low pensions, so let's get back to serious debate. And I've already announced here that we want to improve the situation of low-income pensioners, because today, although the average pension in the Czech Republic is 15,000, which is certainly not for some luxury life, we all know that it is not for any luxurious life, but there are also a number of citizens, and there are quite a lot of them who have pensions below 15,000, they have pensions of 10,000, 11,000. And we have put forward a bill - the pension insurance law is called - when, of course, we want to improve the situation of low-income pensioners, low-income pension recipients, and that is why I want to explain here why I propose to include this point. [[There's a lot of noise and a lot of heat in the room.]] The basis of this proposal of the SPD is the introduction of a minimum guaranteed old-age pension for all Czech citizens who are entitled to the creation and receipt of an old-age pension, i.e. for citizens who have fulfilled the relevant legal conditions for achieving the pension age and fulfilling the necessary period of pension insurance. We propose the amount of this... I'd just like a little peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u91	Yes, I understand. I ask you, fellow Members, to keep your voice down so that the President can continue his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u92	Thank you. We propose the amount of this minimum old-age pension for starters to be set at CZK 15,200 per month, equivalent to the minimum wage at the time of the proposal. The proposed design of this minimum old-age pension fully respects all other legal conditions for granting separate old-age pensions and so-called combined pensions. The basic legislation for calculating the amount of pensions thus remains unaffected, due to the smooth and smooth administrative integration of the minimum pension institute into our pension system. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] The relatively important provision of our proposal is the fact that the granting of a minimum old-age pension will always take place on a case-by-case basis only on the basis of the assessment of the insured's application, so you do not really have to worry about how someone here said that our proposal will burden the Treasury in a large way. But again, you, on the one hand, want to increase 2 billion in the budget to the European Union, but we say, let's give the money instead to disabled people and help the needy, decent people, low-income pensioners and working families with children. Those are just the different priorities. I say that, as we propose, the granting of a minimum pension would always take place on an individual basis only on the basis of the assessment of the insured person's application, so that the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration will not be unduly overwhelmed by the obligation to recalculate thousands of individual existing pensions and their co-operation. This will always be done only at the request of a particular citizen-traveller. The fight for a significant increase in the lowest pensions from which we cannot live dignifiedly is one of the main long-term priorities of the SPD. This is a step which can no longer be put up with a long delay, and I would like to stress this, because everything is getting more expensive, the cost of living of citizens is rising, inflation is high, but the government of Petr Fiala is doing absolutely nothing to make people have more money, and nothing at all to reduce inflation, so essentially the government of Petr Fiala is putting citizens in pliers. It's the government of ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates. There are no solutions, citizens are desperate. That is why I wanted to ask you again to vote in favour of assigning our bill. From this point of view, it is clear that this is a step which can no longer be put up with a long delay, even because the situation of our low-income seniors, even with regard to the current context of enormously rising energy prices, food and other basic life needs, is absolutely unbearable. In this context, the introduction of a minimum pension is clearly a better and more systemic solution than referring to seniors by a new government to apply for a housing allowance, which is lengthy and administratively extremely demanding. [[19.20 hours]] So this government, instead of systematically supporting people with low pensions, you're going to leave seniors to apply for a housing allowance. It's undignified when these people have worked their whole lives, and because of the fact that current governments are unable to help decent people, they have to go to the office after a lifetime of work and how beggars ask for a housing allowance there instead of getting the VO that deserves it - at least a minimum dignified pension. That's a real shame, and I'm not even talking about it, and I've already mentioned here that the housing allowance, the way the government took it, is too complicated. And if you imagine a senior in need of 80, 90, how would he ask for such a contribution? So fair would be fair to decent people who have worked and deserved it, even disabled people, so that they simply should be entitled to a minimum basic pension without begging the authorities, regardless of the fact that many low-income seniors living in, for example, cooperative apartments or outside of Prague will not reach this contribution at all, or they do not know about this option at all, which according to serious studies concerns the circus of 300,000 people, especially seniors. It is totally unacceptable for us that tens of thousands of seniors, after a lifetime of hard work, are forced to live from income far below the poverty line and fall into debt traps and executions, or withdraw several times a year, debilitating and often degrading the Martyrium of applying for social benefits. Build old-age pensioners who have worked for society for several decades and who have often had broken health, into the situation of social welfare applicants, figuratively and literally in one row with those who have not worked at all, is also unethical, immoral and inhumane. And that's exactly what I'm talking about here, that basically the government is going to put both seniors and pensioners who have worked for society for many years, so they're building those so-called inadaptables who haven't actually done anything, and now they're basically putting them on the same plane at that office, which is just a shame. It's just a disgrace! That's why we say it's better for those who deserve it to get that minimum decent pension, the right to a decent life without putting them in some undignified position. Citizens who have worked honestly for our country all their lives deserve to experience dignified old age. The introduction of a minimum pension institute will also undoubtedly reduce the costs and demands of the social system itself. It is also an institute that has been a standard part of many European countries' pension systems for a long time. On the other hand, the current setting of the Czech pension system is unfair and systemically defective and does not guarantee the possibility of a dignified life of retirement age, rather the opposite. And we say for the SPD, let's change it while there's still time. So I would repeat once again, on this point, that we would like to put item 44, House Press 24, the Pension Insurance Act, as the next item in today's meeting. We got a hit, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u93	Please, just repeat the number for me. Minimal guaranteed pension, I have written as a point, but if you could repeat your number to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u94	Well, there you go. I suggest we put item 44, House press 24.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u95	44, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u96	24, that's it. Let's move on. Now, I would like to propose that we place on the agenda of the House of Deputies - and this is a fundamental proposal, that is a fundamental proposal, of course, a proposal that needs to be discussed, and it is a constitutional law on a national referendum. It's the SPD bill, and it's House press number 8. Of course, I have stressed here that this is the SPD proposal, because, as you know, a Member may also propose a proposal that is for another political party, so that there is no misunderstanding. So we're saying for us that the SPD proposal, the national referendum law, of course, has a longer annabasis here. As you know, I have already advocated the bill of referendum in Parliament, I mean the Senate, because I was also a senator, so I have been pushing it practically since 2013 and other political parties are still defending it. And I have always wondered why other political parties prevent us from introducing a referendum law in the Czech Republic, because, as I have already noted, we are basically the last of the two countries that do not have a referendum in Europe in the European Union. [[He's turning to the President.]] I just want to ask you, they're talking right here in front of me, and it's bothering me, so if they can stop talking. The audience is fine, but be quiet in that case and don't disturb me. [[Rush in the hall, MPs clapping.]] I'm used to the audience, it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u97	I will ask all Members to be quiet, especially close to the speaker's desk, and I ask the President to address his colleagues and colleagues through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u98	Well, the problem is, I don't know their name. So I wanted to, but they're coming over here on purpose, but I don't know who he is. I'd like to address them, but unfortunately, I don't know them. I'm gonna meet a lot of people who try to kick my ankles, but I don't know names, unfortunately, so I'm sorry. They stand here on purpose, of course, I don't know your names, but I'm used to these things, that's always the case. So the caravan goes on, I don't say the first part of the proverb. From this point of view, I just want to say that I don't mind the audience, I'm used to getting closer, that's okay, but they're quiet when they're being polite. So I just wanted to say that this referendum law, I've been thinking for a really long time - and now I want to justify why we want to propose it - I've been thinking about it for a long time, and the whole time, basically, when it comes to it, why are these parties here such opponents of democracy? Why are you so afraid of democracy? Why is ODS, STAN, Pirates, KDU-ČSL and who else is there? [[Fun in the hall.]] pirát, STAN, KDU-ČSL... STAN and TOP 09, why are they so afraid of democracy? Unfortunately, criticism must fall on the YES movement. [[Member Radim Fiala from the space in front of the speaker's counter: We don't have ministers here.]] The ministers aren't here, so I'd like a break when the ministers arrive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u99	The Minister of Health is in the hall, we can proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u100	Let's go. So I've been thinking about it, and here, of course, is the criticism of the YES movement, because you had it in a government statement, the government of the YES, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement, and even though there was basically a very promising constitutional majority in the last parliamentary term - I'm talking about the referendum law, I'm not talking about anything else - we basically had a constitutional majority here, and yet it didn't go to the Senate. And I really have to blame the members of the ANO movement - and the KSČM and the CSSD have no sense of blaming them because they are no longer here - so because when it comes to sending it to the Senate where it would not pass anyway, we know that because the senators are against democracy and do not want a referendum law, at least we could show that the Chamber of Deputies somehow wants to move democracy so that we can at least get to the level of ordinary European countries, because, as I said, in most European countries, the referendum law applies. Of course, we can discuss the parameters with which it applies, because, of course, it is said to be a referendum and a referendum, but basically often those parameters are such that the referendum is not really feasible, because there is too high a quorum to call for a referendum, there are too limited questions for a referendum, that is basically the possibility of attractive issues missing, so, of course, it reduces interest in the referendum, when citizens cannot actually vote on what they are really interested in. So there's more of these parameters, which, of course, even if the referendum law had passed, it doesn't, in fact, suggest it anyway, doesn't meet democratic principles. But we said here in the House during the last parliamentary term: it is important. We have already resigned - or we will not resign, but I would just like to see at least some bill of referendum that will at least open the way to democracy. Here were the proposals in the last parliamentary term, which - of course it was completely insane - were the parties that seemed to want a referendum, and then put 800,000 signatures to call for a referendum, which, of course, is absolutely against the accustomedities on which a referendum was raised. There were parties that said: The referendum did, but basically, in the law, they limited the questions that essentially combined with those 800,000 signatures... but if you can't vote on, like, EU membership or you can't vote on, like, abolishing the Senate or I don't know, I'm just trying to ask questions here that I know people are very interested in, basically, in that case, of course, there's never going to be a referendum. [[Member Bendl brings a PET bottle of water.]] I've got plenty of water here, but thank you otherwise. But I don't want much to drink, so that's fine. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] You mean insidiously, Mr Bendle, through Mr President. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I know it's not easy. You guys are already doing all the tactics here - I'm gonna talk to the point that the MP here stood in front of me on purpose, but he doesn't know I'm experienced, so I don't really mind if the whole group were standing here. It's okay, I'm used to it. Water, thank you. So I really, from this point of view, it's really remarkable, and I think we should really agree that we should do it through the first reading. It doesn't prevent anybody from getting involved in the debate together. I rather blame those parties for not wanting a referendum here. I can't see you right here, you know, all of you, so I'm gonna put it down like this. [[Mr Brázdil returns the bottle with the cup to Mr Bendl.]] Yeah, you'll get it for me, thanks. The MP here is thirsty. So I just wanted to say that it would just be ideal, but I have to at least appreciate the last constellation that was here at this point, because despite the fact that in the finals it turned out that the ANO referendum law was simply not willing to push through the House and it didn't help us, at least they had the courage to go through the first reading so that it could be discussed at all. And I think at least this shift was interesting. So I was going to ask you to release it at least until the first reading on this referendum. Again, I stress that there is no time for discussion, because there are no time limits for constitutional laws, so none of you need to be under pressure that when this is released, there is a need to discuss it. There's no need to discuss it if you don't allow it. So that's what I was gonna say. And again with the parameters. In this bill, we propose that 100,000 signatures be sufficient to call for a referendum. We propose that, in essence, citizens can call for a referendum on basically any question other than restricting the constitutional rights of citizens. We also have there so that they can't change the judicial decisions, that's too judicial, and so on, but basically anything that doesn't conflict with the Constitution or that doesn't allow the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in short, could be voted on. This means that citizens could call for a vote on the abolition of the Senate, on the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, in NATO, and we in the SPD say, "Let the people decide in a referendum." If they want to, yeah, if they don't. The will of citizens should simply be fulfilled. So this is another parameter that we have here. And another important parameter, which is in the referendum law, is the quorum of participation in the referendum. Here are always efforts, or I have seen efforts, and it is precisely that Members of those other parties who have only basically played on the idea that they might have wanted to pretend to be Democrats, essentially put in the finale such a forum of participation in a referendum - 30% of voters, 35% of voters, and so on and so forth - so that the referendum simply was not feasible in some way. I would like to remind you here that there has already been a national referendum in the Czech Republic and it has been a referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. And in this referendum on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, there was no quorum. This means that this is exactly the kind of hypocrisy that when the vote was taken in that one national referendum on Czech accession to the EU - and now I don't want to talk about the topic of referendum, I want to talk about the law, about parameters - there was no quorum. [[19.40 hours]] So we have experience, and this is a referendum with which, in essence, even the current opponents of the five-calice referendum agree and always refer to it. But they only appeal when it suits them. Again, I recall that the referendum in 2004 - I believe it was 2003, 2004 - was without a concession, that is, it was not intended at all, how many citizens must participate in the referendum in order to be valid. Or, if I say it logically, when I say it half-pathically, one citizen could have decided to join the Czech Republic in the European Union. If one single citizen comes to this referendum, he will decide on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. I consider those parameters of the referendum, which was in 2004, to be democratic from the point of view of the kvora. Now I'm talking about the kvora. And now it is strange that when we were discussing here in the last parliamentary term, and we were proposing a referendum even in the previous parliamentary term, what parameters should the referendum have, suddenly the supporters of the referendum are protesting about joining the European Union, all of a sudden they are saying how dangerous it would be if there wasn't a referendum, and suddenly they don't like it. I wanted to say in a friendly manner to the referendum bill: here I am glad that Dr. Dvořák, our Member of the neurologist, needs to be examined by a colleague from the government. [[A Member who has long stood against the speaker's desk.]] But he doesn't realize he needs to be examined, that's the problem, but not even by appointment. Too bad there's no time, 'cause I don't give a shit. You're welcome to stand here on your head. I was going to say that we want to be as helpful as possible. I'm getting more spectators. [[Other colleagues have joined the current Member.]] That's great, it's an admission fee, you see, and we'd put it in the cash register for the disabled fellow citizens you're voting against. That would look good on you, red nose, your government coalition, you're right. The important thing is that you're nobody that tall, because there's the camera, so you can do whatever you want, but that's okay. It doesn't bother me anyway, but you can see the crowds coming up. I don't want to get to the point, but this is the rarity side. I could ask our MPs to take a picture of this for me, because we're gonna put it on Facebook, what attention I have here. It'll be good to give it, because the more viewers, the better. It is obvious that nervousness is rising in the government coalition because you want to enforce a totalitarian pandemic law - we do not want to. We want to promote support for disabled and old-age pensioners - you don't want to. I designed all these points here. We want to end the abuse of dosages that are inadaptable, but you don't want it. [[Members of the government party standing outside the speaker's desk have grown again.]] And now you're getting closer to me, there's still some physical stuff missing. There's only one step to that, because your nervousness is rising. But I know your aggression, I've noticed it in the past, it's so unpleasant, but not for me. So let's go to the referendum bill. The referendum bill - let's go to him. I wanted to say for us that we are already willing to compromise. You disagree with the majority both with the referendum and, of course, you will have a problem with the fact that there is a quorum. For me, I'm saying that there were proposals here in the last parliamentary term, as I said, a deal of 35 percent, 30 percent, 25 percent, I suspect 20 percent, that we would like to at least go through some referendum law. In any case, we would like that, and I would like to ask for your support. Last but not least, the parameter that was also discussed was whether citizens would have enough information on the subject to be voted because it seemed strange to me, politicians who are against the referendum law - and, on the other hand, I think that in this regard there is an honest ODS approach, because the ODS is on the level saying that it does not agree with the referendum law, and it does not play anything, Odeeska says, completely to the point that it is against the referendum law, and they simply vote against the referendum law, so that is the kind of approach that is okay, because when you say politically that you are against the referendum law, and then you vote accordingly, we cannot say anything at all against it. We disagree with you, but at least you don't play comedy. Another question is, if there are pirát here, and the pirát promised a referendum before the elections, that is, before the last four years, four years ago, and then when it came to breaking bread here in the House, they even promised pirát, if you remember well, in the electoral program that people would also be able to vote on the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. And then, when they got to the House, they abandoned their program and suddenly agreed to the option when we discussed it here in the House, so that the possibility of voting on the membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations, or, for example, in the European Union, would be excluded. [[Now some members of the SPD have also stepped up in front of the speaker's counter. Restlessness in the room.]] Well, I think it's time for me to probably settle things so I can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may ask you to clear the room in front of the microphone so that the President may proceed. If possible, quiet down there, preferably if you take a seat in your benches. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u102	But clearly, your government MPs don't respect your call. [[In front of the speaker's desk, there was a government MP who was originally there alone.]] Now I don't know, you've asked your government MPs to take their place in their own bench, and they don't respect you, I'm just pointing it out. But I appreciate your challenge. I think we should treat each other nicely here, we shouldn't deliberately provoke ourselves here and do it on purpose, as the members of the government coalition are doing. I can take it, but if this is the political culture that the government's five-calibers are putting in place here, that's pretty nasty, I gotta say. I can handle it here, but if this is what grown-ups do, that Members here are trying to provoke and provoke each other - I don't think it's good. Again, I'm saying it's not the right approach. [[19.50 hours]] If I were in charge of the House, I would politely ask all Members of all political parties to respect the fact that we are expressing ourselves here, because there will come a time when you will want to express yourself more. The time will come, and you had that time in the last term, we were all in opposition, and no one was interfering with your comments. That means, I'm glad you responded to a certain situation, because I'd like to ask everyone again to treat each other politely, and not to provoke each other here. I think it's desperate and it's pointless. Okay, so I'm gonna move on, and thank you. So I just wanted to say about the referendum... So now I have lost some thread, so I will confess, so I would hate to repeat myself again, but basically we talked about the fact that there were members of the Pirates who promised that it would be possible, and they had it there, they had it on the Internet, they might still have it there today, but in the last parliamentary term it was there that they agreed to vote on the Czech Republic's membership of the European Union as well. And then, of course, they turned around, and on behalf of the pirát, they made some... I don't want to say a compromise, because it was a compromise between a few, a few parties. Okay, it was a compromise between someone, and they agreed to compromise between ČSSD and YES that the possibility of voting for Czech membership in the EU was excluded from this in the finals. So the pirát betrayed, betrayed their program. Yes, ČSSD and YES said they didn't want to vote on EU membership, so President Andrej Babiš said so, so they just did what they said, so it's hard to criticize because... Odéeska also says, she always said she didn't want a referendum, people always said so, so I totally get it, that's okay. But then there are parties that didn't say they were against the referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u103	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. Your chairman of your SPD MP is warning me. None of the ministers are in the Chamber of Deputies. If I'm wrong, correct me - I'm looking around. It's not like that. I'll call a ten-minute break in 20.03 hours, and then we'll meet again here. With other ministers, I believe. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] One more time: 20.03 we will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to keep your voice down, we will continue. Before I return the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to state that I have some apologies. Allow me to apologise to Mr Lubomír Metnar, on 15. 2. to 18. 2. due to illness. Mrs Černochová also apologizes from this day from 18.30 to the end of the day. [[Minister]] Between 19.35 and 19.50, Minister Schillerová apologizes. [[Member]] I would also like to say that Mr Skopeček, i.e. I, will be voting with the replacement card number 11. Madam President Schillerová is already here, so he's canceling his apology. I also note that I have a written procedural proposal signed by five presidents of the MPs. I'll take the liberty of reading it. On behalf of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies act and vote on all proposals today after 7 pm, after 21 pm and after 24 pm. It is based on § 53 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Because it's a procedural proposal, so I'm gonna have to put him to a vote immediately. [[Protests from opposition Members.]] So, is there any other procedural proposal as counterproposal? Otherwise, I'm going to have to vote on the proposal I signed here by five MPs. I say again, § 53 para. 1 last sentence. If you object to this procedure, of course you can apply it. [[Member Radim Fiala is reporting for the floor.]] Do you have a procedural counterclaim?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u105	I mean, I've been applying here the whole time. [[His mic's off.]] Why are you turning off my mic? I object.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u106	You will have an objection after a possible vote. I'm asking if anyone has an alternative amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u107	Wait, you can't interrupt me. I'm constantly talking, and you can't stop me from talking. [[He's still talking with the microphone off.]] You're the one who called the break, and I'm constantly talking. Of course I do!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u108	You may object to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u109	Stop it. There's a democracy. I can't do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u110	Is there an alternative procedural proposal? Once again, I ask you to put me to a possible vote on a procedural counter-proposal. Is there any other procedural counterproposal? It's not, so I'll put it to a vote. [[MEPs YES and SPD are banging on the bench and protesting loudly. They say this proposal is unvoting. Members of the government coalition respond with applause.]] I'm gonna ask for peace. Since the number of Members has settled, I will repeat again what we will be voting on. We will be voting on the House of Deputies to act and to vote on all proposals today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? To press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes or abstains? Voting number two, 143 Members were enrolled, 99 against 6, and 38 abstained. The motion was accepted. [[ANO and SPD members are protesting loudly again and banging into the benches.]] President - Mr President, you can now continue your speech. [[Mr Tomio Okamura objects to the President's procedure.]] Prime Minister, will you continue? We have another logged in. President Jakob has long been applying for priority rights, and then President Schillerová and Mr Michálek have signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u111	Wait, I was interrupted in my speech, and now I can't even express myself? Is that possible, this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u112	To the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u113	You interrupted me in the middle of a speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u114	Prime Minister Okamura, you have no word, don't yell at me here. If anybody checks in... [[The opponents are pounding the bench again and protesting loudly.]] If anybody's applying for a vote or... Mr President, please release the speaker's counter if you do not wish to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u115	I want to go on. Please, why did you call a break? You interrupted me of your own will. I didn't want a break, you interrupted me, and then you took my word away. Wait, you just announced a break that there are no ministers, it's your fault. So you interrupted my appearance because your ministers aren't here, contrary to the House's Rules of Procedure. So you gave room for the return of ministers, and I was supposed to continue my performance continuously. You're gonna put a vote in this... [[Members of the opposition are applauding as a sign of agreement with the speaker.]] That's the normally emerging totalitarianism and dictatorship you're showing. This is a direct threat to democracy. I have no idea how to respond to this, because you will interrupt me in violation of the Rules of Procedure! You're not supposed to interrupt me! You have nothing to interrupt me when I speak, because I haven't even spoken vulgarly, I've spoken to the point, you haven't even warned me twice. You shouldn't have interrupted me at all. You have no reason to interrupt me, you must not interrupt me at all. When we warned you that there were no ministers, the ministers were to return, and I was to continue my speech continuously. That's absolutely unbelievable what's going on here. I'm telling you, it's a normal anti-democratic coup, what's going on here. [[A round of applause for opponents.]] [[20.10 hours]] I object to the President's procedure because we, who are in opposition, have been voted by two million voters, and in this way, completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure Act, contrary to democracy, contrary to any democratic elementary culture, here you are bending the Rules of Procedure, bending democracy, bending the rights and freedoms of us, the Members who are elected here, and the citizens that we represent. This is an unprecedented attack on freedom and democracy you're demonstrating here! [[Let's hear it from the left.]] President Skopeček himself, and I would like to emphasise this to the microphone, Vice-President Skopeček himself said that the meeting day is within 21 o'clock, and he said it on the microphone, so it is in the tapestry. I wasn't supposed to be interrupted here at all, and the really grim part of it is that I spoke with Prime Minister Fiala here, and I asked him to intervene here, because that is a threat to freedom and democracy, and the Prime Minister said he didn't want to respond to it, that he didn't want to comment on it, and that I should deal with it here with the President. Prime Minister, you are not a man who has the courage to fight for freedom and democracy! [[Screams and applause from the left.]] You're a fucking pussy. I was trying to tell you here. [[Screams from the left side of the hall, pounding into the benches, the speaker can hardly be heard.]] You, Prime Minister, know very well that this is wrong. You know that very well. I sat next to you for four years - no, I can address the Prime Minister directly. [[The President reminds the speaker.]] That means you know it's wrong. I've been sitting next to you for four years, I can see that you're not comfortable, you should have gotten up and, as a man, said to continue democratically in this House. I'm really disappointed in you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u116	There has been an objection to the President's procedure. Before I vote, let me just warn you that the Minister is not in the hall, the chairman of the SPD Fiala has warned me. I had to interrupt the meeting, the House meeting at that time. On this basis, I have received a procedural proposal, which will be put to the vote immediately under the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise and screams from the left.]] That's how I interpret the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree, you can object, which you have done, and I will also put it to a vote. The vote is cast by Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u117	Mr President, colleagues, it was my first time in my career. I voted no, but I have a yes on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u118	Yes. So first, we will vote on challenging the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Yes, I've logged the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Please log in with your ID cards again. I find this vote (number 3) confusing. We will vote on Mr Králíček's objection once more. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes or abstains? Voting number four, 100 Members signed up, 97 voted in favour. Objection received. I shall re-vote on the original procedural proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 99 Members were enrolled, 98 voted in favour, one abstained. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the opposition of President Okamura against the President's procedure. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? There were 100 Members in vote number 6 and 0 against 93, 7 abstentions were voted in favour. Objection has not been accepted. Do you report, Mr. Chairman, with priority rights? [[This is President Radim Fiala.]] But we have other priority rights logged in before you do. It is President Jakob, then President Schillerová will be prepared, then President Michálek is, and then I write to President Fiala. Prime Minister Jakob with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I signed up before this meeting began. [[On the left hand side, there is such a great shout that the speaker cannot speak.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u120	I will ask the Members of Parliament to calm down so that we can continue the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u121	Thank you. I have already signed up before the beginning of the meeting on the agenda and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to make two concrete proposals, which I will very briefly justify, as is the case in the Rules of Procedure, unlike my previous speaker, who has spoken here for hours and hours. I wrote notes on his speech, but I will no longer express myself. I therefore present two proposals on the agenda, as follows. The first one... [[Members on the left side of the hall are pounding into the benches.]] I don't know why you're banging on my show...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u122	Mr. Chairman, hold on a second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u123	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u124	I will ask Mr Hrnčíř not to hit the bench and allow other Members to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u125	So I'd like to take two suggestions on the agenda. The first is for the fixed classification of the point, which is the draft law amending Act No. 94/20221 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No.2/2022 Coll., and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, House press 127/2, as the first point of this meeting. [[20.20 hours]] As a second proposal, I would like to propose that paragraph 20, which is the House press 130, which concerns electronisation, be included as the two proposals from the Gremia first, which is a request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Andrej Babiš and Bohuslav Svoboda, i.e. if my first proposal was passed, the fourth place in the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u126	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you to put this in writing, so that's clear. Anyone else on the agenda for the meeting? President Schillerová has applied with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I applied this morning, and I had a reason for which I applied, and I wanted to ask how you interpret § 99 para. 4, this means that the conditions are met for the Senate's return to be discussed today because the 10-day deadline has not expired and it has not been made clear today that there has been a debate on the state of legislative emergency. That's why I volunteered this morning. But now I see the reason completely different. Don't be mad at me, but the ANO movement is completely constructive. In relation to the pandemic law, we made it clear that a few of our experts, eight, nine, will perform again, as last time, ten tops, with factual points that we have not changed our mind, today strengthened by the Senate's opinion, where your government coalition has a majority, and we did not intend to build anything. We made it clear, we did it last time, and we would have done it now. However, I'm sorry, the Rules of Procedure have now been violated in an unprecedented manner... on two points. [[A big round of applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] You may vote on an extension under the Rules of Procedure within 19 hours. No matter what we do, we just have to honor and obey the law, no matter what happens, one day the other is in opposition. We just can't bend the law the way we need it. And second thing, there was no procedural proposal on the microphone. This means that these are two conditions where the Rules of Procedure have been infringed unprecedentedly. The YES movement refuses to do so. We simply consider the meeting day to be over at 21 o'clock, and since there has been this breach, - we would not have done so if this had not happened, but it did - so on behalf of the ANO movement, I am taking a two-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u128	Well, I have to call a two-hour break at this point. Meet me at 22 p.m. 23 minutes... when we continue. [[Dissenting reactions and screams from the left side of the Chamber.]] I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u129	Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we continue after the break. At this point, I had signed up here with the priority right of Mr Jakub Michálek and Mr Radim Fiala, with whom I agreed to waive this priority right at this time in favour of the Chairman of the ANO club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. I would ask for peace of mind in the hall and, at this point, I will request the floor of the Chair of the ANO movement, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I thank both gentlemen for kindly abandoning my preferential rights. I won't talk long. I have a simple suggestion. There's been a whole series of law violations. Already in the morning, by not complying with § 99 para. 4, where, in the course of decision-making - I quote from the official interpretation - "the agenda of the plenary session, if it is decided at the time of the President of the House of Deputies of Legislative Emergency, the House still has to decide that the state of legislative emergency is ongoing" and so on, it is § 99 para. 4. Then, in the middle of the speech, there was a speaker who didn't finish, which means she was to continue, a break was announced, and the speaker didn't get the word. No procedural proposal has been made. It was voted on a procedural proposal after 19 o'clock, and so on and so forth. I suggest we not continue with this debate right now. We all know what happened, we can't stand it. I beg you to call a grémium. Please, if I could ask the Prime Minister to attend. Of course, I know I can only make it out as a request. Let's make a deal, let's go back to the beginning. I have some suggestions, let's get together and look for an unblock here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u131	Thank you, and at this point, I would ask all the presidents of the MPs if they could come to me, so that we can agree on a further procedure together. Do you agree with that? I wanted to discuss with you if you agree to this as presidents, and I wanted to make a deal with you on time. [[Prime Minister Pekarová Adamová, reporting.]] Okay, Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies reporting. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u132	Thank you for the floor. I think it's best that I do the calling of the Gremium. I will grant this request, this request, and please all the club presidents and the entire House leadership, so that we meet for the next 20 minutes in the ordinary meeting room. The rest of you, I'm going to ask that these twenty minutes, given that I'm asking for a recess for this meeting, wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u133	Based on that, I'm declaring a break until 22.46 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u134	I will therefore extend the party chairmen to come too - the party chairmen have also been heard here, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u135	Okay, so the government of the House, the club presidents, is going to the Grémium, and the Prime Minister and Chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, have been invited. Thank you. I'll meet you here at 22.46. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u136	Dear Members, the Grémia meeting has ended, which has not reached an agreement on the solution, so we follow on, as well as the agenda and enrollment on the agenda or the discussion on the agenda are here. So I had originally signed up with Mr. Chairman Michálek's priority right, but he preferred, so I don't know if he wants to use his right now. I don't know if this application still stands? It does, so, Mr President, you have the floor with priority rights on the agenda. [[He doesn't want to get out anymore.]] No, you're not interested, okay. Similarly, the chairman of the SPD was registered with Radim Fiala's priority right. But he wants to use his word, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u137	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, we are after the meeting of the Gremia, we have not reached an agreement and, of course, the situation is difficult. Allow me to ask you for a two-hour recess for a meeting of the SPD members' club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-15-ps2021-009-01-000-000.u138	The SPD has yet to take advantage of its break during today's meeting, so I am declaring a break at the SPD meeting and the continuation of the meeting is at 1.8 hours. We should meet back here at 1.18.
