ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 287/ - second reading The proposal submitted for the appellants will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitalisation, Minister for Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. I ask you, Minister, to take the floor, and I will ask everyone to keep their voice down, or to negotiate things in front of the main O.R. I'm asking everyone to calm down one more time, thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, we have here a bill that brings about a long-needed change that will help us better coordinate and manage digitalisation in the Czech Republic. On purpose, I say: it will help coordinate and manage, because our goal is not to lag behind in the digitalisation and provision of services to our citizens. And if you look at the results of the Czech Republic in international comparison in the DESI index, the Czech Republic, despite its efforts so far, is failing in this. It is not because we are stagnating completely, but it is because in other countries such as Poland, such as our other neighbours, they simply accelerate significantly. The covid showed how important it is to communicate digitally, to provide services digitally, to share data. At this point, I'm not going to talk too much about the law, because that's what we did at first reading. There are also a number of expert discussions for more than six months, whether they are people from the Digital Czech Republic or from other organizations. We, after 20 years of kicking digitalization and creating important elements, such as central registers, CzechPOINTs, come to a limit where the acceleration that is needed in the existing arrangement simply cannot be achieved. So it is time to go the other way, but to see how they did it in other countries, such as Estonia, such as Denmark, new countries like Georgia, but those mentioned above - England, Denmark, Estonia and others - are considered world leaders in digitalisation. The proposed establishment of the DIA will allow the coordination of digitization in the so-called umbrella regime or umbrella organisation, the concentration of other people, because I would like that institution to be the best employer in the future in the area of government, while enabling effective sharing of information, as well as principles between departments or support of superior solutions, which is increasingly not the single-purpose digitization of an operation, but indeed systems that combine agendas and data from individual departments. Digital services under DIA - we will indeed support the creation of effective digital services, including changes in internal processes in the field of Czech digitization. This will then lead to high savings of people's costs, operation, agendas, IT systems. On the draft legislation, but on the whole project, which is also prepared in concrete implementation steps, where the legislation is only a part that establishes the creation of the agency, over 80 people have worked for more than half a year, and continues to prepare the establishment of the agency in cooperation with the given resorts, especially with the Ministry of the Interior. For example, inventory of assets, employee dislocations, room adjustments, security clearances have been created and, if the law is passed on time, the Agency should actually be established on 1 April 2023 and, during the year, with the expected date as at 1. 4. already take up those functions that I mentioned here. Otherwise, the idea of the whole law is very much illustrated by the following passage from the government's programming statement, which reads: "In 2022 we will create central coordination teams and transformation teams supporting the digital transformation of individual central offices. We will thus strengthen the professional personnel capacities of the central authorities for the transformation of processes, better public procurement and their subsequent project management. We will assign sufficient powers and resources to all transformation teams to manage and implement digital transformation." I will repeat on purpose: the management and implementation of the transformation - it is not, which sometimes sounds in public space, a sort of withdrawal of all IT from all our departments, their systems into some one organization, but it should be a dynamic agency modeled by foreign states. After all, recently I was in Tallinn just to meet with the management of such an agency and the results that Estonia achieves, which, on the contrary, is almost twenty years ahead of some solutions - that is amazing and we want to catch up at least in part on this in the following year. The law allows this agency to be created. Let me quote the statement of the previous government, because it is not a matter that is not known in the Czech environment. In her statement, the government of Andrej Babiš or YES and social democracy had: "We will establish one central IT authority for the digitization of the state established at that time by a government agent for digitization, which will be subject directly to the Prime Minister. " We have taken that step that we have a member of the government responsible for digitization as a vice-premier, so this is being done differently in our case - it is not the Prime Minister who has, for example, the SAOKIB under him, but he is a vice-premier for digitalization. I continue to quote from the previous government statement: "It will cover the creation of standards, coordination of works, architecture and other activities that will simplify their development to ministers and ministries, the state office involved in the Digital Czech programme, we will concentrate the IT agenda, define basic principles, standards applicable to state administration and manage the costs, architecture and good supply of projects for which this central IT architecture will bear full responsibility." Government statement YES, CSSD, 8. 1. 2018. [[13.20 hours]] The process started, the covid flew into it, the people who were in charge of this proceeding were engaged in, say, agile projects of rapid solution, Smart Quarantine, Dot, Reader and massive digitalization in the matter of pandemic management. The process has been interrupted, we have followed it up, and in parallel to all the work, this project is actually being created, this law is being created. We need that reorganization. At this point, the real know-how resulting from the Digital Czech Republic has its difficulties failing those ministries. The architecture is solved mainly at the beginning of the projects, not during their course, and, as I have already said, according to foreign models, it is simply the continuous assistance that, for example, in delivery teams or units that can be provided as assistance to solve the individual ministries' orders or their transformation, is absolutely essential. I will not look further at what other and other opportunities are, whether they are working sharing know-how, rather I would say what the Digital and Information Agency is not. It's not a massive establishment. It is indeed rather an organizational change, when there will be a concentration of important agendas, which are fragmented at the moment, and without institutional anchoring they are governed by inter-resor RVIS, which has proved insufficient. Compared to abroad, the DIA should be small and economical. If I take an example from Britain, a similar agency employs 900 people, Denmark 350, Estonia 141, but Estonia has 1.3 million inhabitants, so it is significantly smaller. When we looked at how to work with costs - and there will be a large part of the deletion of some chapters of the Ministry of the Interior, where central registers and others fall - almost half of the costs in the first year will go from the National Recovery Plan and in the state budget we expect the costs that will be recovered in the savings mentioned by the redundant programming of already existing components. We calculated those costs in the first year at 160 million a year. The creation of a separate chapter leads to stable funding, as we have learned to work with the SAO. From my point of view, the DIA is an investment that will actually come back. The calculation of management savings is probably not the subject of today's debate, but I could show them in some projects that, say, were not conducted in accordance with how they should have been from the beginning or how they were thought. DIA is not a state software house, it is no IBM, we are not talking about the fact that it should substitute development in the field of solutions for individual resorts, although, as it turns out, it is not from the point of view in the case of any sudden needs to have experts, such as in the framework of NAKIT, who will simply help implement some ad hoc solution or something that really cannot be subject to public procurement at the given moment for objective reasons. However, the classic development of a digital solution should in no way replace and will be. Indeed, its task is to implement, help, coordinate, methodically lead, share the necessary know-how, but also to ensure the operation and development of those basic systems of Czech digitalization. I mentioned data boxes, I mentioned registers, I mentioned Czech czechpoint. The Law was discussed by two committees to which it was assigned, constitutionally-legal and public administration and regional development committee, and was also discussed by a subcommittee on eGovernment. And I would like to thank those who took part in these negotiations for the debate, which resulted in some amendments coming, both from the constitutionally-legal committee and from the debate between, for example, security forces, bank representatives and insurance companies, and aim to adjust the original proposal, balance the protection of personal data, banking secrecy, interest in the protection of persons and security, for example, which carry out some tasks arising from the security forces. The resulting amendment from the IDA is generally an acceptable compromise, and I would like to thank Marek Benda, who helped mediate this compromise. Then comes the amendments from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, there are eight partial amendments that have again resulted from the work on setting up the Agency itself. Their common objective is to speed up and facilitate the work of the preparatory team and the Agency to ensure appropriate background and staff in the first months of its existence. Maybe what to say in conclusion? The state of eGovernment at the moment cannot be classified as satisfactory given the comparison with the countries that are simply stepping in. The resources that we will have not only from the National Recovery Plan, but also from other digitalisation investments are huge. Indeed, the Czech Republic has a chance to live up to the commitment of digital transformation, as our government has also established, and it is shown from all experience both from abroad that the digital agency and this method of management is really an investment that will not only return to the savings and efficiency of the state in the implementation of individual processes, but also to save time and money for people and companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u3	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee and the press was further ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 287/1 to 3. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Robert králíček, take the floor. And before he comes to the counter, I'm canceling Mr. Hayato Okamura's apology. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u4	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to delay, which is why I will refer to the House Press 287/3 for the Committee on Public Claw and Regional Development, where we have adopted eight amendments on this committee and we have discussed this press. Detailed text can be found in the previously mentioned print 287/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u5	Thank you for the information on the committee's proposal and please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutionally-legal committee adopted the following resolution at its 15th meeting on 5 October 2022: "I. recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to approve the proposal; II. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt this amendment and supplement to this bill, and that in Art. point 20 is deleted; III. Instructs the Vice-President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the examination of this bill at the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and the rapporteur is reporting with priority. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u8	Mr President, colleagues, I would just like to respond briefly to the Minister's words and to some debate that has arisen in recent days at the Pirates press conference and on Twitter. We were accused at a press conference and Twitter by our colleague Michálek that we were throwing the pirát under our feet and that we were preventing the emergence of a Digital Information Agency. If I'm honest, if I look at the time that the Minister has spent his opening statement, which was about eleven minutes, I could talk to him now from 13.28 until two o'clock about how conceptually we disagree with the establishment of this agency, with the factual arguments that I have prepared for about eight pages. But we are not really throwing - and I would ask my colleague Michálek, through the President, not to say this anymore - we are not really throwing sticks at each other. I have already expressed several times at first reading how we conceptually disagree, why we disagree, we have put forward factual arguments. Even this debate on the subcommittee and committee took place factually, so it would be appropriate that the arguments given by the counterparty should then be fair and not accuse us of something that we do not really do. Like I said, I could talk for half an hour, we wouldn't have to negotiate, but I don't want to do it. It's your project that you came up with as a coalition, we respect 108 votes. We'll just disagree, so you'll get away with it, you'll get away with it in the third reading, and you can make it happen, and we'll see who was right in a few years. But it's not like we're throwing sticks at you. You see, I've cut my output down to about two minutes, other colleagues will talk, so please let us use at least a little fair argument as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I remind you that we are in the general debate, and Mr Robert Stržínek was the first to come forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, perhaps the Minister will forgive me if I am a little critical right now, but I think it will not be anything to prevent further discussion. Last week, the eGovernment subcommittee discussed the House Press 287 and the amendments attached to it from the Ministry's pen, which are now nine. Subsequently, there was a discussion on this press on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. There is no doubt that digitalisation is the goal, but different paths lead to this goal. The path chosen by the Minister, i.e. the creation of a Digital and Information Agency, generates many questions and I have serious doubts that this is a direct, economical and efficient path. A large debate was held on the organizational structure of the Agency, on dislocation, staffing, financial collateral, file separation and contractual relations. An important topic is the changing position of NAKITu and the possibility or rather the impossibility of in-house procurement within the Ministry of the Interior. This law, or amendment of Act No. 12/2020 Coll., I see as to some extent the joint work of Minister Bartoš and a team of people from the Ministry of the Interior. The opposition to its preparation and creation was not invited, and not only the opposition. The Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry and Trade was excluded from the expert debate and its reservations were also clearly formulated by the ICT Union. A broad debate is needed, among other things, because this big legislative change - by the way, the Parliamentary press 287 has 196 pages, interferes with a total of thirteen laws, in the amendment to the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on Digital Services, in the amendment to the Act on the Establishment of Ministries and other Central Authorities of the Czech Republic, in the amendment of the Act on the National Statistical Service, in the amendment of the Act on the State Enterprise, in the amendment of the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration, in the amendment of the Act on Electronic Acts and the Authorized Conversion of Documents, in the amendment of the Act on Basic Registers, in the State Service, in the Services creating Trust for Electronic Transactions, in electronic identification, in the further amendment of the Act on Accessibility of Websites and Mobile Applications, and in the thirteenth amendment of the Civil Cards Act. The wider debate is thus certainly worthy of the staffing of this agency, which is expected to include nearly 400 employees in the target form, in an area where there is an absolute lack of necessary professions, i.e. specialised IT experts. A separate personnel chapter is then the apparatus of the Minister, i.e. the Information Society Council, which, according to the information available, should be 16 plus 32, i.e. 48 members. Operating and transformation costs should also be discussed in themselves, as we are talking about hundreds of millions of crowns. Only normal operating costs are estimated within the DIA after it was run at CZK 260 million. The Agency's seat is supposed to be in Prague, but at least an open discussion would deserve alternatives such as Ostrava or Brno, the more so than that it is a digital agency where it was said directly by the Minister that a small part of the positions can be dealt with in the form of a so-called home office. The subject of the discussion is also the position of Director of the DIA. Will he be under service law, or will the Minister be able to withdraw him at any time? The representatives of the ICT Union propose that the bill be rejected or returned to discussion in a broad plenary, both public and professional, so as to obtain maximum support not only for Members and Senators, but also for those entities that will implement the follow-up. The ICT Union expresses its concern that the adoption of this law may jeopardise the functioning of the Czech eGovernment. There are also great concerns about the impact of this law on the implementation of already ongoing eGovernment projects and other ICT projects in the Czech Republic. As a result, the concept presented can mean the emergence of a number of competence disputes and chaos in the implementation of many digitalisation projects financed by the National Recovery Plan, with the threat of drawing them up. The competencies between the Agency, NAKIT, Cendis, SPCSS, i.e. the State Treasury Centre, the Administration of Basic Registers, the Council of the Government for the Information Society and the Ministry of the Interior are unclear. There is no clear competence of the Agency towards individual accounts. It is not clear to finance what the Agency is supposed to operate in the future. The newly created DIA in many cases is a copy of the RVIS activity, which also does not disappear and will function simultaneously. I have spoken about finances and problematic staffing with regard to the lack of qualified experts before. Last but not least, I would like to mention the opinion of the basic organisation of the Trade Union of State Authorities and Organisations at the Ministry of the Interior, which reflects the legitimate concerns of civil servants and employees in the employment relationship included in the Ministry of the Interior. From their material, I quote briefly: "We certainly do not resist any possible transformation, however, it is striking how the petitioners are pushed to discuss the House press as quickly as possible, and we fear that the pressure on the rapid adoption of the transformation may have negative effects on the employees of the departments concerned and, as a result, on the functioning of the entire eGovernment in the Czech Republic." So much on my part a few observations, in particular from the meeting of the subcommittee on eGovernment and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon, colleagues, with priority rights, Minister Bartoš will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u12	I'd like to thank you for the input. Perhaps I would like to respond in many of the things that have been said here, including the participation of the professional public in those eight months of work. Both the representatives of the ICT Union were members of the Steering Committee and, for example, the people from the Confederation of Industry and Transport are part of the Czech digital team with which the matter was consulted. I am very happy because I received a letter on the last committee, and we have already answered it, we have met with representatives of the ICT Union on this internal state change from the issues of contracts, ongoing projects. All of these things are handled in a clear way and, of course, they are dealt with, for example, contractual obligations that are at this point in time against individual entities, which are not affected. So I just wanted to react quickly, and at the same time - and I have already announced this to the House's leadership - I have a meeting that is about to take place with Mr. President, and I asked Mr. Lipavský if he could represent me with the petitioner at this point, and he has a number of information at his disposal. [[unintelligible]] And, of course, I am also further available in this matter in further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u13	Thank you, Minister, so I record your apology by the end of the day and will be represented by Minister Lipavský. We will now continue the debate. Mrs Klára Dostálová is applied for, and Mr Ondřej Kolář will be prepared. And before I give the lady my word, I'll read the apologies. Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 13 to 9 for personal reasons, Ondřej Benešík from 12.40 to 9 for work reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav from 11.30 to 9 - family reasons, Jakub Janda from 13 to 9 - working reasons, KaňkovskKaňkovský Vít from 13.30 to 9 for work reasons, Věra Kovářová from 9 to 11.40 - working reasons, Zdeněk Němečková Crkvenjaš from 13.05 to 9 - family reasons and Mrs Jana Pastuchová from 13 to nine for family reasons. President Schillerová shall speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would therefore like to ask the Minister very much: I understand that he certainly has working reasons, I do not question them, but I would like Minister Bartoš to stay here, because this law, I hear constantly that he is a flagship or one of the flagships of the Pirate Party. Yesterday, when we found a deal with five coalitions to end the meeting day at 18 o'clock, so this will be included, and I think there will be some pretty serious things going on here, so I'd like the minister to stay here. Now I don't know if he's gonna stay here or not, so I'm not gonna make a procedural proposal, thank you. Thank you, because I wanted to make a procedural proposal, which makes no sense if Minister Bartoš stays here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Bartoš will respond with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u16	The conflict - it was also a matter for me to appreciate the Village of the Year, which I think after two years of pause in the covid is quite a joyous thing, but if this condition is second reading, I will be happy to stay here and respond to those things. Of course, I'm looking for my entrance to the award ceremony.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u17	Thank you, Minister, so you're canceling your apology and staying behind the rapporteur's desk. Mrs Klára Dostálová will now appear and Mr Ondřej Kolář will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and thank you to the Minister for staying here, because I initially thought that I would not speak on this subject, but I consider it very necessary to draw the House's attention - because I do not remember that this would ever happen in the past, so that Members should be approached by the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, that is, the administration of state administration basically, and I really consider it essential that the Minister should be there, so I am very glad that he stayed here. I will try to be as brief as I can in what my colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior want to tell us, but their arguments, which you all have in your e-mail boxes, deserve attention. I'm really going to read some of the most important things that they're talking to us with. From their point of view, the legislative form presented to the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the related aspects, poses fundamental risks to employees, both in terms of the work itself and in terms of their status and entitlements. As a deadline for the launch of the DIA, on 1 January 2023, artificial pressure was created for the rapid adoption of the proposed changes. The very emergence of the DIA is contrary to Government Resolution 289, which repeatedly envisages in its annexes the transfer of the department to the Office of the Government, not the establishment of a separate office. These observations were rejected by the petitioners in general, taking note of them and solving everything. For the sake of completeness it can be added that the meetings of the working groups were poor quality, also administratively no records were made for documents, up to three different storage sites were used, persons representing the petitioners communicated from their private e-mail addresses and so on. The first of the working groups began to meet in May 2022, a month after the Government's resolution was adopted. Some groups, such as the registers, have only met once. The reminder procedure lasted only 14 days and, in addition to the petitioner, the draft amendments were sent only to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. No other ministries or other central government bodies, including those managing key information systems of public administration, such as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Czech office of survey and cadastral, let alone intelligence services or organisations representing the professional public, have been informed of the bill in any way. It follows from the material that the content is very poor as well as the RIA, that it is possible to mention the absence of any mention of the eGovernment department or that, as a foreign example, the most appropriate is the creation of a separate office, the arrangement was mentioned in four countries, of which the three mentioned that the eGovernment body was part of the Ministry, and that the fourth State was completely lacking information on this arrangement. However, practically all the comments were settled by the so-called explanation, so he actually rejected them. The proposed material was submitted to the Government for discussion with six contradictions. The draft amendments in question were not approved by the Government in a uniform manner. The Minister of Finance has abstained. Subsequently, the proposal was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, where again, with justification and time pressure, the petitioners tried to have it approved at first reading. And perhaps the opinion of the Government Legislative Council, which points out, is also worth mentioning, and I quote: "Since the translator declared a political agreement to discuss the draft law at the government meeting on 17 August 2022, it should also be noted that there has been very little room for proper consideration of the comments made by the Working Groups of the Government Legislative Council." It is therefore not surprising that the process described above generated significant risks, concerns on the part of the staff of the departments concerned. As the Ministry of the Interior itself has repeatedly pointed out not only in commentary proceedings, are these topics in particular? the proposed changes were not discussed with the trade union organisation of the Ministry of the Interior, there was no change in the collective agreement and collective agreement. According to the petitioners, the draft state budget for 2023 is only to be supplemented by the DIA on the basis of a parliamentary amendment. The proposal submitted by the Government does not mention the DIA. Employees were repeatedly guaranteed to cross 1 : 1, which means that all existing employees will pass and their status as a salary class, grade, employee benefits, etc. will be retained. It was only at the said meeting that, despite previous notice by the petitioners, they realized that part of the employees would not be able to go at all in this way, since the funds were provided to them from the European Union, a so-called implementation unit which does not allow the transfer of such employees in the foreseeable way. It was also disproved by the management of the Ministry of the Interior that some benefits could continue to be provided to demolished employees. The change was not sufficiently discussed with the Services Facility of the Ministry of Interior, which is, among other things, the owner of the Centrotex building where the DIA is supposed to be based, according to the petitioners. Despite the government's programming statement and other statements that speak of debyrocratisation, it is envisaged that the number of new employees should be accepted that the DIA should have almost double its staff compared to the transferred departments. Of course, there's a whole series of complaints. The employees of the Ministry of the Interior also experience risks in the sense that it is a threat to the performance of the agendas they provide, not only to the agendas of the departments concerned, but also to the agenda of the Ministry of the Interior as a whole. Previous attempts at eGovernment - for example, the Office for the State Information System or the Ministry of Informatics - have proved unsuccessful. The department of experts ensuring the electronisation of public administration from public administration will break coordination between the said parts, the absence of sharing of know-how and so on and so on and so on. All these aspects are perceived very strongly by the staff of the departments concerned as they lead to a deterioration in the conditions for the effective performance of their work. In view of the above, which are essential from our point of view, employees, civil servants propose that the bill be rejected or returned to discussion. So much, because otherwise I say, we all have this letter from the Home Office employees available in my e-mail boxes, so I'm definitely not gonna read it all here. I would just like to point out that this is really not a common practice. I do not remember that such a thing would happen to one resort to turn to the Chamber of Deputies with such reproaches. I myself have many complaints about this, especially from the point of view of in-house procurement, because I really believe that it will not work, that one central government body will not be able to manage on the basis of the so-called horizontal cooperation of the other ministries. We have dealt with other agendas several times, and we have always, actually with the UOHS, come to the conclusion that such a department would have to raise all the money of all budgets so that it could do computer science for them or actually electronize public administration as such. And just one last remark, 300 people and more isn't a small office, that's a little bit more office. But I would like to suggest - I know we're at second reading, but I would like to propose that we put the proposal back into revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u19	Madame, you made a motion to dismiss, then you made a motion to return to... no, you made a motion to return to the debate. [[Ms Dostálová: For recasting.]] [[Member Dostálová: No, to recast.]] That's not the way to propose. We are in second reading and according to § 93 para. The guarantee committee may be re-negotiated only by means of a proposal to re-negotiate the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u20	So I propose to the guarantee committee to renegotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u21	Okay, I've noticed your proposal. So we can continue the discussion. Now, Mr Ondřej Kolář, who is enrolled in the general debate, will be prepared by Mrs Marie Pošarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, good morning again. I will only allow myself to justify briefly the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. We presented him together with colleagues Josef Bernard, Marek Výborný and Karel Haas, and his aim is to delay the termination of the registration of birth numbers in civil documents by one year, i.e. until 31. 12. 2024. It is true that the government decided to end the registration of birth numbers in civil documents in 2010, it should have ended in 2020, but the current legislation envisages the abolition of the birth numbers at 31. 12. 2023. For the purpose of unambiguous identification, the birth numbers are intended to replace the meaningless directional identifier, or the abbreviation BSI, but unfortunately public information systems are not yet prepared for this change and there is no explanation of the use of the BSI, i.e. the meaningless directional identifier, in a number of spheres, such as insurance, health care or pension funds. Mr Benda's amendment to the Parliamentary Press 139, in the system registered under number 1181, which postpones the end of the search in the Insolvency Register by birth number until the entry into service of the new Insolvency Register, and in order to facilitate the transition to the new BSI system and meaningless client identifiers during the year 2024, allows parallel searches according to the native numbers, including new identifiers. The Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee has adopted a positive opinion on this amendment and today, as part of the third reading of the House press 139, it is therefore necessary to ensure the presentation of the birth numbers in civil documents in 2023, otherwise it would be from 1. 1. 2024 was not - sorry, 2024 - because searching in registers using native numbers would otherwise not be possible. This does not only concern the insolvency register, other information systems such as the enforcement register, which is also waiting for the amendment of the law, which will introduce a similar regulation to that of the insolvency register, would be in trouble. As I said, I will then sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u23	Thank you, too. She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I didn't want to delay second reading, and that would mean calling it back to the guarantee committee, so it would mean voting today. I'm gonna do it at third reading, so I'm downloading my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u25	You're dropping the motion for a refund? You leave it to rejection. [[Clearing up off the mic.]] Repeating second reading, so that only the motion to reject remains. I just have information for you - based on the agreement of the presidents of all clubs, we will discuss this point and then they will follow paragraphs 28 and 53. It's a deal for all the clubs. We will continue the general debate on this proposal, this House press... Mr. Rozvoral reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. It's not true. I said I didn't want to do it. Mr. Michálek was behind me, and we talked about not wanting to do this, so it's not all the clubs' deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u27	I'm sorry, Ambassador, I didn't have that information. Mr. Marek Benda will now perform with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u28	The mistake is on my side, please. I apologise to Mr Kobza and to the Vice-President for misinformed her, but it is an agreement of the majority of the Chamber of Deputies. [[♪ He's the right guy ♪ ♪ He's]] And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u29	Yes. The Member of the Rozvoral accepts the apology. [[Fun.]] Thank you. We will therefore continue with the general debate, and I ask Mrs Marie Pošarová now to take the floor. Madam? Mrs Marie Pošarová is present. Yes, she's already noted my challenge. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are against the amendment as a whole. It is expensive, non-systemic, and it makes no sense to establish another office when each resort has the relevant unions. We must also not forget the important, contrary right - the right not to use digitalisation, but to go to the authorities normally. Many people don't want to act electronically, have a data box, a bank identity. Discussing the intention and its legislative form presented...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u31	I apologize, Madame, for interrupting. I ask that you calm down so that the Member can give her speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u32	The discussion of the intention and its legislative form presented to the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the related aspects, poses fundamental risks to employees, both in terms of the work itself and in terms of their status and entitlements. On 6 April 2022, the Government approved the implementation of the transformation, coordination and management project on the basis of which the proposed changes were to be implemented. Until the adoption of this resolution, the trade union organisation, let alone the employees, was not informed in any way that this intention was being prepared, let alone that a Government resolution was proposed. The resolution set the date for the launch of the Digital Agency on 1 January 2023, thereby creating artificial pressure for the rapid adoption of expected changes, which was subsequently repeatedly argued by the petitioners. Following the adoption of the resolution, four or five working groups were created by the Office of the Government as the promoter of the proposed amendments. The working groups were invited by the employees of the Ministry of the Interior, who, together with employees of other stakeholders, state enterprises - National Agency for Communication and Information Technologies or the State Treasury The Centre for Shared Services, as well as other bodies, such as the Ministry of Finance, drew attention to the risks associated with the intention and procedure of its implementation. It is possible to add that the present persons representing the petitioners seemed unprepared, we dare to say incompetent, because only in the negotiations of these working groups were they surprised to find out what was actually necessary in connection with the transformation, such as property aspects including relations with suppliers, protection of classified information, which employees are in employment and who are in service, what is the difference at all between the Labour Code and the Civil Service Act, the transfer of files and so on. A good example of incompetence can be seen, inter alia, in the course of the proceedings of the petitioners with representatives of the security community, where none of the representatives of the drafter was equipped with appropriate security clearance, even if classified information was to be discussed at the hearing. There have been repeated changes in the classification of the departments concerned and the agendas, changes in the name of the Digital Agency. Indeed, the very creation of the Digital Agency is contrary to the above-mentioned Government Resolution 289, which repeatedly envisages in its annexes the transfer of the departments concerned to the Office of the Government, not the creation of a new office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u33	Thank you, Madame. I ask, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate again? I see no one, I end the general debate. I'm asking... okay, so Chairman Michálek doesn't want to talk, or does he want to? No. Excellent. I'm asking if the Minister is interested in the final words? [[No.]] The rapporteur? Not either. So I am now initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the debate must always be justified. Mr Petr Letocha, Mr Ondřej Kolář, is prepared to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u34	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare to the amendment, House document number 1436. The aim of the amendment is to abolish until now, before the effective entry into force, but not to effectively modify the automatic establishment of personal data boxes to those natural persons who use an electronic identification device within a qualified electronic identification system. The adjustment should be effective on 1 January 2022. [[14.00 hours]] By natural persons, the automatic establishment of a data box, which may be deactivated by an active act by a natural person, is perceived to be too burdensome. It therefore proposes a return to the previous adjustment, when the data box of a natural person is set up exclusively at its request, which can be done simply and electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ondřej Kolář will now appear, Mr Jiří Havránek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u36	Thank you again, Madam President. I am reporting for an amendment that is recorded in the system under number 1426. It is the amendment of MEPs Ondřej Kolář, Josef Bernard, Marek Výborný and Karel Haas, whose aim is to delay the end of the registration of birth numbers in civil documents by one year, i.e. until 31. 12. 2024, so that search in various registers of the public administration is not compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jiří Havránek will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u38	Have a good Friday again. I also apply to two amendments, first of all to the proposal, which is in the system under number 1437, which concerns the security directional identifier, as was also mentioned here by my colleague Kolář. I completely understand that there is a delay, i.e. the cancellation of birth numbers, but I believe that this is the last delay. My amendment relates to the fact that the security directional identifier is issued on the basis of a combination of data whose implementation has shown that there is lack of functionality, provision of current data, i.e. this amendment complements this functionality and has been consulted with the department of the main architect of eGovernment of the Ministry of the Interior. The second amendment to which I submit is under number 1427 when, with effect from 1 January 2021, banks and branches of foreign banks have been granted access to the basic registers based on the regulation of the Bank Act. Practical experience with the use of access to information systems of the public administration creates the need to extend access to the above mentioned entities first of all on the type of data box identifiers and secondly on the type of residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. This amendment was discussed with both the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u39	Thank you. The President of Michálek will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u40	Thank you for the floor. I have therefore entered into a detailed debate to read several technical amendments. The first proposal is House document 1420, which I am applying for. It is about moving agendas that are carried out by officials who are being transferred to the Digitalization Agency. The second proposal is the establishment of competence centres, House document 1422. The third proposal concerns the assessment of technical assessment, House document 1423. And the fourth proposal that I am referring to is the amendments to the management of the basic registers, House document 1424. Finally, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-010-012.u41	Yes, I have therefore noted your proposal to shorten the time limits between second and third reading to 7 days. No one is to be heard in a detailed debate, and I am ending in a detailed debate. And I wonder if the Minister is interested in the final word? Neither does the rapporteur. We would therefore now deal with the vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. I'll take the liberty of checking you all out and I'll ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'll rejoin and call in colleagues from the lobby. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. I will repeat what we will be voting on: we will vote on a proposal to shorten the time limits for third reading to 7 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 127, 100 Members of Parliament signed up, for 56, versus 41. The proposal was adopted and we have therefore reduced the deadline to 7 days. I'm ending second reading of this bill. Before we start negotiating paragraph 28, I'll read the apologies. Mr Jan Jakob apologizes from 14 to 9 without giving any reason. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Now we're going to talk about the next point, paragraph 28, and that is
