ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u1	1. Discussion of the proposal to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic The group of 74 Members exercised its right and pursuant to Section 84 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, submitted a motion for distrust to the Government. Colleagues, my colleague, my dear government, allow me to inform you of the results of the grémia meeting before the beginning of this meeting. It was agreed that Mr Andrej Babiš will speak for the plaintiff at the beginning, then Prime Minister Fiala will speak, Tomio Okamura will follow as the plaintiff, and then the zippers will all speak with priority rights, i.e. only up to the number of priority rights of the opposition. This means that, overall, ten Members will be speaking. We would then start the debate. In the debate, everyone will first speak in writing with priority rights, and then, later, Members who have been enrolled in writing or who still sign up during this meeting. So much information from the Gremia meeting. And now, I ask that an authorised representative of the plaintiffs take the first floor, and that is Mr Andrej Babiš. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] And before she gets off, I would ask you, colleagues, for peace. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u2	Hello, honourable Members. The YES movement before the House today presents a motion for distrust to the government. The reason is simple. Prime Minister Fiala and his ministers can't control our country. Not only did they commit the appointment of a corrupter to the forehead of foreign intelligence, but in particular the energy crisis has completely out of hand. Due to the total inactivity of the government, energy Armageddon, total economic collapse and widespread social unrest threaten the Czech Republic. [[13.10 hours]] Instead of admitting it, the government threw a towel in the ring and resigned, took the hostages of its own citizens and Czech companies, which it plans to take with it into the abyss. This is no longer about the exchange of one minister, whether he is the arrogant Mr. Síkela, the corrupt Mr. Rakušan, the chaotic Mr. Válek or the absent Mr. Stanjura, the entire government headed by the weak and clueless Prime Minister of the Fiala must end. It's a government built on lying, arrogance, disdain, incompetence, organized crime and corruption. The only tangible result of this government is international shame, organised crime in government and an unprecedented decline in standard of living across society - families with children, single parents, pensioners, students, employees, businessmen and entrepreneurs. This is the government of a national disaster. This is the government that promised in its programming statement that there would be government changes, changes for the future. With your government, Prime Minister, our country has no future. Fialův's government has already done irreparable damage, failed at full speed. She tragically underestimated the situation when, even in March, at the beginning of the crisis, she had the opportunity to choose a turn. Unlike the vast majority of European governments, she did nothing but sit, wait and watch the inflation spiral spin, as energy and food prices rocketally rise, how life savings literally disappear before people's eyes and how poor citizens are. Because of the inability and cluelessness of the Fialův government, we're no longer talking about avoiding impact on the wall, but how hard the impact will be. The energy crisis is beginning to decompose our society. People can't pay for energy, some companies and businesses have already packed it up, and we still have winter ahead. Now, Prime Minister, 78 percent of people don't trust you, so congratulations, you've reached first place in distrust in all of Europe. In the same way, you have proved that our citizens, taking into account purchasing power, have unparalleledly the most expensive electricity in the European Union. In Prague, electricity is more expensive than in London, Copenhagen or Berlin. Electricity contracts are now much more expensive, the price for us even exceeded the threshold of EUR 1,000 at the beginning of the week, i.e. some 25 000 crowns per megawatt hour, and a year ago it was 90, yes, 90 euros. It is similar with natural gas, the price of which a few days ago reached a historical maximum of around EUR 346 per megawatt hour. It was 30 a year ago. We're industrialized countries, and those companies aren't gonna tighten it up. They don't trust you, Prime Minister, 97 percent of the business public. If they start bankrupting companies, people will lose their jobs, they will trigger a domino effect, at the end of which there will be a deep economic recession that none of us can remember. The last one won't even have to turn off the lights, because it won't be any longer. The Czech Republic is facing an unprecedented crisis. The government has less than a month to prepare itself thoroughly for the winter. But what did the government do so far? Stop sending signals, discussing and meeting, and start doing something. It was too late yesterday! All citizens, businessmen, small and large companies, industry, railways, hospitals, schools, social services, self-government, even your own captains urge you to stop sitting with your hands in your lap and finally start helping people and companies effectively - exactly what we have been telling you since March or even before, including any possible aid options - without any response. Get out of your small-sided palaces among the people. Listen to what's bothering them in the square, what they're afraid of and what they're dealing with. Listen to the stories of single mothers deciding whether to buy a snack or pay their rent. Listen to seniors who have worked hard all their lives, how their entire pension is not enough to pay backup on energy. Listen to the businessmen who throw a towel in the ring, because they can't tighten your price anymore. Anti-Babish will not pay the bills, as Mrs Schillerová says. If you crossed the Republic like me, 205 stops, you'd know very well what people are dealing with. The more you're afraid to pull your heels out of Prague, the more you can give princely advice on how to survive the winter. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Mrs Pekarová, who believes that the government is not here to help citizens, is particularly good at this. Madam President of the House advises people to get a sweater, and when they're cold, put on two sweaters. The President of the Senate Vystrčil out of the ODS again telling people that higher energy reserves should be managed on their own. Minister of Finance Stanjura advises people to download heating, the Minister of Industry plans to order to drown in living rooms at 18 degrees, yes, to put 18 degrees - it runs on networks - not to put energy price on the ceiling, but to put 18 degrees on the ceiling. You can't even see the tip of your nose. Instead of your unsolicited advice, you should all listen to what the Minister of Justice Blažek says. As the only member of this incompetent and clueless government, he is aware of the seriousness of the situation. It's five past 12 o'clock, start doing something real! The crisis will not resolve itself - and I know something about it. But it takes a job, a move on the goal, decision-making, driving - these are all concepts you don't know. And this government, which only works from Tuesday to Thursday, doesn't have it in its genes. When there is a crisis, Prime Minister, there is no holiday on the Croatian Riviera, Prime Minister. When there is a crisis, he sits in Prague and works from morning to night, and even overnight as we did through covid. The government also meets several times a day, flies abroad and deals with European leaders. There are no weekends, let alone extended weekends or vacations. But the Prime Minister and his ministers have their own country on the hook, because all they care about is sticking to the trough as long as possible - after nine months, you've accomplished about 3 percent of the sober estimate from your programming statement. Three percent! Where did your promises go? Where is the VAT reduction? Where is the VAT reduction for the construction or reconstruction of apartments and houses? You promised to reduce social security - 2 percent, 10,000 built apartments. Well, Mr. Bartoš was looking for an ad for someone to advise him on his apartments - unbelievable. Automatic valorisation of minimum wage? Retirement reform? An increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions? Where is it? You try to mask your incompetence and inaction by making excuses for Babiš and the previous government, of course. Three quarters of a year after the election, it's a joke to all people. Today's disastrous situation is the result of your reign. You're making the beer expensive! Yes, the Plzeň Prazdroj, which you missed within the IPB, Czech beer, theft in broad daylight, 24 billion away then, and now 100 billion! So the beer, which is Japanese today, belongs to a Japanese company, it's expensive. And Mrs Pekarová would like to privatise Budvar - excellent. So the less you work, the more persistent you lie. You lied about solving debt. You lied about not raising taxes. You lied about stopping inflation. You lied about not letting companies down. You lied about solving the energy crisis. You lied about enough gas. This is not about the cartridges, this is about Europe having only 21 percent of its annual gas consumption on stocks today. And you lied about solving emission allowances. You lied about leading our country out of the crisis. And you lied about bringing values and a new political culture. Inactivity, lying, you've built your entire political career. You lie to people's eyes all the time, you lie to them in the morning, noon, in the evening. And now let's look at these resorts - foreign and European politics. I think there's no point in dealing with Mr. Lipavský and Mr. Šalamoun, who are absolutely irrelevant. I'll turn to the Prime Minister. First of all, why did he marry Mr. Bek at all? What does he need it for? [[13.20 hours]] I know, Prime Minister, you weren't in a hurry to see the European Council where I was. On December 13th, we acted - the four of you broke - in Budapest with Macron, and on December 16, I was, and I thought you'd be in a hurry there as I was in a hurry. December 13, 2017 was established by our government and on the 14th morning I flew to a place that is most important for the Czech Republic within Europe, a place where you have to fight for Czech interests, but you did not rush. There was Mr. Scholz, who tells us that we should probably consider losing the unanimity that Bartoš and Mrs. Pekarová are fighting for. Unbelievable, unbelievable! And I'm at the European Council on December 16th, check it out, he said to Mr Scholz, "Why, Mr. New Chancellor, are you blocking and opposed to the Czech core?" Of course, there was an Austrian Prime Minister sitting next to him, to whom I also explained. Why? December 16th, yes, behind closed doors. That's where it gets hard. How many nights have we spent there? And who was involved in the fact that those crazy fanatics from the European Parliament came up with Green Deal and Germany said they were going to be a tsunami? Japan shut down the core, they shut down the coal. Coal over gold today, coal over gold. So I was performing there. You weren't in a hurry, Prime Minister, you weren't in a hurry, and you weren't supposed to name anyone, that's your role. And I ask, what were you doing before the Presidency? Macron offered you a meeting twice, you didn't have time. You rushed here to the House, it was Friday morning, V four didn't even sit down, and you weren't here, you weren't even sitting here. After all, we would rather have you fight for Czech interests in Europe! You haven't coordinated this with anyone, you haven't lobbied Parliament, so what's the result? And you have a huge advantage, you have a presidency. You should've flown all over Europe! I'd fly around with that airbus, at least three premieres every day, and talk to everyone, even about emission permits, that's what I'm gonna get to. [[I'd like to]] And instead, you were dealing with Ukraine. I understand that Ukraine is important, but here we are in the Czech Republic and here is a threat to the lives of our citizens. So you have taken over the Presidency that we have prepared. We've been preparing it for three years - you have a beautiful garden, I'll go there one Saturday. You'll have a new terminal, that's our work too. And the pro-government media that won you the election - why don't you finish the project for them so she can have a nice space for questions you didn't even want to answer at the beginning? It's also our project, there's a new cafeteria. Yes, Tünde organized everything, and I'm glad you thanked us at least, of course I appreciate that immensely. If I were you, I'd be flying all over Europe by March. You're sitting next to Macron. This is Emanuel Macron, Europe's best leader, still working, speaking to the point. This is where Angela used to go, she always stuck her head in here, they consulted, and then she walked past the table. Scholz doesn't do that. That's the most important place you're blocking. There we stopped the illegal migration that we now have in the Zlín Region, and of course Rakušan has enough problems to deal with it at all. That's where we put the taxonomy, where we sat for four nights and five days, and I fought for 42 billion extra! But you bailed. There you have - and now you have a huge advantage, it is incredible that the Polish Prime Minister, this is a country that has 40 million inhabitants, finally instead of talking about emission permits and the official Ursula von der Leyen I like, that's a fine lady, it normally kills. They're clerks! We have always said that the European Council is to run Europe! The European Council, 27 presidents and prime ministers, is where you sit. tadymít Magdalena, Social Democrat, Švédka. When I asked her how many sharia centers in Sweden, how it looks with migration - they woke up already, you were supposed to be there. That's where you're supposed to fly all over Europe! Now you're coming up with some kind of pan-European solution? Now? Now, September? Unbelievable. So you're Europe's boss, and I don't feel like you're dealing with anything. And I also ask why nobody talks about peace in Europe? Will we still have war? I didn't hear that word. I think people would like us to have peace, but it doesn't look like it yet. So in short, for the role you created there, Mr. New Minister, you got rid of people just like that, just because they were good officials who were there before me. You keep talking about some agrofertization, but I'll get to that. And those who prepared it, we did the Presidency for three years, and we prepared it well, of course they're gone because they were unlucky to be working with Babiš. So what about Green Deal? I would very much like Mr Vondra to stop lying about Green Deal. We didn't sign any Green Deal, and I signed with Morawiecki - who you have such great relationships with, which resulted into that stupid contract with Turów, where they're actually still taking our water - I agreed and agreed that the emission reduction commitment is the average of all member countries, 55 percent, so Mette Frederiksen, who is Prime Minister of Denmark, has 70 because she still has propellers at sea, and we have, we get somewhere at 40, 42, but even after the war started, the whole Green Deal sucks. Green Deal is going to kill Europe, and you're still going to end coal? I mean, coal's over gold! I didn't even get it when I was filming. čau, guys. All I had was wood, fireplace and Mrs. Pekarová's sweater. Coal is not, OKD also has 5 billion in the bill and can benefit from 6 million coals. [[tons?]] So with Green Deal - you sent Mrs. Hubáčková there, she actually screwed up her own country because she nodded to ban combustion engines in 2035 and supported emission allowances for buildings, which would make people and companies more warm, and even in today's situation she is very seriously promoting a diversion from coal in 2033. So, Prime Minister, you're not dealing with the energy crisis at all. Now, six months after the other Member States have already implemented protective measures for their economies and when the price of electricity is climbing into astronomical heights, starting to call for a pan-European solution, that is naive. Your Minister Kupka says you will try Europe first, but why is it taking so long? Why haven't you already called an extraordinary European Council? Why is the Energy Council not until September 9th? Why doesn't Mr. Síkela speak against emission permits? Why don't you cancel the 100 euro directive? Yes, the Polish Prime Minister does it for you, but you criticized me. You said how you're gonna do it - you don't do it, you don't talk there. You said here after Ukraine, there will be a total embargo on Russian oil. Well, then you said you wanted an exception. And who got it, the exception? Viktor Orbán, not you! You're sitting there and you're not saying anything! So energy, electricity, you should have done something for people six months ago. So that's what it looks like, and since you've already broken the V four and the V four had a huge impact when Ursula von der Leyen became President of the European Commission, she flew to Paris first of course and then flew to Warsaw. The four of them have pushed through a lot of things, a lot of things. But, of course, your colleagues Pekarová, who said that Maďar should not vote for Orbán, and Mr Bartoš forbade you from seeing Hungary. So why was Mr. Stanjura visiting the Minister of Finance Varga and asking him how to raise taxes, how the audience would accept it and what marketing is like? So to foreign policy: the four is gone, the results are not any, so what are we going to do? It looks like we're gonna be riding horse carriages here next January. If you were serious about the Europe-wide solution, you would have done something about the emission allowances. [[13.30 hours]] And you kept criticizing me. You were still attacking me in the election debate, that's what I did, okay? And I'm asking, what did you do? I wrote three letters, I wrote three letters, I got there four times, I got Portugal, I got Spain on my side and the Greek Prime Minister. And you said what, Prime Minister? You said 22. 9. 2021 before the elections: I think that the next government must concentrate on the prices of emission allowances, because a tonne of CO2 is now being paid for some EUR 59, with half of it in January. Then you said 3. 10. 2021 that I have done nothing and that energy prices need to be discussed, and what we will do at European level, if the Czech Prime Minister did not discuss emission permits there, the market with them in the way they are dealt with cannot be done otherwise, that energy prices are rising. That's all you said. And what happened after the election when you became Prime Minister? Well, nothing, nothing. Now the Polák talks about it, you don't talk about it, Minister Síkela doesn't talk about it either. Yes, you can argue today that how much electricity costs? Yes, how much is it? I don't know, 600 is, 600? But you should argue mainly about how much, for example, CEZ produces electricity in nuclear power plants. Core - Temelín and Dukovany are written off. How much are they costing? 20, 30 euros? They're all drowning in billions, tens of billions of profits. And you? Nothing. It's okay. You should have immediately... And why didn't you settle Ursula? I know that the European Commission has the money and that it is all inside out that the European Council should run the European Commission, but Mrs Ursula said: 'Morawiecki is unlucky.' Then call the council. Stand by to break the directive. Yes, it's 100 euros, maybe it's not enough, but it's too much. It's too much, and it's your hypocrisy, how you criticized me, and now you're doing nothing! I did something - yes, it's hard, I understand it's hard, this is Mrs Ursula. Poland has proposed the end of emission allowances due to energy prices. Leyenová refused, Leyenová has been stalling taxonomy since April. We have always asked her to finally do something - yes, unfortunately, that is how Europe works. The Commission, it has money, yes, they often determine and say who is good in Europe. What about Poland, Mrs Jourová? Rule of Law, LGBT, abortion, everything wrong, right? And now they've picked up the anti-Russian flag and it's okay. That's Europe. These are officials, officials of no-one's choice. We sent to Europe. [[Arabs?]] The Prime Minister and the presidents of Europe are supposed to make decisions, not that Mrs Ursula here is going to grease the Polish Prime Minister on bread. Hey, get out of here. Yes, and you know why? When we played Game of Thrones all night long, it was a stain fight, a sushi deal, a deal from Osaka that Timmermans was gonna be chairman, the Vé 4 got another country so that the lunatic Timmermans wouldn't be there. Ursula is there, but she probably kissed the ring to the green fanatics in the European Parliament, and they still haven't woke up. Where's Greta? Why isn't Greta screaming? Well, because they're dealing with Israel. Global influences, global influences. So, Prime Minister, please, you are the most important person who can fight for Czech interests. And now you have Europe there, so I hope you'll finally get active, because it's not working so far. And I know you perform very carefully - there was Mr. Scholz, all smiles, Olaf here, Olaf there. And Mr. Scholz wants to take away our right to block, promote Czech interests. Yeah, I've been through a lot behind that door. One Prime Minister yelled at another president: we should never have taken you to the EU. And he says, "What are you yelling at me for when you got $5 billion of dividends, your investors?" Yes, that's where it's played. There is a fight for Czech interests. And you brought a minister on it, I don't know why. So Olaf here tells us that we need to end, that we should be debating unanimous voting. Yes, so I don't know if Germany will still continue with the green and gender fanaticism, if all nuclear power plants close down, there will be mandatory migration quotas and common bathrooms for 70 sexes or how many. This would be a loss of all sovereignty of the Czech Republic. And I hope, Prime Minister, and I ask you not to let this happen so that you do not succumb to your colleagues here from the TOP 09 and the Pirates. I mean, Mr. Bartoš has already walked around Europe as the next prime minister. He was in the European Parliament, he took a picture there, and he said that it was actually okay for someone else to decide about us. So I very much hope that you will still accept the Presidency, that you will not be just the B team of Polák and that it will be all right. But you're late, you're late, and your reputation's a mess now. We said we weren't going to try to call for a vote on distrust from the government because of the Presidency, but after what you did or didn't do, they did it in organized crime, and we didn't do it to help people with energy, so we had to do it. And I think that if, like, it doesn't happen today, Brusel doesn't have a problem with that. And then there's the main thing that bothers people. Do you know what's happening today, Prime Minister? It would be good if you reached out to the ERÚ or the Minister. Do you know what those power suppliers are doing now? What they're doing is saying to people, "Keep the backups, we'll hold them for you, but let's go to the spot price." Spot price! And some people believe that. Normally, it's a scam, because of course, what's the spot price today? 600? And if this happens, it'll be a total disaster for those families. Instead of CZK 10,000, hundreds of thousands will be paid. Total Armageddon! So that's what's happening. In energy, the Ministry of Industry - complete chaos in communication. Obscenity, cockyness, arrogance personified by Mr. Banker Síkela. But he's arrogant at the council, he's arrogant at the council. He just has it in him. Great is the video that we learned that if there was no gas, the German industry would not produce and produce Czech companies. I'm really gonna... I think everyone's having fun with it. Mr Síkela is the gravedigger of the Czech economy. Please call him off tonight. It's hell. Since February, it promises to address the energy situation. The only thing he introduced is the cost-effective tariff that was thrown at his head by his own captains. All this time, we've been saying that the government should forgive people and companies for renewables, you've been rejecting it all along. And now that it's too late and it won't have the desired effect, Mr. Síkela will suggest it. Well, just chaos over chaos. Just like you're about to put a stop to electricity prices now, we've been telling you that for at least six months. And I'm convinced you can't avoid it, otherwise I don't know what's going to happen in our country. There's no other way, just like with the renewables. Those ten-dollar couples of thousands of housewives of yours don't solve the problem, the housing supplement, and 14 papers. So what good is four thousand people if they may be paying tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands for energy? [[13.40 hours]] Electricity prices have been upset by a lot of countries. It was the Maďar, the Francouz, the Portugalec or the Slovák. The Portugalec and the Španěl have set prices at 40 euros per megawatt hour, the Slovák 61.20. And do you know when they did it? In Slovakia, they did so in agreement with private shareholders and the state on February 16th! February 16, 2022! And you're not really clear today, and Mr. Kupka says, well, we're gonna try Europe. Everyone must laugh there because everyone knows they're there for their citizens. I remember the solidarity when there were no vaccines, and I fought Sebastian Kurz to make vaccines according to population, and it was the Portuguese Presidency. Well, Angela executed us, Kurz, under the EPP, we didn't get vaccines. So solidarity also has limits and limits. I wonder if there's no gas, what and how the Němec will let us go. Of course, it's like a mockery. So I'm asking why you didn't start electricity in February like the Slovák. Why? The Slovák have had since January 1st, you have to say. Why 1 January 2023? Well, because there were some contracts. Do you know what the cost of production is today? That's what CEZ said, 20 to 30 euros. And coal? Somewhere 120. If you cancel your emission allowances, I understand that electricity producers now want to make tens of billions, tens! Some make more money this year than maybe in history. But you're here for the people, and you have a major firm, CEZ, and what did you do in it? Allegedly, you only agreed on nine representatives on the Supervisory Board. Pirates are cramming some psychopath in there, we hear about it, I won't say his name. [[Laughs from members of the YES.]] And then we hear everyone stuffing in there. Then you should have called an extraordinary general meeting! Taking an extraordinary dividend when the Minister of Finance keeps saying he doesn't have any money. And most importantly, you should have pulled ČEZ from the stock exchange. I know you're gonna argue with minority shareholders, I know, right. But it doesn't matter. You should have declared an emergency immediately! Make licenses to export electricity! After all, when the Rakušan attacked me, I said: If we stop delivering the core to Austria, then you will not even make Meinl coffee in Vienna, there will be no coffee - who do not want the core. And we do. A German, if he doesn't turn the propeller, where does he get the current? Well, from us. He doesn't even have the leadership. If CEPS hadn't transported electricity to Bavaria, they'd also have a problem. So you were supposed to put the stakes on the Slovák, yes, to fight for emission allowances to cancel, yes, that's what you should have done. So you didn't do anything, and now I don't understand when the Slovák did it, you're not having fun, that Vé 4. I understand that Orbán is hated now, but at least you could have called that Heger guy and asked him how they had it, or Mr. Síkela could have gone. No. So you didn't take the dividend, and instead of taking the dividend, you borrowed CEZ, or allegedly you want to borrow it, 75 billion. Why? Well, because the lip exchange system - every stock exchange - is totally crazy when he sells for 200 and the stock exchange is 600, he has to cover it in cash, and that's why everyone needs tens of billions. And why are you doing this? Pull it off the stock market, call a general meeting, pay your dividend, put it on the market, ban exports! Only for licenses! No? It's a simple management decision. CEZ has a net profit of 33.6 billion in the first half, operating profit was 59. I think he's going to have a hundred, maybe even more, and he's sitting on 150 billion undivided profits. They're drowning in money, and you're lending them money. I don't understand what you're waiting for, you've got 70 percent! So stomp your feet and against the thirty minority shareholders who, of course, are there - you never should have privatized it, dear ODS! It should never have gone into a coupon. You're still talking about how we're dependent on energy - yes, of course - and I can still get to the gas. It's outrageous how you lie about the Polish gas pipeline. So please, CEZ, action! Can you call an extraordinary pile, the Czech Republic - energy-sustaining, and do you know why the stock market is so expensive? Yes, it is right to say that it is necessary to disconnect, because the core, the cost of producing, say, 30 euros, coal 100 to 120 and gas 600 euros! And that's why there's 600 euros, because somewhere in Europe, someone's making gas from that Putin gas you wanted to fight. No? That's what you keep saying. The situation in the gas is tragic. No one really knows if the gas will or won't. The Prime Minister says that yes, two weeks after that Minister Síkela doubts it, Mr Síkela says that he will eventually reduce domestic heat due to industry. The Prime Minister is dementing it again for the next day. That's probably the famous government strategic communication. After all, there's this guy, a lobbyist from a Prague lawyer who was Sobotka's puppeteer who helped privatize OKD for nothing and stomped out 130 billion. There he is! The project that's over, and the Ministry of Industry is running you today, and the reporter, you have the structure at the Office of the Government, don't you? So I don't understand your strategic communication. Or it's for the gentleman to say - this one can, this one can't. And what's the deal with filling the bins? Yes, 80 percent in the EU or in the Czech Republic, but this will cover only 21 percent of consumption and in the Czech Republic 39. Yes, so if you're saying... You're actually telling people that we have 80 percent of the magazine, so you're actually trying to tell them that it's 80 percent of the consumption, but that's not true. That's not true! You should never have privatized Transgas as part of the contract, and tell Vondra to stop lying about Norwegian gas. I think even a small child will understand that in 1997, when the state enterprise Transgas made a contract for 20 years for Norwegian gas, when Zeman's government sold it in 2002 or when, of course, the contract left with the company, with RWE. But you'll keep saying that we failed somewhere. No, we didn't fail. You failed. You have failed since the revolution - if you hadn't broken everything up, privatized everything, I would never have founded the YES movement if you had worked for the people. So at the full capacity of the tanks that belong to RWE, and I don't know who else you're gonna be missing three fifths of your needs. And that's not my invention, it's Gas Infrastructure Europe's data. And I was talking about Mr. Síkela's pearl that if there wasn't enough gas for the household, Germany would stop part of its industry and send us gas. [[With laughter:]] This is hell, this, I don't understand how anyone can say this. This is so unbelievable. Well, yes, we had the solidarity when I begged him to call everywhere to give us an FFP3 and Trumpův's covideo cocktail, it was hard. Yes, they helped us, Vé four gave us various aids, and for free, even vaccines, we fought, that was solidarity. So if you think any state will kneel its own economy because it will help the Czech Republic, I assure you that all prime ministers and presidents of each state will fight for their own country and their own citizens. And the finances, I won't talk about it for long, this is Mrs. Schillerová. You have the government's programming statement - we want a state that doesn't live on debt. What's the reality? Of course, you're gonna keep saying to people that we're in debt. No, the debt to GDP at the end of 2021 was lower than in 2013 when you finished, although it was official, but you ended in that year. So we've got enough money, so stop lying to these people, that there's no money. We have won you a thousand billion European funds, 50 billion for health care, 15 billion for the National Cancer Fight and a thousand billion for the Modernization Fund. You've got money in there, so do something about it already. But you should also worry about drawing on European funds as they draw on them. When we started in 2014, the period before us, which Nečas still argued, didn't even draw. [[13.50 hours]] I remember in 2016, when he was deadline on drawdown, so in December we drew about 30 billion on transport infrastructure. I put a knife on Took's neck, and I said, "You're gonna open the D8, so he opened it in December 2016. It took 32 years to build it. We pushed you into React-EU health care, 20,5 billion, and how did we fight? Maláčová didn't want 3 billion for senior homes, yes, that's also necessary, but she wanted 10, 15. We went to health care. Well, I sure hope it runs out by 2023. They all got, even a little hospital like Nymburk has 150 mil. We wanted the best for Czech health care, and you walled it up. You took 14 billion and you're telling me that no one really needs it. That's really unbelievable. So, state debt, you're still going to have a deficit - 330, 270 and so on, so it's going to be 1,080 billion in four years of your government. Mrs Schillerová had a consolidation plan by 2025. So you end up on the astronomical 3 680. That's half as much as we ended in 2021. And for us, the 800 billion, everyone knew where it was going. Yes? Back in Třeboň, when the representatives of the pirát almost beat us there, they were supposed to roll up a red carpet. Who saved Czech spa? Us. We put money on the bed and for the employees, the businessmen, they all got it. I hope Mrs. Schillerová talks about it. We gave them money, they know it. And population savings have increased by 550 billion. And that's the inflation? I mean, your other mega-league thing, that we caused inflation? 5.3 % in December? I say in these squares: so, dear fellow citizens, Prime Minister Fiala and his government say that we caused inflation because here, in this store, you all haven't eaten for two weeks, there's one roll for 2.50, and now everyone's running there and someone's gonna buy it for 200 crowns. That's bullshit, isn't it? It's not like that. We gave people money, inflation was low, and you're three times higher, but I'm not saying it's your fault. I'm saying Mr. Stanjura was paying 90 billion and he's supposed to pay people back, and he's going to have 140 billion all year round, or I don't know how much. Yes, people paid for it. Even such debt, such as the Ital, I do not know how much debt they have, about 140, it returns, EUR 14.5 billion returns to people. You don't do that. Why aren't you doing this? You don't like people? I know you don't like retired people. Now Mr. Jurečka texted me that he was thanking me for my work as an old man, increased it... great. I don't know if that, I don't know how much this paper costs, but if this isn't a campaign before the municipal elections. [[He's laughing. Applause in the left side of the hall.]] When I did this brochure - and Minister Válek says that as he understands cancer, of course I don't understand it, but here are twenty renowned oncologists, and today unfortunately 75 people die of cancer in the Czech Republic and 200 get sick - so here he shouted Jurečka: This is a campaign! Campaign! [[Unintelligible.]] So Mr. Jurečka says he took care of everything. No, by law, seniors get money. If it were up to you, you wouldn't give them anything. Jureka boasts, even the 500 crowns. And who put this place through? We pushed it through with the CSSD. So the typical sketch of your government that you're either lying or selling our jobs. I'll get to that. So the debt-- it doesn't work. And we don't know where Mr. Stanjura put the money. Remember 2018, we had a deficit of only 3 billion, in 2019 29 billion. Yes. And we gave the covid to the people. They gave people. And you don't want to give people money. When the Czech Switzerland was on fire, you went there on Tuesday, and you gave those firemen a billion dollars. We gave them money. Fireman is one of the most important professions. Yes? So that's it. And then we learned that someone didn't forget to put an inflationary clause into the church restitutions, so the 167 billion we lost, and here, President Němcová, weirdly left the vote and didn't vote for one party, so it worked, the Kalouskův deal - 167 billion. Well, now? 7.5 billion, citizens, we will pay for someone having an inflationary clause. And why don't the employees have it? Why do only officials in Brussels have it? They have an inflationary clause. And for God's sake, it's our seniors. So I wonder how the money's gonna work. When you were in opposition to the House, you kept screaming how few people and companies we helped, that we should give more money and more money, and yet we came out of the pandemic as the sixth least indebted country in the EU. And, of course, the media that's so cheering for you - now it's been a big hit that we've had an acceleration in debt. Well, why? After all, my colleague Schillerová bought bonds on good terms. I did. When I was Minister of Finance, I bought bonds for a minus, so I borrowed, and I still got money. I made 12 billion in one year. Yes? So it's a lie! It's a lie that we were in debt here. No, we're the sixth least-indebted country. What were we supposed to do? Have you seen the Macron - Le Pen debate? How did she scream how much money he gave? What was it, 600 billion euros? He gave three times more to the Francouz than we gave to one Czech citizen. Three times more. Yes, and I did. And we kept that we were still the least... We have the least unemployment. So we came out great, and you're here to lecture us on public finances, about management. Well, that's ridiculous. So as the right right-wing government, you plan to tax three sectors additionally: banks - they wanted socani, so I don't know, but that's probably the post-November cartel, energy companies, refineries. Okay. You guys were hoping there wouldn't be any new taxes. We've been cutting taxes. Why did you cancel the EET that brought 13 billion a year to the register? I was in Deep, that's the core, there's a total adobe, but a great restaurant owner, and we had a great meal there. He said, "Yeah, I like EET." I like EET. How much taxes are they paying in restaurants these days, folks? 10 per cent for the draft beer, thanks to Babiš, and for the soft 10 and 10 per meal, for the food. You were 21, we inherited that. And that's why we did EET. And you're interrupting because Mr. Stanjura just doesn't want money. He doesn't want to. Why would he want to? I don't know. And then there's the Homeland. I think what's happening is incredible. Because it's not about Mr. Mlejnek. And I'm fascinated when the Home Secretary said last night that it was actually good, the Mlejnek. And it's interesting that the list The news here has access to some kind of wiretap, and Mr. Mlejnek was in some kind of business. So he was normally a corrupter. He's been at Techniserv for ten years doing business with the whole crew. And you guys told us it was great that they wrote him some paper, some honest statement, and now we know he's a corrupter. Prime Minister, please, you have the BIS under you. You've got the BIS under you, and you must have read it. Who's Mlejnek? It's impossible you wouldn't read it. I understand you don't have a government without Mr. Rakušan, he's got 34 MPs, he cheated on the pirát, he got cut off, so the pirát have 4, he's got 34, and without Stan, you don't have a government. But after all, it's scandalous! It's not normal, this. Intelligence? Yes. I read on Twitter today that the founder of TOP 09, the symbol of corruption, wrote about the head of intelligence, which was 2014 to 2020, was a renowned man and no one even knew about him. Then came Mr. Chovanec. And if Secretary Černochová was talking on TV about what was going on there, then believe me, I was the one who was screaming that how could it be that intelligence was abused, that someone allegedly stole $300 million there. Yeah, and I guess, probably, probably, but they were definitely prosecuted. So you must have known, Prime Minister, and the intelligence is completely out of control. So it's not Mr Mlejnek's problem, he's gone. And I don't think anyone believes that he did it on his own. No? So it's your mess. It's Rakušanův trouble, okay? And he's attacking today! He's gonna talk about some structures tonight! [[14.00 hours]] Of course, that anti-Babish lazy journalist who used to work in a publishing house and now he's writing all kinds of nonsense. So today, Mr. Rakušan here is going to tell us how we affect the police. So let's talk about our influence. We were the first to put in place the GIBS tender. Do you know how many have applied for the tender? It wasn't a hand like Sobotka did with the Chovanc or how Langer dictated. Twelve people signed up for GIBS. And do you know who the boss of GIBSu is? I've never seen him before in my life, he was chosen by the commission, that is, before he was chosen, of course, I saw him - that is the man who allegedly was in charge of Dalík as a prosecutor. But before the helicopter from Ostrava to Prague was supposed to have arrived, Topolánkův's mob switched it. That's probably him, supposedly. But I'm sure the press will write it if it's true or not. Like 12 people! [[With laughter.]] Well, let's go to the SACUIB. Is Madam Secretary here? It's not. Secretary Černochová isn't here. So you know who picked the head of the SAO? Mrs. Černochová sat there, Patrick Zandl for the pirát, Mr. Nováček, Mr. Šimandl set up, and that's the decision. Intelligence, there's no competition. Yes, Hamáček put it there, yes, and I think Mr. Šimandl had no problems. There was Mr. Koudelka, the head of Biska, Mr. Dzurilla, nine people volunteered. And who did they pick? Mr. Řehka. That's Babišův's product, isn't it? And the Secretary of Defense made him Chief of Staff! How come he's not from Agrofert? And why did they put everyone away, what did they do with Babiš? And what else is Koudelka doing there, Beroun and Dzurilla, and I don't know who else? It's nonsense. Stop lying about us having structures! We don't have any, you have structures. [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] That's why I'm in court! Your post-November cartel, you had me prosecuted! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] So don't let the journalist who lies and invents structures all the time. And please, Police President Švejdar was chosen on the basis of a lawsuit under the Security Corps Act, so again, legally. And please, the police president is Mr. Vondrášek. And who is Mr. Vondrášek? Well, the new police president. And what did Mr. Vondrášek do? He was Mr. Švejdar's deputy. So what? So what kind of speech is this, where, who I'm putting, where? Mrs. Schillerová worked at the Financial Administration. No one, never, never had your structures. And when we first did the government, Sobotka and Bělobrádek came and said, "We want to have deputys everywhere." We don't have a bunch of co-workers we're gonna put somewhere. You keep saying... tonight Mr. Rakušan will say, "The Babiš who has everything." It's all a dirty lie! We never put anybody anywhere, we don't have any structures - if I had any structures, I certainly wouldn't have 12. The 9th trial, he didn't! Fifteen years invented case to order a post-November cartel. So I wonder what Mr. Rakušan would say. So here's what we got, Homeland. And, of course, Stan, that's incredible. Mr. Redl just started the movement. No, we're not coming back, I'm sure colleagues will say what this corrupt band of robbers actually does. And I don't understand how the Prime Minister can even have this government movement, organized crime? I don't know anymore - since the press have it and they're writing about it, you have to read it, Prime Minister. For ten years he was manager of Techniserv, three colleagues were convicted of corruption, one of which was former ODS Member. So it's just the tip of the iceberg affair from STAN. I don't think I need to remember long enough the black funding of STAN from tax havens, millions of firepower for Mr. Polčák. Not us, everyone lobbied us. Everyone said: We must help the villages, Vrbětice, especially Vondráček - where Vondráček, from the Zlín Region - lobbied, everyone lobbied. Yes, the communities deserved it. I finally talked Schillerová into finding the money. And Mr. Polčák snuck it out! Unbelievable. He's a man, and he's still sitting in the European Parliament! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Unbelievable, unbelievable. Mr. Farský, a scholar, is getting ready for a career, these are terrible cases. And, of course, the tunneling of the Transport Company: Mr. Hlubuček is outside, the inconvenient godfather of the Rakušanův movement Redl. So, Redl, what was he doing? A $100 million tax fraud specialist. We're told he was a gray eminence, driving the whole thing. Mr. Rakušan said, fall down, so Gazdík had to go. chudák pošta Boss - somebody brought him Redl, he didn't even know who he was, and he went away! Then something happened, and Mr. Mlejnek, who was once supposedly working with Mr. Vystrčil, somewhere in Telč - that is incredible. He's more influential than the lawyer, the godfather who runs the Ministry of Industry and planted some sort of marketing-media structure that worked with Chovanec. So Mr. Redl's been seeing Mlejnek for ten years, and we're wondering how he had clearance for the secret, or how he was checked out when Redl called him plukovník. He turned the wife into a white horse - the sale of jammers, wiretaps, vocal doomed and so on. I don't know, I think the Prime Minister should really move Mr. Rakušan to another resort. He's a professional teacher, so now you have a minister who says Plaga is better than him, that's incredible, where do you get it, those ministers? [[With laughter.]] And he was manipulating something in Pilsen, some sort of review. [[They applaud the members of the YES.]] Hell, that's what he's gonna say! I'd rather not comment on the Minister of Agriculture. But I was on the breadwinner's Earth, I was looking at him - and he's silent, he's not talking at all, he's not talking at all, he's not talking on the breadwinner's Earth, he's still silent, but he says the food's gonna be cheaper. Citizens, look forward to it! I don't know. Please don't take this seriously. So I don't understand why the Prime Minister is fighting for Mr. Rakušan. And I am convinced, Prime Minister, that the STAN movement, even if it were not in the government - because Síkela, it is hell, Rakušan is hell - so you're gonna make a deal, give them some trough, for example, the supervisory board in ČEZ, maybe, I don't know, and you're gonna be okay. I don't understand that, you can't see that it's hurting you! So it's unbelievable, but for unknown reasons, you're holding... Now, the pirát, who STAN cheated on by ringing, came and said that Mlejnek was a mess. Okay, fine. So I don't know why Mr. Mlejnek resigned. Mr. Rakušan has to resign. Mr. Mlejnek maybe, I don't know, 1. 9. something was supposed to happen, or a wiretap from the List, and he went away. So, please, continue with the pensions, that's what I'm talking about. Yes, Mr. Jurečka, how he boasts, how he adds everything and so on. We were saying you should add to the seniors across the board. Yes, I met someone who had a pension of 30,000 yesterday, and I started my retirement of 19,000. And all those who are yelling that I have a small pension, that I haven't paid my dues, I warn you that I became a taxpayer in the Czech Republic in 1996, so I worked in a Slovak company for 18 years before, so as if you were calm. They've raised my pension for 3,000, and that lawyer-- that's another one-- he's going to have 5.2 percent times 30, that's $1,500, but still-- I've had it repeatedly. All I'm saying is that our movement proposed to give all pensioners 6,000 in addition to inflation one time, because those who have pensions of 10,000 or 14,000, compared to those who have 30,000, 40,000, of course, have the same cost. They have the same cost, and how do they come by it? Why? Now you should have helped them. Yes, drugs are more expensive, food is more expensive. You took away their fare discount. This is something so embarrassing, it is something so incredible - CZK 1.8 billion, 0.1 percent of the budget expenditure you have taken away from the elderly and the young. Why? Well, since Babiš wanted it, let's take it away from them. It's incredible that you're not ashamed, really. [[14.10 hours]] So what's your strategy? Your strategy is to sell our jobs. Mr. Jurečka, as he writes to me - the letter that he thankes me for my work and that he's had something - well, he's old enough. I'm sure the old man, who's 80, will discuss it. And from next year, 500 crowns are all women for every raised child. That pushed through the Yes and ČSSD movement, so I'm shocked that Mr. Jurečka is actually doing PR, and he's still consuming paper and embezzling taxpayers' money. There wasn't supposed to be your letter, I'm not curious about your letter. There was supposed to be one announcement by the Czech Social Security Administration that you're increasing my pension by 5.2 percent. And I'm telling you, you should raise everyone the same now. It's not about me. That's what you should do, isn't it? 5,000 crowns for children - farce. Plus, if you're gonna clear up your jobs, because they don't even know how to interpret the law properly, and some of them are gonna come for the dose, and on the other hand, or if they get money from the Agrofert Foundation, you're gonna take it from them. Why are you taking it away from them? Why are you taking it away from them? Let them have the money! Or someone gets more help, so you take away what you gave him before. Then it would be good if you finally did something about it. Health - like, I'm not gonna be here like... [[He's laughing.]] I think I had a speech here. You overruled us. Yes, Mr. President put the veto on it. It's unbelievable. It's incredible that the Minister says if hospitals don't have electricity, he'll resign. Well, I don't know. The minister reportedly had three meetings since December 17th, one of which... You should be in charge. I understand you don't know what that word is to drive. But every month you have... 16 faculty hospitals, 3 military hospitals. Then why didn't you arrange some kind of supply of electricity? You have CEZ! You have everything connected there. No? Well, it's incredible that if it were to happen, that would be a real scandal, and the Minister is making excuses for other ministers, so I don't know who's gonna handle it. And then there's traffic. I was very amused when the Prime Minister visited the Ministry of Transport and found that he was under construction for 240 kilometers. Yes, Prime Minister, yes, that is our work. We, when we started in 2014, there was no law on land purchase, there was no law on line construction, everything was stopped. And after doing business with your two sides, Bárta came in, 2010, and he said he wanted to, too. Well, it's all over, so we started at nothing. Remember that farmer around Hradec Králové? They've been dealing with her for 20 years, 20 years. Yes, we've moved it. We moved it! And we were planning 300 kilometers. That you'll open 25 next year? Fine. And 40? Yes, D1 is our work. But I've always talked objectively because the first two sections of the D1 reconstruction were for Stanjury. You'll never say what was behind us. You never say it, I say it. But we've done it, yes. And Havlíček did his first PPP project. So I hope... Of course, you don't talk to us about anything. You called us twice - it was always Ukraine. And if you were talking to us, maybe we could tell you our fantasies. Or I don't know... We wanted to do PPP project Hradec-Olomouc or Prague-Tábor and so on. You opened, in 2011 to 2014, you started to build 800 meters - 800 meters, not kilometers, but meters, okay? So we fought for the bypass, Frýdek-Místek, Třinec and others. And now I'm not talking about the fact that I don't know which lumen invented the highway to Vienna around Mikulov? A normal person would go from Brno to Bratislava, see Břeclav, turn right and I'm in Vienna, a few kilometers, and left I have Warsaw. Common sense! But you know why? Well, because your friends had land there! And it was still in Benesov. That's why we don't have a freeway to Camp because that's how you did it. Business, business, business! And the stations, Prime Minister... Teplice - you criticized me. Now I find out it might be, yes. And I've always wanted our government, or the government where I am, to show people something, not just talk, talk. You know it's our work, and we're keeping our fingers crossed. As long as Stanjura doesn't take your money. But there's enough money, so hopefully it won't happen. And we're gonna look at this new budget and we're gonna study how it's all really going to be. Education, science - I don't know, Mrs. Langšádlová... The other day I relieved myself that I saw her on TV last time because I thought she was missing, so we wanted to put out a nationwide search for her. [[With laughter.]] [[A round of applause from several members of the ANO benches.]] But I like her. She's pretty cool, even Mrs. Hubáčková. At least they know what they don't have and what they don't have. So science and research. Science and research. Yeah, that's where we can show what we did. I've already talked about Mr. Balaš. Too škoda Plaga was unlucky to be our minister. But when Balaš himself says he's worse than he is, come on... And the new minister came up with the idea that class wouldn't start until nine o'clock. Well, as Mr. Válek began, actually, waiting at the doctor's for six hours is normal, it was also the first slogan he started, so the minister here says that... The children may be pleased. The question is, what are the parents going to say? But I don't know. But hopefully it won't happen. So, to the resorries, I'm begging you. Environment - a complete disaster. You really didn't do well with that Turów guy. Prime Minister, you put Ms. Hubáčková completely incompetent in the ministry. He can't promote it, he doesn't speak English. It's hell. Culture, of course. I wonder what you're gonna do there? We renovated the National Museum for 3.6 billion. We fixed the State Opera. We started the Imperial Spa and the prison in Uherské Hradiště, where the Prime Minister was. What about the New Scene, Minister? Well, I wonder if you'll continue. We have Invalidovna, we have fantastic cultural monuments, but nothing's happening. It's okay. You know, your problem, Prime Minister, is that when I was Prime Minister, I always fought with all the ministers against Schillerová. We got together, and we went to Schillerová, and we said, "This is what we need, and you have to find the money for it, okay? And she found them. [[Fun in the hall.]] And we've done a lot of good things. And what about you? Well, Stanjura runs your government, and he says, "I don't have money, I don't have money, and the other ministers are sitting there afraid to say anything." Well, that's unbelievable. I beg you, help those ministers! If they want to do something for our country, then help them, and let Stanjura finally give them the money. He's drowning in money, he's got a lot of money. Don't let him lie that he doesn't. He's got enough, 2,000 billion in Europe. Censorship at the Office of the Government with Mr. Klíma - that's what I'm talking about. Digitalization - Mr. Bartoš... It's interesting that you left that Dzurilla behind. That's interesting, isn't it? [[He's laughing.]] Because it's the fake. They said, "Oh, Babiš has people there." No, Dzurilla is a clerk, and a great clerk, yes. Well, that's good, 'cause without him, you'd be done. You'd also put an ad like you put an ad on how to build apartments. An ad, come in, guys. Mr. Bartoš doesn't know how to build apartments. I don't know, how many flats do you have in the program statement that you're gonna build, 20,000 or how many? I don't remember. And there's money, local development. You've exhausted zero on local development. Zero, zero, zero, okay? No? You killed a construction law that would turn corruption and move construction. So for the new legislation, for the utterly incompetent Minister Bartoš... His only concern, of course, is for him to be there, to have that post. Yes, here I have it, a pre-election promise to build 40,000 flats a year, even a year, really. Well, that's hell. 40,000 a year? Yeah? [[14.20 hours]] Agriculture - obsession with Babiš, of course. Everything is Babiš, you have to kill, destroy, stomp. I don't know. You have the Anti-Babish program, but if Babiš isn't, I don't know what you're gonna do. I've been going to Earth for 40 years, and the minister, he's supposedly not talking anywhere. He's not talking. He was on the committee saying he didn't say anything. He didn't say anything at lunch on Earth to the breadwinner either. I don't know. You destroyed it, the agriculture, you let the land be sold to strangers. You brought in the largest concentration of strings here. And, of course, the lies about who determines food prices. Who determines food prices? Strings, after all! But your structures said Babiš. So how much do they sell a roast bakery? For the crown of 50. And how much is it? Two-fifty, three in Eagle. What's the percentage? Who's taking 280 billion out of everything you've sold abroad? Who? No? Then don't lie. Don't lie! And we can pray that some covid doesn't come to the grain, right? After the revolution, the ODS said: Everything will be delivered. Everything will be delivered! So today we import 60 percent of pork, we are no longer a potato power, Czech fruit and vegetables minimum. We're exporting milk, we're importing butter, okay? That's right, you've decimated everything. And, of course, the Prime Minister likes the Prime Minister of Poland very much, but that's okay, so I don't understand why he didn't learn from him - because the Prime Minister cares - to reduce VAT to basic foods and to stop it, not to take the chains. I'm wondering how these groceries are gonna work when the owner of Madeta on Earth announced to the provider that he wouldn't have electricity in January. I don't know how much butter it's gonna cost. But you're not, you're just against this Babiš guy. Support for biofuels, right? You canceled it. Okay, so there'll be more oil from Putin. Is that what you wanted? I don't think so. And then there's the sport. That's really unbelievable. I am glad that the Prime Minister accepts athletes, but Prime Minister, 2013 was a sports budget of 3.6 billion and I made it to 11.5 last year. We started the Sports Agency. We split money into sports transparently, not at a bar in Intercontinental like your deputy, or in an apartment like socani did. We did it transparently. And now you're coming up with the fact that there's only going to be three billion next year? And the clubs -- they won't even have money for electricity. How are the kids going to practice, hockey? We want to play sports, don't we? Here will be the European basketball championship, yes, our government has paid 3 million euros a fee. Our government has brought the world's greatest tennis players here. Yes, we supported sport, so I don't understand why you don't want to promote sport - 3 billion, that's incredible! I wanted to go with the gas, Prime Minister. I really don't - I don't know who's writing you those speeches. You started at the press conference, first your sentence: Slovakia launched a pipeline from Poland last week, got rid of unilateral dependence on Russian gas. They started construction four years ago, at a time when our government decided that we simply did not need such a pipeline. And that's a lie, Prime Minister. Why do you lie if it's not true? This is what the articles are for: The Stork pipeline seems to be ending. The Polák backed out of action. They backed out, they didn't want it. There was money. Sobotka's been dealing with the Prime Minister, okay? But do you know the difference between the Czech Republic and Slovakia? That in the Czech Republic, because of your party, because of the ODS, ČSSD, you sold everything within the coupon and privatisation. Refineries are Polish, and who had gas? RWE NET4GAS, big pipes. It's a global company. And Innogy? Who owns Innoga? Hungarian company, Hungarian state. So you're accusing us of doing something, but we didn't privatize anything. So who here was interested in not having gas pipeline connections in the Czech Republic? Here you go, Prime Minister, the map. [[He's pointing.]] This is the pipeline that the Slovák opened, and this is the pipeline that leads from Ukraine to the Czech Republic. Half of the pipeline is owned by the Slovak government and half is represented by the most corrupt prime minister in the history of this country, Topolánek - the biggest lobbyist for Russian gas. And logically Topolánek did not want anything to flow out of Poland. He didn't want a BAC connection to Austria. Why? Because they'd lose the fees, so that's the truth. Please don't tell me we did something wrong here. Here it's black and white and NET4GAS is a private company. Private company! So you've privatized everything, here's only CEZ, where 30 percent of the shareholders have different interests than the state, and you're still talking about us making some kind of addiction. We didn't do any, you did the addiction, you sold everything abroad, the refinery, yes, they're gone, the pumps, everything's gone, 280 billion! Water mostly French, cement plants French, everything. That's the result of the coupon that destroyed everything, and then the socani came and they sold it. Yeah, well, I guess the Transgas award seemed good at the time, but today, of course, we know that it was wrong and that the state was supposed to... So it's not true that we didn't want it. We wanted it, the Polák backed out. They had the European Commission's money for it, and it was against it. And it's clear here that they made this cable. So I'd really like you not to tell the truth, Prime Minister, because it really isn't, and it can be documented and documented. So I could read here for an hour while you're fulfilling the government's programming statement. You know, for me, it was like all the ministers were tasked with presenting some kind of performance, so I don't know when you're gonna do it, but you've been there long enough to do it. So, in conclusion, honourable Members, we can summarize this. We have a government that is clueless and incompetent as its weak prime minister, a government based on organized crime, a government that keeps lying to people, a government that doesn't keep its promises, a government that states and the economy crumbles under its hands, a government that mocks people, a government that solves everything but the problems of its own country and its own citizens, a government whose sole concern is to rule, even if it were to ruin its own country. It is good that our citizens today will be able to observe Prime Minister Fiala and Rakušan and other five-calice politicians who, as self-appointed democrats, like to talk about values, political culture, Václav Havel, will raise their hands for their government built on organized crime, corruption, incompetence and hypocrisy. Even if you hold the vote today, you will only delay your end by a few months. In the eyes of people, you have already lost any legitimacy and moral right to rule. You're the government that declared war on its own citizens, which is why you deserve one thing, and that's to end! For this reason, today the YES movement will vote in favour of distrusting the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Petr Fiala will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. We have heard here the speech by the President of the opposition movement, which has proposed to vote on our government's trust. First of all, I would like to appreciate that the speech was presented here in the Chamber of Deputies, not somewhere in the square, and that its author arrived at work today. Thank you for that, Mr President, Mr Member. We have a chance to discuss this here together. [[Let's hear it for the five-wheelers of the government.]] [[14.30 hours]] By the way, when you mentioned the debate about state insured people and complained that we overvoted you, I'm sure your vote was missing in the vote, just like you were missing here last night when we argued with your colleagues, and you couldn't even hear our arguments and arguments of Minister Válek. That's why you're just saying things that aren't true. I will not comment on everything that President Andrej Babiš here has said, but I would just like to mention a few related facts. The main reason for this meeting - and this must be said - is that we have no factual reasons for this before the elections. And the other reason for the meeting is that Andrej Babiš wants to talk himself out of it or he wants to cover up his problems, his personal problems that he has. And when you talk here, Mr President, about us calling on you, we have arranged criminal prosecutions and such in the Czech Republic, which you said here in your speech, of course, I don't know if your friend Emmanuel Macron has provoked an investigation into money laundering in France, and you're going to throw it to him. That's just not true, it just shows how you live in a constructed world of lies and nonsense. I'm sorry you resorted to those personal things I didn't actually expect from you. Now that you're reminding me of your vacation, I'm happy to compare it with you, so I think you'll remember that you went to Greece for a vacation when you asked Czech citizens to stay at home in 2020. I remembered that. I am embarrassed for you that I must remind you that you have resorted to this form of political debate. But please, if you want, we'll have fun at this level. But I will be more concerned with what our government has done, what we have achieved, and how we have managed to correct many things that your government has failed to do, with helplessness, ignorance, incompetence, or because it defended someone's personal interests. The reasons why we are here today, and which are presented here, are merely proxy. They certainly cannot be - and I listened carefully to your speech, none of what you said was most of it nonsense, and it is not true - cannot be a justification for why the opposition broke the promise not to call for a vote on government confidence during the Presidency of the European Union. However, it turns out that our country, the Czech Republic - and your speech was a good example of this, and who among the citizens was looking at it, will certainly judge it himself - shows, unfortunately, that our country has no constructive opposition. It does not have the opposition that concerns Czech citizens who, in difficult times, want to pull the government together, help solve the problems that are there, forget what divides us, and support what is common and beneficial to the citizens of this country. This does not interest you at all, and even today's meeting and your speech is proof that you are looking at a disruption, a grasp of power at all costs, that you do not look at what is happening around, what problems the citizens are facing, what problems Europe is facing, that, regardless of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the West and its economic and political consequences for the whole of Europe, you are launching this vote on distrust here. Someone might think you could use the whole situation and enjoy it. I still hope that this is not the case, because this is a big deal and it is a good future not only for our country but also for Europe. And I'm starting to wonder if you really care about the same thing, even after I've heard your words. And before I get to the matter, let me make one more remark to your address, Mr President. For a long time, I thought that those things that you failed to negotiate in Europe or that you agreed against the people of this country, you did because of your interests, because you were following your personal gain. But I've been starting to think lately, listening to you, that you did it unconsciously, that you didn't know what was going on in the European Union, where it was decided how it was decided. That when you agreed to Green Deal, which you did, you didn't really know what you were doing and what impact it would have on Czech citizens. That's very sad... [[Let's hear it for the SPOLU movement.]] This is very sad news and sad business card, but your speech - and I really call on everyone, it is hard and hard to confess, but if you read or look at it again, you will see that Andrej Babiš does not really understand European politics at all. But enough with the thought, enough with the initial definition here, I'm not going to get into it anymore, let's get to the facts. This government has had less than nine months of hard work under very difficult conditions. Part of the difficult conditions is given by the international situation, but we have simply inherited some of the things from our predecessors. And I would like to dedicate the main part of my speech to recapitulating what we've managed to do over the past nine months, what we've managed to fix, what we've managed to solve, what we're facing, and how we're dealing with it. Please, it won't be a complex balance sheet, there's still time. No government after nine months, especially in such critical conditions, can make any comprehensive balance, but we can definitely remember some things here. Budget. Our government inherited the draft budget with a huge deficit. The previous government managed, even after the GDP growth recovery in 2021, with a huge deficit of CZK 419.7 billion, and for 2002 it proposed a deficit of almost CZK 377 billion, which was a higher deficit, which was even higher than the deficit proposed in the cod year 2020, at that time the deficit was CZK 367.4 billion. These are the proposals and results of your government, that's the debt. We knew we couldn't keep doing this. This is the source of inflation, it is the source of expensive, these are the things that need to be fought, so immediately after the start of our government, we redesigned the state budget so that it would be anti-inflationary, so that it would be more economical, so that it would not dramatically indebt the Czech Republic. If we did not correct such adverse developments, the government debt would practically double over the next few years and within two years we would encounter a debt brake. Here you can question all international comparisons, but the numbers and data are very clear. Your debt is record-breaking, from CZK 1.6 trillion at the end of 2019 the government debt rose to CZK 2.5 trillion at the end of 2021. In those years 2020 and 2021, the Czech Republic has been indebted at a record rate that is unprecedented in our modern history and which is actually seen and observed and evaluated by independent economists in our country and abroad. And it's not true that those things went to covido help. Yes, we said, is there a need to help those who are actually affected by government bans at the time of the covid, let's help them, but where did the huge deficits go? The cost of helping the state to combat covid-19 was only less than half of that debt. These are the figures of independent institutions, namely CZK 351 billion for 2020 and 2021. So I'll turn your question, Mr. Babiš, where's the money? Where did you put them? What did they go into? Why did you guys owe us so much? Why were you spinning inflation? And why did you make a price that was already the subject of election discussions? And I'll get back to that, of course. Yes, we had to adjust the budget over the course of the year. Because of the mentioned Russian military invasion of Ukraine, due to the rise in food prices, the rise in fuel prices, we had to intervene in a relatively short time. We therefore updated the state budget for this year and increased the deficit by 50 billion - although many predicted that it would be much more - to a total of 330 billion. And yet - we are not happy about this, but we had to do this because of the factors that have occurred here in the international environment and which have a direct impact on the Czech Republic, we had to do this to help citizens - but even so, the deficit is still about 50 billion lower than your government proposed. Those are the facts, those are the numbers, and that also shows how you managed. [[14.40 hours]] And the important thing is that these increased expenditures of the state budget are not, as you like to claim, something that cannot be traced, an increase in the deficit has a clear and specific purpose and a goal in this situation and goes to help people. We're giving this money to people to deal with the current problems. The current crisis has hit everyone, but most clearly it affects those who are at risk, who need a helping hand, and who are getting a helping hand from our government. Our help is mostly targeted and directed at those who really need it. That's why we're not gonna get what happened to you, that you're in debt to a record country, you're increasing inflation, you're increasing our debt, and yet the money didn't get to help people specifically, as it turns out. But not only are we helping people and trying to make it cost-effective, we also froze the salaries of officials in the first version of the budget, reduced the operating costs of the state as promised in our programming statement, and yet we have not forgotten the salaries of paramedics and teachers and received a raise. Teachers' salaries have increased since January this year, the salary base has increased by 2 percent, social workers' salary rates in social services have increased by 700 crowns since January 2020, non-medical health workers' salary rates have increased by 700 crowns for the second to seventh grade, for the eighth to fifteenth grade thereafter by 6 percent, doctor's salary rates, dentists' salaries have increased by 6 percent. So, on the one hand, we have frozen the salaries of the officials, on the other hand, we have added to the professions that either needed it, or deserved it precisely because they really fought, that they really fought against the covid and increased demands were placed on them. Speaking of covid, I would also like to remind you that our government had to deal with another wave of coronavirus crisis at the beginning. And again, let's remember the numbers, the dates, the facts. At the beginning of January 2022, a new wave of covid reached over 370,000 cases of disease. The December wave in 2021 - just to have a comparison - had a peak of 245 000 cases, for comparison - the previous waves from autumn 2020 to spring 2021 had approximately 100 to 160,000 diseases at maximum. So we were facing a huge covid wave. And look at the results and look at the results of your government. Now, I'm not going back to the victims, and in addition to all the tragic things that accompanied your management, the failure to cope with the covid wave, but we managed to manage the strain so that we didn't close anything, we didn't close the schools, we didn't close the economy, we used the methods that experts advised us, we didn't interfere with them like you, we tested them, we prepared in time, and we managed the covid wave well. Yes, it was necessary to address the compensation for entrepreneurs, to restore people's trust in the health system, in vaccination, to ensure, as I said, effective testing, and it all helped. In contrast to the previous government, we have managed all of this precisely because we have made professional, competent decisions. Minister Válek has created a huge advisory team of real experts, we have not decided chaoticly, we have not decided according to public opinion polls, and because we have approached the disease rationally, without trying to impose political points, we have done so to our society. And here you can compare your results and our results again and we can compare them to the facts as I do. You pulled out our programming statement here and started reading what we didn't do in nine months. All I'm saying is that we have a programming statement for four years, and we have thought through it, and we have thought about what steps we are going to take at the stage, but one thing that was important is that our voters, citizens, entrepreneurs have been extremely harassing and pissing and which was useless, we have managed to do this quickly and we have fulfilled this promise, so we have canceled the electronic record of sales. This is a measure that we have inherited from you, which almost no one wanted, was administratively and financially demanding, traffic and updates - just to remind you of some numbers that you say you like, but you don't give them much, and at least not the right ones - the operation and updating of cashiers cost about CZK 1.5 billion each year. If you add the total cost on the state side for about half a billion crowns a year and virtually no return, it is clear that it was just an annoying thing that made no sense at all and there was no reason for EET to continue, in the end you yourself stopped EET with the justification that it bothered businessmen at the time of the covid, so we did what we promised, and I am glad that our government did it, our government coalitions and we canceled the EET. I can still get to the other promises, but I should not miss one factor that has greatly influenced our governance, which has a major impact on what is happening today in the Czech Republic, what is happening in Europe, has an impact on our everyday life, and this is the Russian invasion of Ukraine from February this year. Among other things, this Russian aggression has led to millions of people moving, and our country has faced a huge migration wave. And I can say - and it was a big challenge, it was the biggest migration wave that Europe has seen since World War II - and I have to say that thanks to work on all fronts, not only in government, but in regions, in municipalities, in NGOs, and above all to the huge solidarity of citizens, which is admired literally by the whole world and which continues to last, we have managed. How huge the wave was, that's what numbers best show. According to official statistics of the Ministry of Interior, 414 000 refugees from Ukraine received temporary protection on 17 August and are currently estimated to be some 281 000 refugees from Ukraine in the Czech Republic. And I dare say, and we know this from everyday experience, that nothing significant has changed in the running of the state and that citizens do not feel negatively about their lives. Why not? In addition, because we have done so well the system and so effectively that in the middle of August 105 000 citizens of Ukraine with temporary protection who fled from war events, 105 000 citizens of Ukraine who fled from war events are working in the Czech Republic today, and that means that they are self-sufficient, and that also means that they are taking funds into our social and health system. And not just that. It's not just that. And that is the clear success of the way we approached the refugee wave, but not only that, the influx of these workers helped our labour market. You must know that employers have been complaining for several years, even desperate for lack of employees, and therefore the Czech labour market absorbed these refugees before the war so quickly and in such a great way. Again, the resolution of the refugee crisis is undoubtedly the success of our government, it was nothing of course. These are not my words that evaluate it, look at the evaluation of foreign experts and politicians from other countries. [[14.50 hours]] But let's look at the numbers again. The Czech Republic is the third most frequent target of Ukrajinec fleeing the country, while it is a country with the largest number of Ukrainian refugees per 100 000 inhabitants. Poland recorded 1.19 million people with temporary protection on 9 July, Germany 670,000, Italy 132 000, Spain 132 000, Slovakia less than 80,000. The 100,000 inhabitants of the Czech Republic were 3 646 incoming according to the calculations of the Ministry of Labour, which means that in this conversion, the most people from all the countries of the European Union came to us. And yet we did it, yet we have a majority or a large part of the adult population on our market worker. And because of that, we managed to avoid social shocks and all the problems you were haunting, because you tried to use the case to build a Czech society, or to say that the Czech government is only helping Ukrajinec, does not care about Czech citizens, and you tried to confront Czech citizens against Ukrajinec. You failed, and the refugee crisis is among the results of the government, which we can say after nine months are successful and that Czech companies benefit. But it's not just about helping war refugees in our territory. We also have to worry about solving the problem at the point of its origin, which you are questioning. And there is no other way than to support Ukraine, support Ukraine in its fight, and support Ukraine in its fight against Russia's aggressor and military. Here I would like to remind you of our foresight. We decided on the first shipment of war or military equipment before the beginning of the war, in January, it was artillery bullets. Subsequently, we have implemented a number of supplies of humanitarian aid, as well as military equipment. The military assistance that we sent to Ukraine is about CZK 3.7 billion, but - and this is important - we will get the money back in the framework of the European Union programme. And this is also something that needs to be told to Czech citizens, because you are passing this away in your purposeful argument. Yes, we help, we help very hard, we help because we understand what is happening abroad. We know that Russia's aggression threatens us too, that in the interests of our independence, freedom and security it is for Ukraine to win, and that we must also help. We help, we don't care about other circumstances, and yet we get this money back. And the fact that we are doing this, that we are sending our military technology, and yet we are able to negotiate support and assistance from other countries, such as what we have negotiated with Germany, Leopard tanks, or what we are negotiating with the United States in the field of helicopters and so on, that also allows us to modernize our army in the long term. And that is exactly where your government, President Babiš, has been running, unable to move forward, and has not been prepared to take the necessary steps to improve our defence and ensure our citizens' safety. We are doing this, I'm sure Minister Černochová will discuss this in more detail, but our government has taken the necessary steps to modernize the air force - buy American fighters F-35, we will secure infantry vehicles with the help of Sweden, we have received tanks in exchange or gift from Germany and we will buy other German modern tanks, we have concluded a contract for the purchase of 200 Tatra cars to restore the fleet. And this is just a few examples of what our government has done in a very short time, and who you understand, so you know that this is not at all easy to prepare, nor to make these decisions, that there are a lot of security, technical and other factors that need to be taken into account, but all of this has been done by our government in that short time. This corrects what you couldn't do or what you just passed away or what you didn't think was important. When I was talking about the budget, when I was talking about how we cared about defense, what we did, how we handled the refugee wave, how we did, and that's what I'm gonna get to, all of it, all of the savings we're looking for in the state budget, and we don't want to indebt the country, how we were able to help Czech citizens. I have already talked about some things, so I would like to add that we have also managed to maintain investment, and even strengthen investment, to strengthen the amount of money that goes into investment, because we believe that this is the way to maintain the competitiveness of the Czech Republic in the future, to secure jobs in the future, and that this is something that our government has and must do. And you know that we blamed you for giving little money to invest, that you didn't invest enough. It was true, too. Our investments are even higher in this critical and difficult time than they were in your government, and we believe that this is the right way. You yourself mentioned, Mr. Chairman Babish, some of the transport structures. I will mention them, too, because it is important for our citizens, because our government is moving forward quickly because we have provided funds for this and because our people, headed by Martin Kupka, are really working hard to do so. On the roads of the first class are built together 88.1 kilometers and important bypasses of the villages of Církvice, Mělník, Karviná, Havlíčkův Brod, this year we will open 25 kilometers of new motorways, another 40 kilometers we will finish next year. Yes, I've never kept a secret about continuity. I'm sorry that we didn't have more projects prepared from your government, that's all we're gonna do, and that's all we're gonna do, and more importantly, we haven't allocated enough funds. But that's what we do, and despite rising prices and all the problems we face, we manage to continue these constructions and we manage to plan new ones. You mentioned here - I can't engage in discussions about all those things that are your mistake or not at all consistent with reality. You mentioned some kind of corruption in the planning of the highway from Brno to Vienna, and that you would go somewhere across Břeclav. Well, I live in Brno, I drive to Vienna, and I'd drive across Mikulov, and I'd like it if there was a freeway. But what I'm asking is, after eight years of being in government, why hasn't that highway moved at all? There is nothing, not even Břeclav, not even through Mikulov, nothing at all, while our Austrian friends built the highway to the border, and now our government will move it to at least our children on the highway from Brno - it won't take so long, in our government it won't take so long - but to get from Brno to Vienna on the highway. [[applause from Members of the ODS]] There. But the construction is now nearly 240 kilometers of highways and first-class roads, and I believe that we will really move a number of them soon. I would like to touch on one important thing, and this is our help to citizens in crisis. I was already talking about where we were going to raise our salaries, that we had it because we were saving for the operation of the state, as we promised, which groups of employees increased their wages, but I want to talk about those who are getting more expensive, thanks to rising food prices, energy into existential problems, and I want to remind you what our government has done to help these citizens with targeted aid. The fact that they are facing a price increase, and that they have to deal with higher prices not only of energy, but also of a number of products, is true. But it's not true what you said, and as an agricultural man, you should know that, and I'm surprised that you don't know that food prices are clearly rising in our government. That's just not true. And either you don't know because you don't care about how people live and what they buy at the store, or you're just knowingly lying. Let me give you two examples. According to the Czech Statistical Office - no figures I invent - more than 55 crowns for you in October 2018, now in July 54 crowns. Potatoes, June 2019 - 27 kroner, July 2022 - less than 16 kroner. Numbers of the Czech Statistical Office. So even in this, you're not able to tell the truth or see reality as it is. But that's just to the edge. [[15.00 hours]] I am not at all questioning that our citizens are getting into trouble, partly because of the inflation that you have been spinning, and, of course, to a large extent because of the energy prices that they also have - or above all - international reasons, and I do not question that in any way. The government won't let, our government won't let these people down. We responded in time, we reacted quickly, and we reacted almost the fastest in Europe in terms of some international comparison. Therefore, our assistance is also assessed as the fourth highest in the whole of the European Union, regardless of how rich those states are or what economic structure they have. Let me just remind you that the government has allocated a total of CZK 177 billion to help people within the umbrella against the precious for the years 2022 to 2023; indeed, every citizen can and has the opportunity to use at least one of the measures of the umbrella against the precious and can convince himself of the wide offer of the umbrella against the precious, these government measures, on websites bearing the same name, i.e. the umbrella against the precious. As I have already recalled, according to independent assessments by several international organisations, we are fourth in scope and effectiveness to help citizens between European states, and I think that is something that needs to be recalled. We are helping targetedly, helping especially the most vulnerable groups of people who cannot help themselves. These are seniors, families with children, singles, singles, disability. They can all draw and take advantage of the ancillary measures of our government. Yes, I admit, with the help of government companies it is more complicated, it is much more difficult to legislatively and otherwise and it is also much more expensive, but here too we have found ways to support domestic producers. Now, I want to remind some of these measures to give real information, not the fantasy that people, if ever listened to, listened to a moment ago. This year's pensions have been increased, increased three times in total, in January, June and now in September, by an average of CZK 2,500. This does not apply only to old-age pensions, but it concerns all those who receive some form of pension. By the end of 2022, the average pension should exceed CZK 18,000 per month, while last year it amounted to just over CZK 15,000. Another good news for our seniors is that from January next year there should be an average increase in old-age pensions by an additional CZK 850, and from January the old-age pensions will be increased by the so-called CZK 500 per month for each child raised. We're not just raising pensions. We have already increased the life and existential minimum twice, from which the income limit, from which the claim for additional benefits arises, such as the benefit of assistance in material distress, childbirth, child allowance, foster care allowance and so on. Since April 2022 there has been a 10% increase, from July there has been an increase of 8,8%. And what does that mean? What do these numbers mean? These numbers have a simple, unambiguous and only possible interpretation. These figures mean that it will reach a much wider range of people to support, and that is precisely what is needed at this difficult time. We responded to the fact that many households are entitled to a housing allowance but do not use it or receive it with a delay because the application system was extremely complicated and was set up in a very difficult way. You mentioned it here, Mr. Chairman, but I'm asking who the system was set up for? Who didn't do anything to him? So why hasn't he changed and simplified the housing application system? Why didn't you do it in eight years in the government, four years since you were Prime Minister? Why did we have to do this? And we did it for just a few months. Yes, today the contribution is much simpler, the demand for it is less bureaucratic, it will reach a lot more households and this is confirmed by the figures, because, for example, 16,000 more benefits were paid in July 2021 compared to July 2021. So we simplified the system, removed unnecessary bureaucracy, expanded the number of people who could reach it, and did what you couldn't do in years. And we are trying to show citizens who didn't know that because they never needed social benefits, never asked for anything, so we are trying to show them that they are entitled to this benefit, that the state is giving them a helping hand here, that we are experiencing an extremely difficult period, that we are experiencing an unprecedented crisis, and that is why even those who have never been dependent on helping the state should, when they get into trouble, ask for this contribution or any other social benefit. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] They have a legal right to do so, and we think it is right for them to know about it and for them to receive such help. And now we are discussing a further increase in the standardizations, which even more in the housing allowance will reflect what is happening to rent prices, energy prices, and it will be even more appropriate for those who really need help. Of course, we realize that inflation is affecting all citizens. Trouble today is not only experienced by those who may be at the edge of some existential problem in the long run, but also by a number of middle - class people today. And the most affected are families - singles, singles, singles, just those who have children. That is why we have prepared targeted assistance in the form of a package of family assistance and a one-off allowance for each child under 18 years of age of CZK 5 000. He has already asked for it or automatically received it - there are two categories - more than 830 000 children, 830 000 children! We also increased the maximum amount of parental allowance from CZK 10,000 to CZK 13,000, supported reduced and flexible contributions. It hasn't been done for years either. Entrepreneurs called for it, you didn't move on. We have supported reduced and flexible contributions in the form of a 5% discount on social security for some employees. More support will also be given to children's groups, which is actually a solution to help with the lack of kindergarten, kindergarten schools in some places. Up to CZK 7.1 billion will go to this support. When I talk about those who need help, about our fellow citizens who can't help themselves, of course, we must not forget or forget even disabled and disadvantaged citizens. Yesterday, we proposed to increase aid to these people and extend the conditions for the recognition of further benefits of state social support. We send to Parliament an amendment to the law of granting benefits to disabled persons and several related laws, which, among other things, proposes an increase in the mobility allowance from CZK 450 to CZK 900 per month. Here we quickly and correctly respond to the difficult situation of handicapped people, who simply do not themselves have the opportunity to face increased demands and spending at the moment. [[15.10 hours]] You, President Babiš, have also mentioned fuel prices in your speech, and I would also briefly touch on this issue, because this also shows how our government in this critical situation and in the short term that we are in power has proved to be critical in the fuel market and to respond to what is happening in the world markets, and that this response to our government has been successful. In the spring, fuel prices climbed over the limit of CZK 50 per litre, and we took effective and concrete steps for both entrepreneurs and everyone else. We canceled the road tax for vehicles up to 12 tonnes, we canceled the road tax advances for vehicles over 12 tonnes, we postponed VAT payments until the end of October 2022 for road transport entrepreneurs. But the fuel prices themselves have been reduced by a total of 3 to 3.5 crowns due to the abolition of a senseless obligation to mix a biofold into fuel - why was such an obligation here and who benefited from it? And also because we reduced the excise duty on diesel and petrol by 1.5 crowns per litre from 1 June to 30 September. Moreover, we began to monitor the development of fuel price margins by the Ministry of Finance, and thanks to this package of measures and, of course, the decline in oil prices on world markets has led to a decline in fuel prices. They didn't get up to 70 kroner, as the opposition was haunted here, as we listened to it here. None of this happened, the fact that our government reacted quickly led to the fact that we somehow managed to cope with this situation. But I'm a little surprised that President Babiš here is even talking about fuel and that he blames our government for something, I'm really surprised. Now I will remind you, not only the Members of Parliament and the Members, but also the citizens, three numbers - there will be more, but the three are essential. In January 2021 natural 95 cost 27.9 Czech crowns, government of Andrej Babiš. In October 2021 there was a natural 37 crowns, the government of Andrej Babiš. Last week it cost 41 crowns, the reign of Petr Fiala. So let's look at the increase for Andrej Babiš - only in the period I mentioned here, 10 crowns, for us in the global crisis and fuel problems of 4 crowns. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality, 10 crowns have increased fuel or petrol natural for Andrej Babiš, 4 crowns in the world fuel crisis under the reign of Petr Fiala. This is reality, and this must also be heard and seen by citizens! [[Let's hear it for the coalition.]] And now to the point that is extremely serious and which has threatened a really extreme crisis for the Czech Republic. In the spring of the Czech Republic, there was really a risk that we would be gas-free in the winter, gas shortages, gas shortages, and the consequences of gas shortages, both citizens and companies, because past governments allowed our country's full dependence on Russian gas. And once again, we can look at numbers and compare how many countries in Europe have such an extreme dependence on Russian gas as the Czech Republic. You will hardly find any such, over 97 percent we depend on Russian gas and domestic reservoirs we had filled only for a very small part, i.e. full dependence on Russia and virtually no prevention, virtually no concern for the future and what could be lost. When we came to the government, we immediately took steps to ensure greater energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic, security - energy security of the Czech Republic, and to ensure sufficient energy for citizens and companies. We didn't just focus on gas, we declared a tender for Dukovan's completion without the participation of Russian and Chinese companies. You guys were just talking about it, I was involved in those opposition talks sometimes, when you invited us, and now there was always consideration - why can't the Číňan be there, why can't the Rus, it was still moving, you couldn't move it at all, or you didn't want it to be without the Rus and the Číňan. We've declared the tender, and not just that. In the gas we secured the LNG terminal quickly - fast, I immediately agreed, and the Minister and other people agreed on a diplomatic, administrative and political level with the Netherlands, and we have capacity in the LNG terminal in the Netherlands, which will ensure a third of the Czech Republic's annual gas consumption. We're going to the Netherlands to open it next week. We responded so quickly, and so quickly we fixed what you couldn't handle for eight years. And that, of course, is not enough, we have also amended the energy law, which forced distributors and gas reservoir owners to fill them faster, so there was almost nothing in the storage bins, now we have 85 percent, which is the most, the biggest fulfillment of the entire observed history this time of year. And you said right here, the magazines - I agree with that - which we have in the Czech Republic is not enough to cover annual gas consumption. Yes, it's not enough, which is why we're renewing the debates you haven't had, canceled, whatever, now let's not argue about the words, about the Stork pipeline, which is why we did, so we bought capacity, competed and bought capacity in the LGN terminal in the Netherlands. That is why we are discussing with Germany that we should also have capacity for the Czech Republic in their newly built LNG terminals, for example in negotiations with Olaf Scholz, whom you were so mocked by, and you could not negotiate anything for the Czech Republic in Germany or anywhere else, because they did not take you seriously, and they still had suspicions, doubts about your business and your interests. [[Let's hear it for the coalition.]] So we've done all this in a very short time, these are concrete results, everyone can see that, and most importantly, citizens will see that they don't have to worry about having gas shortages in the next winter season. That's what we've secured. And while we are negotiating, it was us, it was our government that contributed to our country's energy self-sufficiency at European level, when we first participated in the European Commission's proposal, the so-called taxonomy, that the core and gas, the core as a usable net resource, so that we can build nuclear power plants, could continue to finance them, and it was us who managed to negotiate and convince MEPs who did not agree to support taxonomy in its original form. Yes, it was me who acted in the European Parliament, it was other members of the government, it was you x-time ridiculed and the aforementioned Alexandr Vondra as an influential MEP and others and others who, instead of defending their personal and economic interests and instead of interpreting to the public what they are doing in Europe, did nothing but achieve concrete results - concrete results for the Czech Republic. Taxonomy is the success of Czech diplomacy, Czech politics, Czech MEPs, so we have to see it, and thanks to this we can develop nuclear energy. This is a fact that has pushed through and reached our government, our government coalition, and we have done so for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And we did it in a short time, we repaired the strange reputation of the Czech Republic, which it had in Europe thanks to your work and your activities. Today, we are able to achieve and enforce the interests of the Czech Republic in Europe, it is reflected in taxonomy, and it is reflected in other things that I will talk about in a few moments. So if you're here to blame us for the new European policy arrangement, then the results speak for us. Our European policy is effective and serves the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, it is simply impossible to say about your European policy! [[Long-term applause.]] [[15.20 hours]] In addition to sufficient gas, we have also ensured a reduction in the impact of energy prices on households thanks to the cost-effective tariff and the reduction in the fee for renewable energy sources. If it was so bad, the fee, then why didn't you do something about it? You didn't do anything about it, we did something about it, and it helps citizens, and it helps companies. Thanks to this assistance together, citizens will save on average CZK 15 000 for energy and of which CZK 4 000 on average this year. And what's important: this will all happen automatically. Citizens and companies need not ask for anything, it will happen automatically and every household will feel savings. And as I said, the remission of the renewables fee will affect companies too, it will affect them positively, and in addition to the more energy-intensive ones, our government has allocated CZK 800 million for 2021 to compensate indirect costs and to help those companies that have energy-intensive operations, we can and will continue. Within the European Union, we have also negotiated 30% of emission allowances free of charge in June - and this is what you have not followed or have not been able to understand completely - and we have negotiated the principle of automatic halting the increase in emission allowances prices once they start reaching extreme levels again. This has been negotiated, these are concrete results, and the 30% of emission allowances free of charge will help to reduce heat for more than 1.5 million households in our country. This is the result of the agreement that was made in June and July in the framework of negotiations in the Council of the European Union, and that is the result that you have never achieved. Yes, I would like an even bigger change with emission allowances, but we have achieved at least something, at least some compromise, some positive result, and we have negotiated a specific exception for the Czech Republic and specific assistance to our heat plants. Again, that's the result. What did you come for the Czech Republic with? Never with anything. And here we have one thing after another, which serves the citizens of the Czech Republic, we are reducing energy and it is beneficial for us. And that is the result of our European policy. By the way, countries have already been mentioned here, which have affected energy prices. I would not continue to do so, President Babiš, because it merely shows your misunderstanding to the energy market and what is happening in Europe. Do you really want to give us an example of France and its way of putting energy prices on the table? Do you really want to say to our entrepreneurs that if we put a price on energy for households, as France did, which, by the way, is facing the lawsuit of its state society, that entrepreneurs will have the most expensive energy in Europe, how do French entrepreneurs today face it? Is that the recipe? Or do you want to tell the Czech citizens that we have to go the way of Spain and Portugal, which represent an energy island in Europe - and everyone who only knows a little bit about energy - is an energy island and their path is not easily mimicable to any country that moves on the open market. Or should we close our electricity market, close ourselves here because we have a surplus electricity? And what if other countries do? What are we going to do with oil that we lack or with gas where we are dependent on other countries? These are populist recipes that don't match reality at all. If we applied them, we would only harm Czech citizens. This is not the way our government will go. We are going the way of real sensible solutions that will make the price of electricity cheaper and help our citizens and businesses. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] We're working on other things, I don't have time - or I do have time, but I don't want to be here for another hour and I'm sure I'll have some space after a year, two by two, for some sort of interclusive activity of our government, but since you've already created this space here as an opposition, then a few more words on some other things. We are also working on something that our state needs, what entrepreneurs are also calling for, what our citizens need, and that is finally moving forward with digitalization, creating a clear, transparent, modern environment here in different areas. An example of one that is absolutely up to date is the construction environment, i.e. the conditions for builders and designers. Yes, even here, digitalization is a fundamental, significant change that will speed up all these processes and help start the development of the construction industry, which we need. We want to take a big step in digitizing the state administration, we're working on it. We have done a great deal of work over the past few months, and in practice it will mean that citizens will not have to provide the authorities with data that the state has already received from them. Instead, we will facilitate all contact with the authorities, they will not have to carry with them x documents and other things. All this could and should have been in the Czech Republic, there is nothing. We consider digitalisation to be very important and want to move forward quickly. I would like to touch on one more thing, which you have also mentioned here, which is important and which we use for the benefit of the Czech Republic in the interests of its citizens and in the interests of its companies, and this is the Presidency in the European Union. I do not want to evaluate here because it is still a few difficult months ahead of us, but we have certainly started the Presidency successfully. This is demonstrated by reactions not only from the Czech environment, but also from foreign colleagues and from foreign media. This is why we could also, because we have a better reputation in Europe and that we have been taken seriously, so apart from the things that I mentioned here - taxonomy, emission allowances for Czech heating and other and other advantages for the Czech Republic - so we were able to negotiate, without much screaming, an exemption from the European embargo on Russian oil imports for the Czech Republic. We will have an exception for 18 months when it will be possible to import products from Russian oil into the Czech Republic, because we would not be able to replace the blackout quickly, and this is an exception that is very important, because it guarantees that Czech citizens, as you said yourself and I underline it - I only ask who is responsible and why you did nothing about it - even if the Czech Republic does not have a refinery in hand, so thanks to this exemption and our other negotiations it is clear that the Czech Republic and Czech citizens and Czech companies will continue to have enough petrol and oil, which, of course, is important to everyone. In Europe, at the time of our Presidency, I see not only at the level of the European Council but also at the level of the Council of the European Union, in the formats of individual ministers, clear will, efforts to cooperate with us, European leaders and ministers do not avoid us, we manage to deepen crisis cooperation and this is reflected in bilateral relations. Let me just remind you that we signed cooperation between the Czech Republic and Germany during the gas outage, which is important. It is useless, and it merely shows misunderstand when it is ridiculed, because it is of great importance in terms of ensuring our safety. We are developing and trying to place emphasis on neighbourly relations, on cross-border cooperation, because it is beneficial for us, but we are also able to negotiate with other European countries on things that you have failed to move forward for many years. [[15.30 hours]] Or what is extremely important for the Czech Republic in terms of our oil supply, and that is the extension of the TAL pipeline, this is the pipeline that goes from Trieste to Bavaria, which has also been talked about for many years, and nothing happened. We have already increased the capacity and we are negotiating with the countries concerned, Italy, Austria, Germany and Bavaria, so that we can increase it to TAL plus capacity, which is important for the Czech Republic to do without Russian oil in the future. Without the extension of the TAL pipeline, we will not do it and again say: for many years it has been talked about, nothing has happened, but we have moved forward. As I said before, the topic of energy has been addressed since the start of our government, and I have already shown a number of examples where real results can be seen. I also mentioned cooperation with the Netherlands, Germany on the construction of LNG terminal, and I could give a number of other examples when we finally did something about the energy self-sufficiency and security of the Czech Republic, which we took from you in a catastrophic and dangerous form. In recent days, we have initiated negotiations at European level which are intended to lead to a common European solution to the current high energy prices. Of course, our teams are working parallel with this to prepare a national solution, either complementing a European solution or replacing it if we happen to be unable to reach a European solution. But we are doing everything we can to make a European solution, how to stop prices or separate the price of electricity from the gas price, to achieve such a solution, because only such a solution would be efficient enough and even more cost-effective than any national regulation. But we're working on both of these roads. We created a very quickly or we changed the atmosphere very quickly between European leaders who did not want to hear about any common European solution to electricity prices until three weeks ago. We were able to persuade many of them to change their attitude. You can see that other and other premieres, with whom I have regular contact, are joined in public statements, and I am talking to them, and I am convincing the advantages of this European solution. We have also been able to convene the European Union Energy Council in a very quick time, I would almost say in record time - it is not too late, it is very quick, because I do not know if you know this, but for every Council of the European Union, a whole range of documents, materials must be prepared to make any sense at all, so on 9 September Minister Síkela will be leading the Energy Council and I am convinced that they will be discussing relevant proposals there and that we will eventually reach a Europe-wide solution. But I say to all citizens, if this solution is inadequate, if it is not enough to reduce electricity prices or if such a solution does not occur, the Czech Government will have a national path prepared and we are prepared to provide both citizens and companies with available energy, and we are ready to ensure available energy critical infrastructure, public institutions, schools, health care, just all of us, as well as a so-called state trader. No one has to worry, no one has to worry, our government is taking timely and rapid steps, and within a few days we have responded to a sharp increase in electricity in the European market and we have responded to both our activities in Europe and our measures at national level. Just work systemically, work well and conceptually, work quickly, efficiently and professionally, that is something the Czech Republic needs right now, and we are doing it. One example for all: Yesterday we decided to declare a state of prevention of an emergency in the heating industry in order to allow heat plants to address the current high prices of natural gas. This is an example of the fact that we are taking targeted measures. The government has prepared a number of other forms of aid for companies and entrepreneurs here. Those affected, such as energy prices on world markets or in the Czech Republic, or the consequences of Russian aggression in Ukraine or European sanctions and other things, may be affected. We have prepared an amendment to the Export Insurance and Financing Act, with State aid, which addresses these issues, and this amendment is intended to ensure that, for example, guarantees for loans under conditions that have been applied due to the covid-19 pandemic can be used on the basis of decisions taken by the government and other emergencies. So here I'm just showing one example of how we actually respond operationally and competently so that we can really help people. I am not going to comment here on things that concern European policy. I have talked about them enough, and I think that the results that we have achieved are clearly talking about how effective our foreign and European policy is. By the way, with Emmanuel Macron, whom you have been talking about here and which you consider to be a friend, and as you said, the only statesman in Europe, we are in regular contact, and we are also preparing the intended broader summit of all states in Europe, of all democratic states in Europe, which should be held here in Prague, which should address the effects of Russian aggression on Ukraine, Europe, energy prices and all other things, and I think this will be a summit that will bring together all European states and create a platform for the debate that we are missing at the moment. This also shows what role the Czech Republic has today, how we use the Czech Presidency and what we are able to achieve in particular. The last thing I'm going to remind you of here, and I'm happy to do it, and I'd like to mention a lot of other things - and I've mentioned colleagues from some departments, and I'm sorry to those who I couldn't mention in the performance because they're doing a lot of good work, and they're going to get off and say what we've done in these particular areas - but I'd like to mention one more thing. At yesterday's government meeting, we approved the first anti-bureaucratic package, which is preparing for measures to reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, state apparatus, citizens, and on the basis of this package we are ready to present concrete changes in legislation. Finally, we are doing what the business public and citizens have long called for: to cut through a little legal jungle, start reducing bureaucratic burdens, bureaucratic demands on citizens and entrepreneurs. You guys talked about it. It didn't really happen. In just nine months, we are presenting the first anti-Burrocratic package. And that has another thing to do with it, and that is our attempt to thaw the existing service law. You guys have concreted the entire state administration, a lot of authorities don't work the way we would have imagined. You left your people behind, okay, I'm not questioning that. But we need, not to make political changes in the civil service, we will not do that at all, and we do not want to do that, but we need to open up a public service to people from outside who have experience in business, people who have experience in administration, self-government, people who have experience in the academic environment, from abroad, and these people today have virtually no chance of getting into the public service. We will change it so that the government works more as a private sector, not as a company, but was simply more efficient, more open and thus better. Yes, we were able to prepare that in just nine months. [[15.40 hours]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's clear that I should be going now. I recalled a number of measures that our government took at the beginning of its operation. I have shown what we have prepared for Czech citizens, Czech companies, how we are fighting inflation, how we are fighting the energy crisis, what we have done to ensure sufficient energy supply for the coming winter. We don't forget anyone. We take the situation seriously and work intensively to cope with this difficult period. And nothing will change that, or ever more desperately radical and angry rhetoric of the opposition. Our government has, and I believe it will continue to have the support of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Voborská cancels today's apology or apology from today. Next, 1. 9. from 13:30 to 16:00 for working reasons, Mr Pavel Svoboda apologizes and further 1. 9. from 14 to 17 for working reasons, the Minister and Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government, Michal Šalomoun, apologize. We will continue to follow the priority rights, and I will now ask President Tomio Okamura to speak with priority right before the debate is opened. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the ODS government of Petr Fiala trusts just over 20 percent of the population of the Czech Republic. It is a record-less small percentage, but I still have great doubts about the survey, since, aside from the five-wheeler and their government, I really don't know about anyone who would trust this government. I repeat the reasons why the members of the SPD have initiated today's vote on distrust by the government. The Fialův Government is unable to address the increase in energy and food prices and refuses to help our citizens and businesses. Millions of citizens are getting into unsolvable financial and social problems because of the incompetent Prime Minister Fial and the dilettant and incompetent government, failing companies, and threatening to increase unemployment. In all of this, government parties are affected by organized crime, corruption, and mob relations. This government has already done so much evil that it should resign and there should be a new extraordinary election. We all represent citizens here in the House, and more than 70 percent of all Members should therefore voice distrust to the Government. But we know that reality is different. The Fialův's government coalition is just pretending to play a democracy that ends the election day for them, and then this self-appointed elite does what it wants, and the voters, they don't say anything about all the citizens, they don't give a damn. I hear a desperate cry from the Fialův government coalition, how is the opposition calling for a vote of distrust during the Czech Presidency of the European Union? The Chairman of the ANO Babiš movement said he promised not to instigate distrust during the Presidency. A), the SPD has nothing to do with the YES movement. First of all, it is a mistake that Mr Babiš has said such a thing, because it is ridiculous to give and be loyal to anyone just because the Czech Government has come for six months to do the theatre, that we are chairing the European Union, and it has no logic. None of the citizens in our country or the entire Union has any idea who is chairing the time in the Union, and I bet the vast part of the House doesn't know who, for example, presided over last year or the year before. Nobody cares, and there's no reason. [[Let's hear it for the SPD.]] Who really is in charge of the Union, that would be nice to know, but it's not clear. All we see are senseless anti-European and anti-Czech commands and bans. As much as the Fialův government is a master at sucking up to Brussels and Berlin, it is evident that it is sometimes not enough. After a trip by Prime Minister Petr Fiala to Kiev, Brussels journalist Dave Keating, familiar with the position of key people of EU institutions, wrote, and I quote: "Some EU officials are angry about visiting. They say he can start World War III." End of quote. Why am I saying this here? They have already noticed in Brussels that Petr Fiala's government is the government of war fighters, who are trying to bring our republic to war at all costs. This government, with its aggression, reduces the security of our country. The Czech Republic is not at war as Prime Minister Fiala lied publicly in spring. The SPD doesn't want war, we want peace. We want the Czech Republic not to be involved in the war, and if Secretary of Defense Černochová of the ODS publicly approves the murder of innocent civilians, as she recently did, then it is just a demonstration of her moral and mental disability. [[Let's hear it for the SPD.]] The government of Petr Fiala started its work last year after the election by continuing smoothly on the unconstitutional and illegal restrictions. Despite her previous promises, she did the same as she criticized Babišův's previous government. We were not in government, we were also in opposition during the last parliamentary term, but under the Fialův government, the incompetence, confusion and unsystematicity increased. The government, like the previous one, ignored covid treatment options, preferred to declare bans and insisted on non-constitutional compulsory vaccinations until the last moment. Unfortunately, the massive bullying against the unvaccorded started mainly in the police and in the army. Many police officers and soldiers have abandoned their work to do so. The Japanese pharmaceutical company KOWA announced that in a joint clinical study it was confirmed that Ivermectin had antiviral effects both against omicron and against all other variants of SARS-CoV-2. I remember when the media and government officials dehonested Ivermectin, generally ignoring and promoting only vaccinations that they lied about actually protecting the citizen. The worst part is that all government bans, all the covid terror cost us a lot more dead, and it will still be, because the consequences of bans and the availability of health care and prevention are only now beginning to appear. Instead of investing Petr Fiala's government in primary prevention, in improving the fitness of our citizens to correct what it has spoiled, the government has invested in migrants from Ukraine and in helping Ukraine and the Czech people to collect 14 billion for health care. That was last Saturday. Just for the VZP, it means that this year it's going to be over 3 billion in the negative, and the minuses in the health sector are going to go deeper. According to our information, Ukrajinec establish fictitious companies in which they employ Ukrajinec with only one goal - to provide them with cheaper health insurance at VZP. They employ seniors or women in the eighth month of their pregnancy, and they pay twice as much health insurance as they would have paid for commercial insurance. This means, however, that there are thousands of people here who will often receive very expensive care in the future and will not be left with Czech citizens again. The government of Petr Fiala last Saturday, I will repeat again, took 14 billion Czech insurance companies for care for Czech citizens and the government thus made the availability of health care worse for our citizens as well as the working conditions of health professionals. I do not know what Czech pensioners and Czech families did with children of this government that this government does nothing for them; it does not help people in need, unlike how the Fialův government helps Ukrajinec. That is why people quite rightly call the government of Petr Fiala the Ukrainian government, the Prime Minister is called the Ukrainian Prime Minister, and the current miserable situation surrounding the upheaval is quite rightly called the Fialův's expensive. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] [[15.50 hours]] Here I would add that the SPD movement here for six months has been working hard to prevent the adoption of this law from making health care worse for Czech citizens. There's only 20 of us. We fought with all our strength, and finally, your 100-mile government overruled us here on Saturday morning last week. But we will continue to fight for Czech citizens and the Czech Republic so that our citizens, Czech citizens have a higher standard of living and better lives and more security and justice. After all, the government and Parliament are here, ladies and gentlemen, to help their citizens work for them, and you, ministers and ladies ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, why do you give a shit about people? Why did you appoint Ukraine and Ukraine's accession to the EU as your number one priority this year instead of making the lives of our citizens a priority for you? People in need don't care if you went on a trip to Kiev. I've got a lot of desperate citizens texting me. They're desperate for the situation your government has thrown them into! You, Prime Minister, should go to Žižkov to see Mrs. Bartošová, who is worth more than her pension, for a sixty-six-seven-year-old grandmother who has not been able to do legal or social aid to this day, to her grandmother, who literally and to the letter has nothing to eat. You should go to Ostrava, Ústí, Brno, Svitav, where there are victims all over the state of consecrated usury and mafia executors. You'd recognize people who have been paying off debt for, like, 20 years, already overpaid, paid almost a million, and still haven't gotten rid of the debt, because the payments go only to loan shark interest and executor fees. And it is your government, but also Babišův's previous one, that rejected the SPD bill to nationalize executors and to put an interest on consumer credit, like a lot of developed countries in Europe, because the SPD wants to end the loan, and we want to straighten the terms so that it works. We've got thousands of people who don't have electricity and gas anymore. What have you done for them, Prime Minister Fiala? Hand on the heart, what help did they receive from you to this day? Practically nothing. Yes, families with smaller children have been able to apply for a symbolic contribution for three quarters of a year, thanks to the SPD's votes, which will not cover one or two advances, but that is, of course, completely inadequate. What about retired people, disabled people, but families with grown-up children and other decent people? Why don't you help them? Why won't your government help them? Aren't they a little Ukrainian? Do you think I'm overreacting? I'm afraid not! The discrimination of Czech working citizens, Czech seniors, Czech disabled fellow citizens is not only apparent, it is also factually documented. Ukrainian migrants receive 5 000 CZK per person per month from your government, while living minimum from 1. 4. 2022 is only CZK 4 620 per month for the Czech citizen. The Ukrajinec can get up to 12,000 a month for housing and are given apartments as a priority. Ukrainian children receive free lunches in the school cafeteria, while many of our children cannot go to lunch because their parents do not have lunches. Let us remember that the school directors had to make lunches more expensive for the Czech children because they did not receive money for lunches for Ukrainian children from the government. Summer camps for Ukrainian children are free, while our children must be paid for 14 days stay around CZK 3,000. If you will allow me, I will quote from a letter from one grandmother, an elderly woman in need who writes to me as many others do, and I quote: "What this government of Petr Fiala allows to happen in our country is treason! " End of quote. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister and Ministers, here we have the key to the fact that more than 70 percent of citizens, according to statistics, do not trust your government. You do nothing for your citizens, but everything for your friends abroad, and it doesn't matter if it's the American arms lobby, your leaders in Brussels and Berlin or Ukrainian migrants. The normal decent Czech citizen is in last place with you, people can see it and today he also feels quite strongly about his wallets. The problem, of course, is that ministries have once again become political traders, which have been handled according to the political key. Yes, I would find some experts in the government, such as representatives of the STAN movement are certainly good for the economy, because milking and robbing the state is really their program. The problem, however, is, as we know, that they work only for themselves, not for the state, and their methods are illegal, more precisely, according to the police, they are organized crime, mafia and corruption. To the way you were here a moment ago, Prime Minister, you twisted the facts again and lied when you spoke about the Service Act - the facts are completely different. You here pushed through the first reading of the bill on the Service Act so that the ministers could have an unlimited number of political deputies in your ministries, because you need to stick as many political traitors as possible and your fellow party members into the top positions of the state administration for hundreds of thousands a month! . [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] That's your policy! And it is we who voted against! So that's the fact you should have said here, but you're lying as usual! But you can't fool me, because I have a higher turnout here in this House than you do, and I'm watching everything. Prime Minister Petr Fiala is simply not a leader or a personality, he has no respect for citizens, and he doesn't even respect himself as chairman of his own party, let alone as prime minister. Petr Fiala is weak, indecisive, without vision, without courage, without managerial abilities, he just sends signals that no one receives, and no one really knows what he wants. What's his program? You can listen to him for days, but you don't get specific bearing ideas. The SPD movement wants direct democracy, pirát legalization of marijuana and receiving migrants, STAN pass to sponsors of business. But what does the ODS want with Mr. Fiala? I was literally ashamed when I recently saw a video from the European Parliament where a foreign Belgian MEP squeals the Czech Prime Minister as a little boy, and he humbly listens and stabs his head. I'd get up and leave. Prime Minister Petr Fiala humiliated our entire country there. It is already a matter of distrust, because if this government refuses to defend our country and is already clearly allowed to dictate and command from Brussels, then this government has nothing to do with the head of our country. And the Prime Minister didn't just humiliate himself on that rug in Brussels, he humiliated the whole country, our nations, our state, each of us. There's no shame in not having the guts as your party predecessor Topolánek liked to talk about it, but someone is born with them, someone isn't. But a man who isn't a man has nothing to do with the leadership of our country! [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] We saw how our republic was led by such immature boys like Gross or Sobotka, and also where they led their parties. The fact that ODS is still in the polls is because those who do not like Babiš and Okamura really do not have an easy choice and so far choose the least evil. That is the term for today's issue of distrust to the government, but evil is always evil. I see nothing fundamental and good that the Fialův government would bring to our country, and we see many evils and harms that it has done. Some of the government parties in the past professed freedom and a small state. What's the reality? The government has actively begun censoring other opinions. The government forced web operators to shut down critical Internet media. The government's attorney-in-chief has openly threatened to put people in prison if they show a different opinion from the permitted one. The government didn't even say anything about it. Clearly, the introduction of censorship and restrictions on freedom and expression of opinion is one of the aims of this government, Petr Fiala. This is a clear violation of human rights and a further shift to the authoritarian system and the destruction of the last remnants of democracy in our country. And for the SPD movement, I guarantee that we will defend freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic until our last breath. [[Let's hear it for the SPD movement.]] [[16.00 hours]] The June Happy Household Energy Price Index, which compares the price of energy for households in individual European metropolises, states that, for example, the Pražan pay the highest price throughout Europe after conversion according to the parity of the purchasing power of the currency for electricity. You hear well, the highest price in all of Europe! The Czech Republic is one of the largest electricity exporters in the world. In the first half of this year, the Czech Republic exported 5 million megawatt hours more than it imported. The production price of electricity in the Czech Republic is in the order of tenhalers. We produce extremely cheap electricity and we are the sixth largest exporters in the EU. We have excess electricity, but it is the most expensive in Europe for our companies and citizens because of the Fialův government. Petr Fiala's government does not deliberately address the energy cost, although it could be dealt with in fact, figuratively speaking, by cutting the pen. It would be enough to adopt a law that would order ČEZ to sell directly in the Czech Republic and at overhead prices. The costs of bakeries, factories, farmers and families and pensioners would be reduced immediately. Instead of helping, this government, on the contrary, parasites its own citizens and businesses in an unspoiled way. Jaroslav Hašek used to say, quote, "Put the cow in the mouth and she'll punch you in the face." [[That's right, "baby."]] That means if I want milk, I have to feed the milk cow. This government is doing the opposite. She takes the proverbial mouth of anyone who can, without thinking that if she destroys industry, farmers, businessmen, there will be no one to feed her. The government doesn't always have to be popular at any cost. If he does unpopular, but the right thing, fine. But this Petr Fiala government isn't really doing anything fundamental and positive at a time when action had to be taken last year. Already last year, energy prices began to rise, which started inflation, and it began with the fact that Eurohujers, including those Czechs in the government, announced with great glory a plan for Europe's energy collapse called Green Deal. By the way, the Němec have tried it, and to this day, we know that it has failed. They've just shut down their nuclear and coal power plants, which they're missing, so cheap electricity from their core and coal is being sent to the Servile Purple government at the expense of our citizens and companies. The Němec wanted to produce electricity by burning Russian gas, but the Američan, Polák and Ukraine forced them not to get the finished Nord Stream 2. You've imposed sanctions on Russia, and now you're staring at the Rus delaying the maintenance of a functioning gas pipeline, because sanctions are blocking the payments for repairs and the handover of turbines. This wasn't made up by the evil Putin, this hell you invented in your country and the citizens. Your incompetence, more precisely the ability to destroy your own country, is promising at least that only a fool would now risk and attack Europe if he could just wait for your type's politicians to destroy it. It is very unfortunate because, for example, Orbán in Hungary shows that the country can be led to survive in order to survive the nation, culture and economy. Russian gas and oil are purchased by Hungarians, Bulgarians and other European states and Němec have a contract with Russian Gazprom for gas collection up to 2030. On Tuesday, in the television debate, energy specialist Vladimír Štěpán said that we should, like a large part of the West, buy some of the gas directly from Russia. Prime Minister Fiala's advisor David Havlíček said it could not be done because of Ukraine. And here I would like to point out that the SPD has never advocated dependence on one source or Russia. On the contrary, we have been calling for diversification of resources and energy security in the Czech Republic for several years. It was the only SPD that tried to enforce both the energy and food security of the Czech Republic during the last parliamentary term, but no one listened to our calls and our warnings earlier. Members of the current government coalition laughed about it, but even Andrej Babiš was deaf. And now, in the crisis, you can see that unfortunately, our words have come up and your incompetence and your laxity. And now all citizens of the Czech Republic, our businesses and companies, tradesmen who are also failing because of your government. But I am talking about this year's situation, where, of course, the options for alternatives are very limited. It's getting colder, fall's coming, winter's coming. So let me get this straight. It is certainly good - and we were the only ones here to talk about it - to work on energy security, to diversify resources so that we have a choice, I want to emphasise that again. But now let's look at this year's situation, what's ahead of us now, this winter. The Germans are fighting for every cube to secure cheap energy, and the Fialův government voluntarily cuts off our country's cheap resources as obedient sheep. To sum up, energy and economic experts make it quite clear that energy prices need to be reduced because these are the input costs that increase prices and produce inflation. Experts agree that the path to this is simple and in fact the way that democratic Western countries have chosen, i.e. to provide cheap oil and gas resources and to introduce state surveillance over electricity prices. That's what the SPD has been talking about all along, that is, the solution that is in some Western democratic countries. The deliriousness of the European solution, the common European solution is beyond reality, and above all, it cannot help Czech consumers. Even Prime Minister Fiala may understand that income in the Czech Republic is different from that in Germany, and it is not possible for Čech to have German spending and low Czech income today. There's no way electricity prices are the same as in the West. It is not possible for Čech to actually subsidize their cheap electricity from rich neighbouring countries. There will be no single procedure because individual states already have their own energy strategy and policy. Likewise, buying a common resource will not help us, because it does not currently address this or the next winter. There are solutions, only the Fialův government deliberately ignores them, and I've already said some of them in my performance. But if we want to save gas, we just need to shut down our two gas plants and save about 15 percent of the gas. In the future, we need to build pumping power plants that would allow us to store energy surpluses in quotation marks so that we do not often have to export it free of charge to Austria and Germany, so that this energy is available in energy peaks, when we, on the contrary, buy extremely overpriced electricity from Germany. Let me just remind you that Czechoslovakia in the 1980s planned to build a total of fourteen such pumping plants, absolutely essential for the energy self-sufficiency and stability of our energy network. Unfortunately, the governments of that time had only one chance to build. Let's move on. Since April, this April, the Association of Entrepreneurs has called on the government to communicate with them and present any strategy. To this day, the Fialův government is ignoring them, and no one knows what's going to happen tomorrow. The incompetent Minister of Industry Síkela of the STAN movement is locked in an office or maybe somewhere on vacation, but he does not communicate with entrepreneurs - with entrepreneurs and companies, he simply does not communicate with businesses. At the same time, industry and businesses are crucial to our economy and employment, and it is these associations and associations that complain about your communication. [[16.10 hours]] Now, the government doesn't want to say that it won't help before the municipal and senate elections, but we all see that it's not really helping. Why? Hundreds of billions of taxes on overpriced energy, hundreds of billions from ČEZ, is something that is useful to the government. The government is completely deliberately ignoring the cost, deliberately bringing companies and citizens to the brink of collapse just to fill its state cash register, from which it gives generously to foreign arms companies, Ukraine or migrants. By the way, while you are already there and you have already agreed to purchase their 52 billion infantry vehicles, I wanted to invite you to ensure that at least 50 percent of this huge contract is provided by Czech companies and Czech industry, because we need money from your indebted state budget to go back to the Czech economy, because I am told that they will do it again from a large part of the foreign company, foreign suppliers, and that is simply unacceptable for you to continue selling the Czech Republic. The SPD movement promotes modernization of the Czech army. We are for a modern, actionable army, we say that all the time, but we also have to have it, and it has to be real, of course. I have no idea how in this situation you can buy America's most expensive overpriced fighters for CZK 100 billion, when the Švéd offer us free modernization of our Gripens here and it would cost us a lot cheaper. And of course, the citizens are already asking, "Will this not be a commission again, as it was during the ODS government headed by Mirek Topolánek?" Isn't there corruption again? Well, I hope we know how it is in time. And these are all the extra tens of billions that you promised in Washington, Brussels, Kiev and everywhere, but all at the expense of the needs of Czech citizens and companies that are now in crisis - because of your government, because you have sold out abroad and are making policies against the interests of our citizens and companies. In addition to all the above, let us add STAN scandals, the second-strongest government party headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, a group connected to organized crime. Since the very beginning, since 2010, the gangster from the band of the worst Czech mobster and criminal Radovan Krejčíř Michal Redl has effectively managed the gangster from the band of the worst Czech mobster and criminal, which was publicly confirmed by the Minister of Culture for the movement STAN Jiří Besser. The fact that this real head of STAN, i.e. Michal Redl, was deprived of his rightfulness, is just an illustration of the mosaic of this case. It is really crazy that Czech civilian intelligence chief Petr Mlejnek went to consult with an incompetent mobster and co-worker Radovan Krejčíř a few times a year with the Fialův Government. After all, where else can we get information other than in the underworld linked to the top policy of the Petr Fiala coalition? After all, we have no doubt that that is why this gentleman was appointed and that his appointment was recommended by Michal Redl himself, who was designated by the police as the head of organised crime around politicians STAN and TOP 09, because, as we know, one of the top politicians of the TOP 09 and MEP Jiří Pospíšil are involved in this case of organised crime. Jan Bartošek, Vice-President of the House for KDU-ČSL, publicly confessed to Petr Mlejnek's recommendation to the head of the Secret Service and thus got people involved in the whole case. And all this organized crime of the mafia and corruption is happening under the mayor, under the pirate mayor, under the Prague mayor behind the pirát Zdeněk Hřib, who either knew about it all, and until we know that he knew about it, or is so incompetent and so incompetent, he hasn't noticed all this time that at the Prague City Hall with his political partners, with his coalition partners in charge of the magistrate, there is an organized crime and that public millions are being robbed completely unscrupulated. Either way, the pirát failed. By the way, when I was with the Pirates, the Pirates and STAN coalition, the Pirates and STAN electoral coalition, to this day, I did not clarify who the end-owners of the companies that sponsored their election campaign for elections to the Chamber of Deputies last October. We still haven't heard, and the pirát aren't asking because they prefer to be at the trough, they want to be in government rather than fight corruption and unclear practices, because the Pirates' campaign, the pirát' coalition and the STAN's still unexplained, and both the pirát and the STAN are silent. But perhaps even worse for the whole situation is that Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS himself falsely testifies for the benefit of a man connected to the mob, who shamelessly claims a manifest lie that Mr. Mlejnek helped uncover the Dozimeter case. This lie was refuted by the police, the prosecutor and the media in the bud. It's crazy that Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself is falsely testifying in public in the name of a suspect who has ties with people connected to the mob. Why is he lying? Are they blackmailing him? Or is he himself connected to this gang of organized crime? Well, there's at least a political connection, we all see that. That is a question that the Prime Minister himself, unfortunately, has raised today with his lies. This, too, is one of the reasons in itself for the fall of the Prime Minister and the government. Unfortunately, this government has gathered so many scandals in three quarters of a year, it has done so much evil that it would be enough for dozens of government crashes. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan is the chairman of the STAN group, which is being investigated by several police teams, and there are suspicions of tax evasion, money laundering, drug distribution, corruption, organised crime, and probably more. Petr Fiala's government deliberately liquidates Czech companies, Czech households, only to make money that it intends to spend on behalf of abroad. This government refuses to help its citizens. This government destroys democracy in our country, it also destroys human rights, especially the right to freedom of expression and opinion. You even created a new position on the government, held by Mr Klíma, a colleague of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. You have put in place a top censor, which is even paid out of public funds to check whether citizens are expressing themselves in accordance with government lines, and those who are not, so you have even created a website, a government website, as we know, this year and you have called on people to bang each other's neighbors and friends and report to each other when someone has a subjective impression that someone around him has no opinions as to what your official government lines determine. That's an incredible mess your government is showing off. And then, of course, after the general criticism, you suddenly started to downplay this monstrous proposal of yours, but this proposal itself fully illustrates Petr Fiala's arrogant, elitist and overlooking government. So this government really is clearly and conclusively harmful to this country in all conceivable areas. I was talking about health, I was talking about finances, I was talking about social affairs, I was talking about freedom and democracy. Every citizen, every businessman, every manager and owner of the company can see it through their own pockets, and anyone who dares to say something forbidden will see it through their own personal freedom. This government has crossed conceivable boundaries and should leave immediately or be abandoned. [[16.20 hours]] Here I would mention another lie that Prime Minister Petr Fiala said before me. I hear you're raising pensions. Don't you ever lie again! Part of the pensions is increasing this year on the basis of the law adopted before your government, and it is increasing automatically because of inflation. That means even if there was a trained monkey in the government, people will be raised their pensions, even without the intervention of your government. At a time when inflation exceeds a certain limit, citizens automatically increase their pensions, without your government's intervention, so don't take credit for something you haven't done at all and have no influence on. On the contrary, there is a need to talk about where your government's approach to increasing disability, old age, widows and orphans' pensions was proven, because last summer we voted here on raising pensions, that is the 300 crowns that have been received by pensioners since January, and that was beyond legal valorisation. And here I want to remind you, and again, I say it publicly here that the parties of your current government coalition voted against raising pensions last year, against raising old-age, widowed, orphaned and disabled pensions! The increase for this year was only due to the votes of the ANO movement, thanks to the votes of the SPD movement, and then I think we have two Members from a party that is no longer in the House today. So you, when you were in opposition last parliamentary term - yes, the SPD was also in opposition, we were not part of Babišův's government nor did we ever support it by saying trust or by supporting the budget, of course not - so because we did not agree with a number of these political steps of some, but where we agreed was raising pensions, it certainly was. Everywhere people could get more money, decent people, and where it was directed in accordance with our political program SPD, so we do not politicize, for us it is first for Czech citizens to have more security, justice and money. But you, your government, Petr Fiala's government, when you were still in opposition as we were, and your government, your MPs voted against raising pensions! That's what needs to be emphasized here. So pensions are not increasing thanks to you this year, they are increasing thanks to the vote of the SPD, YES and two Members, now I don't remember which party they were already behind, but they were the MPs from the parties that are no longer here. So don't lie, you're against seniors! You're against the disabled! You're against orphans! You're against widows! So stop taking credit that you don't have... not only do you have no influence on them, but you were even directly opposed. So let's move on. At this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we will vote on the distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. We all know that the government coalition has a majority of 108 votes here in the House, and the opposition has only 92 votes, but yet the entire SPD MP will be there to convince you to resign and stop your inability to harm the vast majority of Czech citizens who no longer want your government and Prime Minister Fiala. Here I would like to remind you: Yes, we voted with the YES movement, I remember one of these very medialized laws - yes, thanks to the SPD's votes, the super gross wage has been abolished and we are proud that thanks to the SPD's votes, all working people have more money in their wallets. That's right, thanks to the SPD members' votes, all people have more money in their wallets since this year because they didn't want to add to the vote ČSSD, they didn't want to join KSČM - because it was the government of the movement YES, ČSSD, KSČM - so thanks to the votes of the members of the SPD, because we had more people in the program, just decent people, more money in their wallets, so the super gross wage was abolished and people have more money in their wallets thanks to us. I'm applying, that's right. At the same time, we have also proposed budget cuts, where to take the money: to humiliate the payments to the European Union, to abolish the abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. This is the law that the government coalition rejected this year too, the government coalition of Petr Fiala. We've put in here the SPD law to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. It would save the state budget by calculating between half a billion and a billion crowns, and your coalition here rejected it! Your coalition of Petr Fiala supports the inadaptable at the expense of our decent citizens, but we will propose it again. We'll redesign it! The SPD movement here this year has already proposed dozens of laws, such as increasing support for disabled people, care allowance, mobility allowance. Well, I'm glad that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka finally wants to take over this SPD proposal, and now I heard somewhere on TV that he probably woke up a little bit and that he wanted to increase his mobility allowance a little bit. We have already proposed this both in the last parliamentary term and in this parliamentary term. You've been blocking it all along, you're against disabled people, but our hard-working opposition work - at least we'll push you out of opposition sometimes. So, of course, it's the credit of the SPD when the disabled get a little bit more. You're gonna take it from me, but you need to say here that you've been against the support of disabled people the whole time, and you've blocked our proposal. It could already have been disabled a long time ago, disabled citizens could already have had more money. So are pensions. We have been proposing a minimum dignified pension law here all the time, as is true in a number of Western countries by the way, so that the minimum decent pension in the Czech Republic is at minimum wage level, that is, today it is just over CZK 16,000, and from this amount - of course, under legal conditions, that means years worked out, or, in the case of disabled citizens, of course, they meet those conditions - and only from this amount creditworthy. That means, of course, so-called inadaptables would get nothing, but only from this amount of credit, because for pensions 10, 12, 13,000 simply cannot be lived on! So, SPD... We are also proposing here all the time that pensions should increase to all the same amount, not the same percentage as Andrej Babiš has constantly promoted here, and that is what he is promoting here, or you are not actually pushing up pensions, which I have already talked about, your government does not give a shit about retired people. You're owning an automatic valorization that you don't have any influence over the governments that have taken over before you. That's really incredibly insolence -- well, more like desperation, but it needs to be said so that citizens know that you're lying here and taking credit for someone else's. You didn't even lift a finger. So, of course, the SPD is proposing these proposals here to increase everyone by the same amount, not by a percentage, because by increasing the same percentage to all pensioners, scissors are being opened. The richer have more and the poorer have less, the poorer are even poorer, richer and richer. I say we add to all pensioners, but the problem is below average pensions, which is most pensioners in the Czech Republic, logically. There is a need to help and increase pensions. And even Andrej Babiš didn't do it here, that's why and the SPD's proposals are going to do it. Really, increasing the discount on the taxpayer - I have seen that the government of Petr Fiala has taken advantage of how much money you have calculated, how much money you have given to whom - I am not surprised that citizens can't see it at all and feel nothing about their wallets - you have taken on live not just those pensions, and I am here to explain that you, on the contrary, were opposed to raising pensions, that it is the credit of us from the last parliamentary term for this year, but you are also putting in there an increase in the discount on the taxpayer. But that is the law that was once again adopted in the last parliamentary term! He wasn't accepted under your rule, so really stop lying! You didn't raise the tax credit, your government didn't raise it, your government coalition. This was voted on last term, when you were not yet in the government, and of course the SPD supported it. It's also because of the SPD's votes, because we want working people to have more money in their wallets. Of course, retired, disabled, elderly, but also families with children, mothers, just all decent people. On the contrary, you are... you are advancing against the people. You guys cut the fare off! You took money from other weakened groups or socially sensitive groups - retirees and students. You took their money, even though it's Fialův's price! And instead, you moved the money to Ukraine and abroad in the form of contracts, but I already talked about it. So what you've really done here in the quarter of a year since you've been with the government, but in the House, your coalition has had a majority for almost a year, so it's incredible how you've devastated all decent citizens. And now, of course, let us be very clear, and I have been saying this for months now, that the situation is really critical, and for many of our citizens and companies, because of your incompetent government, financial and social disaster is approaching. If the government continues like this, in this composition, it really doesn't turn out well. [[16.30 hours]] Each of the government's Members, that is, is ruled by the government's coalition of ODS, STAN, TOP 09, People's Party and Pirates, each of these government MPs who will vote in favour of the Fialův Government, which we are supposed to vote on tomorrow, so each of these government Members is jointly responsible for the current problems of our citizens. But there is a solution for citizens here because you have a hundred and eighty. The members of the SPD are 20, members of the YES are 72, the opposition is 92. There are only two opposition parties here, so you seem to outvote us again. But there is a solution here for the citizens. As early as September 23 and 24 of this year, there will be a referendum on the Fialův Government. At this time, there will be municipal and Senate elections, and I would like to call on the citizens: Come to the elections with your family and friends to express your opinion on the Fialův's government coalition and support the opposition's SPD. The important thing is not to smash voices. Only a good result of the parliamentary opposition in the elections will put pressure on the government to resign. There's no point in voting for any non-voting parties. It's clearly given, there are five sides to the government coalition and two opposition parties. Once again, there is no point in voting for non-voting parties because they are not in the House. Dear citizens, this government is like deaf and blind. This government is not interested in the lives and worries of ordinary citizens. Here in the House, where I stand now, there is an impenetrable wall between the government and the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's why the only option this arrogant government can hear is an incompetent government with incompetent Prime Minister Fiala, all they can hear about, and believe me, it's my old experience, it's the election, it's the election. At the moment when the parties weaken the government coalition when they have to leave paid positions at city hall, it will cause political tensions in government parties and political pressure from the bottom up, so that the government will either leave, and in that case they will start to fall apart gradually, crumble and become tense, or at least start doing something for the citizens. That is why the September elections, 23 and 24 September 2022, will be a referendum on the government. I wanted to call on all citizens: come to the elections and please support the SPD candidates unitedly in order to send out a clear signal to the Fialův Government. It's really an extremely important moment. I koukat Prime Minister Petr Fiala has finally returned to the ballroom because he wasn't worth listening to the third strongest performance - according to preferences - of the party in the Czech Republic, he doesn't care. According to the polls, Prime Minister, I'm looking at you now, according to the latest polls presented yesterday by Nova on her server, from your government five-wheeler, three parties wouldn't have made it to the House by now. And if there were an election to the House now, according to the latest survey, the vast majority of the MPs would have won the current opposition, the present two opposition parties, and you might have gotten, from the way I saw it, maybe a third of the seats, maybe not. That's the reality of today. So this is where I wanted to offer the citizens a solution. You need to pull together, you need to come to the communal, senate election. It would be a huge shock to the government's five coalitions if they succeeded in the Senate as senators, as senators of opposition parties. That would be a huge shock to them. It will be a huge shock to them if their number of representatives in the municipalities and cities falls significantly. Here's the moment. Here are the important choices. And here I would like to conclude by pointing out that there are no elections next year. Next year is an extraordinary year in which there are no elections, the elections will not be for two years. It will be elections to the European Parliament and to the regional elections. Therefore, citizens, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, have for a long time the last chance to comment on whether you are satisfied or dissatisfied with the government of Petr Fiala. Now, on September 23rd and 24th at the municipal and senate elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Another with priority rights, as agreed, is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, members of the Government, honourable colleagues, colleagues, Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I thought I would also speak to the absent Member Babiš. He's been making some kind of announcement earlier that he knows what I'm gonna say. It kind of freaked me out if those holding cops seem like they can see into our preparations. I don't know, but he missed, so then I calmed down a little bit. I am not here to tell any things that are primarily related to the YES movement, although at the end of the organized crime and its expansion into various structures I am sure and happy to get. But first, we need to ask ourselves a fundamental question. Why is this meeting happening today? This meeting is because Andrej Babiš is afraid. What is Andrej Babiš afraid of? He fears the future, fears the court, fears protesters at his own meetings, and, of course, fears preferences in the presidential elections. It's suddenly starting to look like it might not quite work out. And, of course, he's afraid of me at the Ministry of the Interior, because the YES movement has always been perceived by the Ministry of the Interior as a forceful, influential resort, where the state is governed, where various structures of power are applied as such. So I'll never be able to see the Home Office. I want to see the Ministry of the Interior as an office of security, the Ministry of Security, which will give citizens a clear public administration that will give citizens a functional integrated rescue system, a functional crisis management that will give citizens at that first stage, and digital projects that will make sense. And as such, I certainly do not see the Ministry of the Interior as a place from which some illegitimate influence should be applied on any structure in our state. Maybe that's why I shouldn't be at the Ministry of the Interior, because today, quite surprisingly, Andrej Babiš admitted that I could be at another ministry - he's sending me to school. I'm not going in there, we have a great minister, Vladimír Balaš is definitely doing great and he's gonna make it. So he admits that I can be in government - I can't be on the inside. For some reason, he probably doesn't like me there. But now I'm going to be a little bit boring, but that's part of the fact that the opposition led us to recapitulate what we achieved at our ministries. I will focus very on what agenda we have dealt with at the Ministry of the Interior, what results we have achieved and what we still want to achieve. Firstly, we have devoted ourselves to crisis management. One of the first decisions I made was to abolish, change the old status of the crisis staff, the Central Crisis Staff, which we inherited after the ANO movement, where the Prime Minister made himself president of the Central Crisis Staff. We have returned to the established tradition that the head of the crisis staff is either the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Defence in case of war. At the same time, we returned because we came to government positions at the time of the covid, to the established functional management of the crisis. It is decided by the Central Crisis Staff and the Central Crisis Staff established by the Working Commission. In agreement with the Minister of Health Válek, we immediately abolished the Council of the Government for Health Risks, which in the entire system of managing the Covido crisis was only a functional duplication and a competitive centre of decision-making against the Central Crisis Staff. As the Prime Minister has already recapitulated here, just a focused, unambiguously high-quality and systematic fight against the covid pandemic, this government, Petr Fiala's government, has managed to do so. She handled it very well, without any sharp restrictions on the inhabitants of our country, without any major bans and restrictions on life. Still, we did it. At the same time, in the context of crisis management, we are planning something that mayors and mayors have long called for, and they were not getting it. We are preparing simple cards, so-called checklists, which will instruct how to behave in various types of crises - floods, blackouts, pandemic crises, migration crises. Simple, controllable and easy to meet points that they will be able to have on their desks and quickly to protect the safety and health of citizens of the Czech Republic, to respond to that. [[16.40 hours]] At the same time, we have newly conceived working groups of the Central Crisis Staff, which work well, a strategic group for the management of the entire Ukrainian migration crisis is, of course, also subject to the Central Crisis Staff and to no one else. It's a functional, clear, clear structure. The government has committed itself by the end of 2023, so it is in the government's programming statement to amend Czech crisis legislation. We have had a lot of debates here, whether we were in opposition or in government, about whether or not there is a need for an emergency state at which time not to declare it, and the opposition here played a little falsely on the string of how they do not need an emergency situation in Poland, and so on. Well, because they have six levels of crisis control, we have three. We have a state of danger, we have an emergency and a state of war. We want to fix this and fix it by the end of 2023. The next item is crisis communication. We have set up a crisis information team of KrIT experts within the Ministry of the Interior (?). Their task is to create campaigns, information campaigns in times of crisis, but of course - and we will not hide from populists on this subject - of course their role is to face disinformation. Yes, actively seeking misinformation, strategic misinformation that may harm the strategic interests of the Czech Republic, and may also be part of a wider disinformation campaign against our country. What did you, your former government, leave us in the area of misinformation? Nothing. The structure was not prepared and we came up with an analysis by the Ministry of the Interior, which clearly states: There is no systemic development of media literacy, media education, no capacity for comprehensive strategic communication of the state, no support for the non-governmental non-profit sector in this area is created. Well, of course there is a need to face misinformation, because disinformation is often motivated by the very environment such as Russia, China, and by influencing our inner life in our country, and we do not oppose this. Of course, the government has done well to establish a position of agent for the fight against misinformation, and it has done well and will do well to establish a national security advisor, because at this moment Putin is not fighting only against Ukraine, there is an information war going on, there is an energy war going on, and we are certainly not ashamed that our state and our government are prepared by all means of this attack on our sovereignty and on the processes in our country to face. If you call this censorship, you don't understand. No one will censor information on the web about the fact that the Earth is flat, that people discuss it and do not believe in scientific knowledge. But in any case, strategic lies threatening the security of our country, any government must respond to them. That is what was mentioned here in the speech by President Okamura, and I will certainly not avoid this subject and I am proud of what piece of work we have done compared to the previous period. Police reform - so here I listened to something on the Security Committee, how unsystemic it is, if this Rakušan doesn't happen to decompose NCOZ somehow purposefully and so on. Well, this reform was being prepared here by the former government, or the working committee appointed by the former Interior Minister - you can apply to it, you don't have to, it was from another party, but coalition - and the group, reform, in unchanged personnel form - were represented by prosecutors, elite police officers, experts, academics - prepared a reform of specialised workplaces. It has already been presented for my leadership, it was prepared for the former police president, and I was presented by the new police president sometime in April. The reform sets out special working units to combat terrorism, extremism and cybercrime from NCOZ. There will be special units that are able to respond to the current security threats for the Czech Republic. Any interpretation that it was something special is absolutely pointless, and most importantly, and you have to get used to it, I wasn't interfering with the cops. With this came the expert group at the Ministry of the Interior, presented it to me by the police president, I, after examining my expert team, asked several questions, signed the reform of specialized workplaces unchanged and put my thumb on it politically so that it could be presented to you on all platforms where it should be presented. That's it, that's a clean, transparent process. And it would probably be good to get used to the fact that this is how it's going to go down in the police. I will not influence her politically to invent, like some former ministers, what specialized police departments are supposed to look like. I will get to know it, and in any case, I will exercise my political will if I come to know, after consulting experts, that the direction is right, and I have no doubt about it here. Likewise, if I am blamed in all sorts of criminal cases that I would interfere with something, it is evident that all criminal cases, fall to whom, are saved, just show that I will not interfere in any such processes, no matter what political force in this country, regardless of any policy. I will never exercise any informal influence, and if it has ever been customary in the past, everyone has to get used to the fact that this is not how the Ministry of the Interior works and will definitely not work. Another matter I would like to mention here is the Czech Post. Do you realize the state in which you left us the Czech Post, with what debt, with which unpaid state support for the Czech Post? That the Czech Post - now I do not criticize management, nor do I criticize the director of Knap - that the Czech Post simply could not develop unless the state created conditions for it? That the director of the Czech Post presented a comprehensive concept of the development of the Czech Post, which the government did not even discuss, by the middle of last year, nor did the government attempt to do so, that I found it in a drawer at the Ministry of the Interior and it was not discussed at all? You let it go, you let it go even so that the salary conditions of the employees of the Czech Post are miserable. There was a huge overemployment in middle management, which was dealt with by us, about 400 people were released - not by mailmen, not by deliverymen, not by directors, but by people with white collars and sitting in various PR positions of management of the Czech Post. It's already happened, it's already been realized. Yes, we called off the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post, and if you compare it with the previous and current composition, you will in any event admit that the professionalism of candidates who were eventually nominated is much higher and that the party membership or membership of any business group has played no role here. The fact that we are going to issue a transparent, open and sophisticated tender for the new CEO is a legitimate step and you will see that these conditions will be written so that a wide range of candidates, of course with appropriate professional backgrounds and experience, will be able to sign up for them. There's no one ahead of time. On the contrary, we want to acquire a quality manager who can handle the transformation of the Czech Post, and it must be said that in this form the Czech Post will not really survive. As soon as we implement the decision of the former Parliament, the former government coalition of data boxes, as well as for all tradesmen, and the volume of what the Czech Post is profiting from will drop significantly, these are valuable writings, of course, and we must respond by making the structure of the Czech Post look different. But we've been doing it, we've been working on it in the first few months, and we're taking gradual steps. With management, we're discussing what you left lying somewhere locked up in the work desk, because it wasn't exactly a sexy election theme, doing some reform steps and changing things. Law 106 on free access to information - it was to be approved again last summer, you left him lying here, we immediately started working on it - the law after a long, difficult political and expert debate with such organizations as Reconstruction of the State and the like - came to the conclusion that it was approved by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Firstly, we have arranged not to pay any fine, the European transposition is here, but, secondly, we have prevented the bullying filings that bother the mayors, the captains and the various authorities - that is a very important point. Secondly, we have included such companies as CEZ into the system that they must provide information, once again another significant step towards transparency. [[16.50 hours]] For others, we have also arranged that scientific research, data from it are under adequate protection, as well as key information on critical infrastructure within the Czech Republic. We're setting up an election management bill. It will certainly be a big debate in the Chamber of Deputies, which we look forward to with you. There's already a work proposition. In addition to the fact that there will be an information system of elections, which is being prepared, candidates will be able to be served from the comfort of home, representatives of political parties will not have to stand long queues, we will have an ePetice tool here, we will have a single list of voters, so you will be able to pick up your voting card elsewhere than at the office where you belong. Here will be filled with the possibility to choose freely in another part of the Republic, in different types of elections. We will certainly discuss whether two-day elections are worthwhile or more effective one-day elections, we will certainly discuss the abolition of local jurisdiction for the issue of the electoral card and so on. In the same way, we come up with a law that may not make many happy - the supervision of political parties. The office that oversees the political parties, and we've all experienced that it often controls formalities, but then maybe it doesn't check that one political party is handing out a book in a campaign and doesn't have to put it there because it's definitely not a campaign product, it's definitely not, it's just signing and handing out everywhere, but it's not the product that doesn't count there. Then we would like the election campaign in the Czech Republic to actually take place according to conditions that will be comparable for all. And this is certainly a matter that does not suit many, and I look forward to the discussion here and the arguments. Basic registers - in what condition did you leave the basic registers? Do you know how much investment in basic registers is estimated? 300 million crowns one time! In this emergency, we will have to do so. We drew attention to this as opposition to what they are in - the basics from which we draw state data. We are now preparing the material that has this emergency situation - once again the legacy of the former government - to address the interior department, within weeks, months, because here we can really get into a critical situation. We renewed the Public Administration section at the Ministry of the Interior - historically there was, meaninglessly canceled - because we want the Ministry of the Interior to be the office, which is also a kind of methodical place for mayors, mayors, representatives, captains. To communicate with the public openly, transparently, using new applications, new websites, and to open a home that has always been a hallmark of a house of repression, just as an office of modern public administration - that is our ambition, that is our vision, the Ministry of Security, and we are filling it and filling it to the fact that we have been in government for a few months, with a team at the Ministry of the Interior very successfully. The Lustration Act - it's probably gonna hurt, we're gonna come here with it. And here I may understand the other context why I shouldn't be on the inside - but even if I wasn't there, they're gonna make it. Lusting law is important. We want to renew the rendering law so that the Prime Minister of this country, the Minister or the Deputy Minister cannot be an aesthetic. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Whether he was a worker, an agent, a snitch, whether he worked in a good one or a bad StB - I don't know any good ones, in my opinion they were all evils. Just the one who doesn't have a negative illustration certificate will not be able to operate in this function. Maybe that bothers you, too. I'm keeping the Ukrainian crisis under control. We often hear the sentences that the authorities, the mayors, the nonprofit sector, our people, did it. You're right, they did great. Without them, we couldn't have done it as a government. We found the perfect communication partners and showed up primarily to IZS, our firefighters, policemen, as absolute professionals. But the government, the Ministry of the Interior, has set up a system to receive migrants - regional assistance centres to help Ukraine over this - who managed to confiscate over 400,000 people arriving in the Czech Republic without people having to sleep on the street without those people being in financial or material distress. We managed to take care of these people in the Czech Republic and our system of managing the Ukrainian crisis was used by people from all over Europe. This is a definite success. There are many other challenges that concern Ukraine and which we will still be dealing with, but the government did it despite the unpopular emergency situation, but we had a clear management system and national coordination was given to the Ministry of the Interior. It was logical until the end of the emergency. The government has decided to leave the governing function there, and we are handling the Ukrainian crisis. An illegal migration has been mentioned here that we are not dealing with it. No, we don't just scare, we don't scare, we don't split up the company, but of course we do. Police of the Czech Republic also have a spectracular exercise at the Slovak border, where it closed borders, has increased supervision of border crossings, there are also random border checks, there have been increased police statuses in border areas, police president conducted negotiations with the Slovak police president. Next week, I have a meeting with the Slovak Interior Minister about readymises, that is, about returning to Slovakia, as they are supposed to work under international agreements. We have increased the capacity to manage refugee facilities, which, of course, was necessary. These people deserve a great compliment too, they are very exhausted by the Ukrainian crisis. They have certainly made it through this moment and we are trying to spread the burden by building so-called registration centres not only to the two most exposed regions that find themselves on the Slovak-Czech border. We have given the task and the services to map the routes in detail, we will have negotiations with the Ministry of Justice on tightening the punishment of smugglers so that the penalties are really deterrent and that these people realize how bad criminal activity they are doing at this time. Nor is it true, as we have heard here from Mr. former Prime Minister and current Member Babiš, that the V4 format does not work. I don't know where he got it. The V4 format works, of course, at least on the interior ministers' platform. We meet several times, we deal with the situation that concerns migration, we deal with border control situations, we cooperate with Hungary on the fact that our police contingent also helps to guard the border in Hungary, it is still extended, we have bilaterals, we have meetings of all four states, we invite Austria, we also apply the Slavkovsky format. We just do not look at V4 as a format to compete with the fact that, within Europe and negotiations, there is also another alliance, that I, of course, also deal with the countries of MED5, of course, with other countries that have some relation to the problems that we are dealing with, and we are trying to find a consensus as the Presidency country for the most important problems, which will ensure that Europe is a safe place at this turbulent time. Of course, the Ukrainian crisis is potentially bound by other secondary phenomena, and migration from other parts of the world can also be strengthened. Putin can embark on what Lukašenko has done - the instrumentalisation of migration, the abuse of migratory currents - and we must be prepared for all this in Europe. And we, as the presiding country, are completely fulfilling it, and the broad agenda of the one that fell upon us in this turbulent time, we are fully fulfilling it. I don't know where the former Prime Minister got this. Firefighters that deserve support - yes, firefighters, of course, also during the year we increase our budget and the government will discuss the reward of all firefighters, whether state, professional or voluntary, who intervened in Czech Switzerland and did a fantastic job there. Of course, the government will also discuss compensation for damaged technology, especially for voluntary firefighters in this area. That's natural. They did a great job. And this government, on the people who serve this country, protects it and protects the security of citizens, never forgets and forgets. After all, even a 10% increase in salaries to tariffs for all police officers, firefighters and soldiers from next January is clear evidence that we in any case see the importance of these files in the Ministry of the Interior, and we will always see. [[17,00 hours]] As far as intelligence is concerned, of course, I am not happy about this, and I would very much like us to find a head of intelligence in the course of days, for the longest of weeks, which will be beyond any doubt, which will stabilise the service that will be outside the media's attention, because that is what the service needs. And I appreciate the decision made by Director Mlejnek, who was led above all by the fact that the service was under enormous media pressure, which is not good for her. koneckonců all, even the meeting of the Security Committee was public. The address where the head of the Secret Service lives was published, and at this point, he really couldn't manage the service as such. At the moment of his selection, I followed the law and according to the information that I have legal access to, information from the security community - the NBU's clearance, NATO Secret's clearance, experience, references, routine selection. Having an ex post now if I knew what kind of perspective this service would get, whether it was right or not - well, of course the focus on the service as such isn't right, but Petr Mlejnek performed a very good professional management performance that month and a half at the head of the service. On the other hand, at this point, I consider his decision to be very reasonable for the service itself, and we will certainly proceed in the way we are to choose a new director as a government. We'll have all the information we're entitled to as legal addressees, and we'll hope that some black information doesn't appear in the media space. But we need a director who will, of course, give the service peace. And some words from Mr Okamura about who recommended Mr Mlejnek - I really don't want to hear about this anymore. I never knew pan Mlejnek, Mr Mlejnek recommended Jan Bartošek, with whom I spoke for the first time, then presented a vision of the development of this service, which by the way was definitely of good quality. And then I want to get to one thing, and don't worry, I'll be done soon. We're talking here about Andrej Babiš calling me - I don't think of the microphone today - as a representative of organized crime. By the way, I'd like to tell you that I've never seen a Mr. Zaki Nemrah as Mrs. Vildumetzová Mračková before in my life. Mr Dovhomilja, who according to the same information sources as the Prime Minister, which is the server List, was according to the same information sources - I have no other - at Mr Faltýnek's home, held seminars in the Chamber of Deputies with members of the ANO movement. Those are the facts I draw from public space. And what I'd like to say is that I've never seen Zaki before, I've never seen Mr. Dovhomilja, I've never seen Mr. Redl, I've never had a phone call on them, and the only person who's now being charged with the subsidy fraud organization I've been associated with was Andrej Babiš. That's his only touch with organized crime. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] I, of course, honor the presumption of innocence, but if a person who goes to court in 11 days for organizing a grant fraud, and this person who's never been prosecuted, investigated, and I don't know any of these people, he's talking about organized crime, it doesn't just seem incredible to me anymore, it seems awkward, really awkward. And another thing I'd like to read here as historically as well as public resources, 2005, Babiš, Krejčíř, is preparing some of their business, so here he will blame some third-grade wizard Redl. In 2017, Mr.Pitr: "Babiš and I were doing well. We didn't fight. Earth would be a better leader than Sobotka." Well, that's almost a pre-election password. And then there are some other things about Mr. Mrázek, when Mr. Babiš was supposed to say in 2003 that the police didn't work the way they should. Well, I hope the police never work the way Andrej Babiš would have wanted. And as long as I'm at the Home Office, the way it works is that the case, whether it concerns our movement or any other movement in this country, is just gonna be investigated. And I, as long as I have the support of the government, as long as I have the support of my prime minister, will continue the work that my team and I started at the Ministry of the Interior, that's in building a transparent, open office that doesn't fear, but that helps people in this country feel safe, that helps open public administration. And I think I'm going to apply these visions really consistently even though Andrej Babiš is afraid of me at the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u9	The next enrollment is President Alena Schillerová. Before that, I will read my apologies to Mr Šimon Heller, today from 17 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, to Mr Flek from 17 to 20 because of negotiations in the electoral region and Mr Klíma from 16 to 17.30, but in this case it is a reduction and revision of the apology. Thank you. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will split my speech in two tonight. First of all, I want to talk about the political level, the reasons why our club decided to call for a vote on the distrust of the unacceptable government of Petr Fiala. From the expression of government officials, one would almost get the impression that the resignation of Petr Mlejnek is forgotten and the government actually works well. It's not that, it's actually quite the opposite. Perhaps that is why, Prime Minister, your government is trusted by citizens from at least the whole of the European Union, namely you. Therefore, 97 percent of respondents do not trust your promises according to a survey of one of the business sites. In the second part, I will discuss your economic steps from the perspective of the former Minister of Finance, but mainly from the point of view of a person who has experience in solving an unprecedented medical crisis. Last week I had the opportunity to ride with Mr. Chairman Babiš, with Karel Havlíček, but also with other colleagues of the Moravian-Silesian Region. In those few days, we actually met thousands of people. We had a chance to have fun with hundreds of them, and I can say that I am extremely grateful for that. Feedback directly from people should basically be sacred to everyone's politics. And I have to say, I would recommend such trips especially to your government to see people in the regions. And I don't mean just to come somewhere, take a picture, and go back or meet my mates. I mean, you really talk to these people, you ask them about their stories, you listen to their daily worries. Maybe you'd talk differently. You might find that your Umbrella is nothing but marketing, but it's not really helping these people. These people feel perfectly justified that you have abandoned them, that you do not solve their problems, their price of energy, but that you only solve your own problems, your ministers' problems. The situation is really serious, and I say this very gently. I don't want it to feel too dramatic to be dumped in a few minutes by one of you as an ordinary opposition rhetoric. This is reality. I'm glad Minister Blažek got off here last week, and I appreciated it in plenary. I thank him for that, because I can see that at least someone in the government is aware of that. It is a pity that we do not hear these words from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and Trade, or preferably from the Prime Minister. I've often wondered if your attitude is not interested in people and companies or simply incompetence. Honestly, I don't know what's worse. [[17.10 hours]] Yesterday Minister Síkela finally started talking about helping companies. I'll remind you that until a few weeks ago, he was talking about not planning anything like this by the end of the year. This is a clear example of the fact that government action is not thought out. There's no strategy, it's chaos and confusion, and with a spray gun, the government always decides to put out a big fire with a huge delay. We have repeatedly called for assistance under the temporary crisis framework for several months. And so it always is, the help comes too late again. Businesses are falling because help has been zero so far. Every day I receive a text message from some company owner, restaurant owner in Prague 5 - backup 30,000, now 150 000, closes. The owner of the famous coffee shop on the National Class - I will not name - advances of 200,000, after almost thirty years considering closing. And so I could go on. Every day, every day I get them. Chef Madeta Teplý said publicly - I think it was on the land of the breadwinner - that he simply could no longer pay the energy. The baker's out, dozens of grocery stores closing. The food companies, the slaughterhouse, the restaurants. Glassworks interrupt production. Do you even know? You know that? And so I could go on. You put a domino in the first cube. It is already clear that what we have succeeded - we have not been without error, I will not be here without humility to beat in the breasts - to keep the lowest unemployment rate in the EU during the case, you will not be able to do so. Unfortunately for all of us. I'm not happy about this, even though I'm in opposition benches. The reason is that your government is simply reacting extremely late. Ministers are non-actionary, non-operative, and your actions with iron regularity come a few months later than our shadow government proposes. We offer repeated cooperation, but we are overlooked in this regard. I'm not complaining, I'm just summing it up and repeating it. Minister Síkela is not only being criticized by us as opposition, criticism comes from experts and from your coalition colleagues. And into all that, at a time when you should be the government of crisis managers, we have the never-ending problems of the STAN movement. I remember voting on trust in this government, you probably remember it wasn't that long ago. The negotiations were long, but all the members of the ANO movement spoke with factual speeches and had specific questions. Everyone, according to their expertise, responded to the programme statement and for a long time the ministers refused to answer it. Minister Jurečka cheered up the debate at the time, and I think you remember it, who spoke, but instead of replying, the opposition tried to make up for the words that they didn't want our votes, so let us not delay - paraphrase freely. In retrospect, I realize how symbolic this was. Arrogance has basically become synonymous with your government. There can't be any communication between the government and the opposition. I heard President Michálek, who said in one of the TV discussions that they, as opposition, came up with proposals and our government often took them into account. Yes, that's right, Mr. absentee colleague. I remember it in a pandemic. We have often listened to opposition. I am not saying that we have always done what she wanted, such as the ideas of President Pekarová Adamová, to compensate 100%. Well, we'd have a trillion of that deficit tonight. And that's the crucial difference between us. Our proposals are usually laughed at by the government, ridiculed, and a few months later, unfortunately, only some of them will be approached. Then he pretends them to be his, which we wouldn't mind, as long as he does. But late, but late! I remember, it's also running on networks now, I didn't bring it here, but maybe some of you saw it, Mr. Fiala's speech when he was the leader of the biggest opposition party. At that time, he was accusing our government that the aid was inadequate, that other countries were helping across the board, and we were not - to witness now that it is quite the opposite when it controls the government. And then at the meeting about trusting this government, there was another characteristic moment for this government. The meeting was adjourned, remember? Interrupted because there was a new case of the STAN movement. At that time it was a problem of financing the party - the unclear origin of money flowing through Cypriot companies. It was not the first post-election problem of STAN, and by far as we continued to witness, not even the last. Even then, we could all have realized that the government would be burdened with cases on a regular basis. After the outbreak of the Dozimeter case, we made a clear but legitimate request that Vít Rakušan finishes at the head of the interior resort. We did not require the STAN movement to end up in government, but if it turns out that influential members and co-workers are connected to the Mafia structures, they are in custody and are being investigated by the police, it is clear that the head of such a party cannot run a resort under which the police directly belong. And you can repeat it here forever, Mr. Secretary, the aftertaste in the citizens just stays, go ask them. Even if he's the most honest person in the world, he'll end up in that position just to make sure there's no doubt about the investigation. You didn't do it, Minister. And you have taken full responsibility by not solving the situation, Prime Minister - the responsibility for making us look like a banana republic. Even then, there were voices at our club that it was time to call for a vote on government distrust. Indeed, the reasons were too many, and this was not just about the corruption of the STAN movement. It was mainly about the way in which the government approached to help people, but also companies. At the time, we agreed with our colleagues that, in view of the beginning of the Czech Presidency, we do not want this shame to resonate abroad. We all had our first Presidency in mind. But it seems a little bit that Petr Fiala's government translated that word as some sort of blank check, immunity that they can turn off, partying during the Presidency, and opposition pretends not to be home. Steps to help people over the summer? Zero. Steps to help companies during the summer? Zero. But Minister Rakušan has appointed civilian intelligence to the forehead - I stress - a man who has admitted regular contacts with Michal Redl and worked outside the intelligence services for the last 12 years, his mistress is in business with a convicted person, and, as it turned out yesterday, a man who was somehow involved in another corruption case. Again, I must stress, we're talking about civilian intelligence. In addition to the fact that the director of any secret service should be absolutely indisputable, I consider it the biggest mistake that the Minister of the Interior had a lot of this information, but yet Mr Mlejnek proposed to the government. Plus, he himself claimed that there was a security screening. How is it possible, Minister, that what the journalists discovered within one month did not reveal the screening? Honestly, I find that hard to believe. Not to mention the recommendations you were supposed to have, which turned out to be not entirely true. I consider the whole thing an incredible failure. You basically discredited civilian intelligence not only in the eyes of the public, but also in the eyes of foreign partners. This in itself should be a reason for your resignation. But your meeting was covered by the government last week. Based on what? Based on an honest statement from a man who was also part of the Dosimeter case! Could it be even more absurd, I ask? We're witnessing some kind of panoptics! Can anyone really wonder that we're dealing with this government's mistrust here today? Once again, Interior Minister Vít Rakušan has destabilized the key secret service and thereby endangers the security of the entire Republic. And the whole thing was covered as fig leaf by the government, including Prime Minister Petr Fiala. [[17.20 hours]] Many times in recent weeks, I have been confronted with the question of journalists about why we call for a vote of mistrust when the result is known in advance, if it is not an unnecessary act, a waste of time. I must say that this question seems completely absurd to me. Firstly, in this logic, we would not have to take part in any vote. It wouldn't make sense to design any law, and we could actually please President Pekarová Adamová, get in the corner and shove her feet the way she wanted us to. The point of the opposition is that it has a minority, that the vote often loses. However, we still have a responsibility to our constituents. We can probably guess the result, we all know how to count to 108, but we've all certainly met in politics, too, that some vote has turned out differently than we expected. Each Member has a conscience and a responsibility to the people who voted for him in the elections. And this vote has one very specific feature. Each of us will have to stand up at the end of the day and after all the arguments that will be raised here, after all these cases, everyone will have to say clearly: for the proposal or against the proposal. In other words, every MP will have to say clearly whether, after all, Petr Fiala's government still has his confidence, whether his trust is in Vít Rakušan, whose movement is prosecuting a scandal behind a scandal and which threatens the security of the Czech Republic with its bad decisions, whether his confidence is in the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, who clearly does not know about this current situation of the Council. That he overslept, he reacts to everything with a few months' delay, but his colleagues from the coalition are already saying publicly. And most importantly, if Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself has their trust, who takes all this into account with stoic tranquility. But that is far from the only reason why our MP wants to express his distrust of your government. When I look at your programming statements as shadow secretary, I find that this is nothing more than a useless document from which you do nothing at all. I'll start with a description - I assume you understand - of the public finances that are closest to me. One of the first steps taken by the new government coalition was to bring us into the longest budget commission in the history of this republic. With this budgetary commission, the government's five-wheelers put the entire public sphere into a period when it was not clear what they were and what they were not funding for, what they could count on and what they could not count on. Already mentioned in the five-calice government's programming statement, I quote: "The progress of the state must be predictable for entrepreneurs and citizens." Of course, this budgetary provisional had absolutely nothing to do with predictability. Already at this time, as a result of inflation, over CZK 62 billion fell into the government's lap - when the first budget, the current budget, still valid, was approved - on the revenue side of the state budget. On the expenditure side of the state budget followed blunt marketing cuts. I considered the reduction in investment by 15 billion to be a major cut. Investment is an area that will not be seen until the future, we invest mainly for our children. In the Health Department, spending from 24 to 18 billion was again stupidly cut. But I have long considered the most insane cuts myself, but also the lay and professional public, as well as the President of the Republic to reduce payments for state insured people. For this crucial cut, which, as a result, threatens the quality and availability of health care that we fought for last week, but the five-wheelers pushed this dangerous cut to the strength of their 100-millimeter. I have explained that no savings are involved several times, and I still stand by it. Another 9 billion crowns of five koalice were cut on salaries in times of extraordinary inflation, on the salaries of public employees, which, of course, are police officers, firemen, who were raised - yes, you will definitely fix me - 700 CZK. That's really for thanking them for all the hits. Labour offices, Czech Social Security Administration, cleaners, schoolchildren, non-edagogues, without which no school can function, these were the consequences of these cuts. Of course I didn't name them all. Writers - zero. So, of course, the real wage is falling. And that's how I could continue the item by item. We'll recap once there's an amendment to the State Budget Act. But really, five-calice, and now, listen, she cut the budget spending by 34 billion. No 100 billion, as they try to tell us, and because of the 34 billion blunt cuts, we had the longest budget commission in the history of the Czech Republic. The arrogance in this government coalition was already quite clear at this time, not to mention that from the first moment it was clear that the budget presented, and I have also repeatedly said it here in plenary, will have to be amended. To me, it was a piece of paper when the five-calibers voted on it, I mean, the first budget. [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] It was clear that the deficit would be much, much higher. The current amendment to the state budget approved by the government and sent here to the Chamber of Deputies, which I am counting on immediately, in a very short period of time, is counting on revenue higher by 127.2 billion than it was in our original draft budget, but there is still a deficit of 330 billion in this budget! And we'll talk about that in a few moments - today the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of Zbyněk Stanjura, sent a draft budget for 2023 to the government. Also a big baggallery, in a minute. Mr. absent Minister Stanjur, where is the budgetary responsibility you had full mouth before the election? Where's the consolidation? Where are the reforms that will lead to reductions and even gradual ones? I understand you're in a difficult crisis, we've been in a difficult crisis, too. But where are some proposed reforms? Unlike you, in 2020, we were in a situation where the economy fell minus 5.5 percent of GDP. You are still in a situation, despite all these problems, that the economy is growing, and with inflation of 17.5 percent, which is the fourth highest in the European Union, you have above-standard incomes, basically falling into your lap. And the better result, a moment ago, I was commenting on the cash flow, the current five-calice is achieved solely by increasing revenue. Today's figures: deficit 231.1 billion, revenue - there's 99.1 billion more, spending about 66.9. So it's obvious. In addition, at this time, just a year ago, we put around 57 billion more in covido aid to companies and social services, which are also needed, was 6.4 billion more. So that's the way it is with the budgetary responsibility, with the consolidation. [[17.30 hours]] And Prime Minister, you were talking about the government sector's debt at the end of 2021. Yes, it was 2 trillion 567 billion and so on. And now I'm going to read you the number that's traceable in the Ministry of Finance's materials today on the website, how much are you planning in 2022: 2 trillion 882 billion, just for comparison. And if you still want it to be converted into a percentage of GDP, by the end of 2021, it was 41.9 percent of GDP, and by the end of 2022 it would be 42.4, and it would fall into your lap of above-standard income. The Ministry of Finance sent a budget for the government with a deficit of 270 billion for 2023, so 280, 330, 270 and revenues are about over 136 billion. So, of course, we're going to have a very detailed debate about this. Even about that, I already have individual chapters covered here, I've already got our budget covered. Then the differences to the current budget for the amendment and I'll show you the minuses of how you take transport, health care, and so on I could continue. I've already got it in black and white. Of course, the government will judge this during September, so we will see what eventually comes out of the government and comes here to the Chamber of Deputies. So I think clearly this five-calice government has deceived its constituents in the election campaign and is using the complexity and indiscretion of a budget process in which everyone doesn't orient themselves, to further broadcast false and false information. Even five koalice takes political decisions, which completely wasted the state budget by billions of crowns. Yes, I'm talking about canceling the EET. You were saying something about the businessmen wanting it that way - well, they don't. Yesterday was the budget committee. I'm a member of the Budget Committee, Vice-President. The Minister doesn't go there stable, he wasn't there yesterday, I think the Minister of Finance, so the debate with the officials was limited, of course, because I won't kick the officials and I won't lead the political debate with them, they follow the instructions on the basis of a political assignment, whether he's a minister or one. But the representatives of the Business Unions and Chambers came. We were always communicating when we were preparing covido help, never ignoring them. Today they are complaining about non-communication, such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade. But I'm going back to EET. They got out there, I don't know, a representative of the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, they got out of the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, even though they specialized in the tax package, and they clearly said, "Don't cancel EET, it's an important project." Entrepreneurs got used to it, leveled the business environment. So if you don't need the 13 billion, you guys are so cool that you'd rather take care of health care, at least hear the voices of the representatives of the Unions and the Chambers, they're the representatives of businessmen. I was talking to Mr. Kastner, who couldn't come yesterday because he's dealing with energy for restaurants, but of course he has the same opinion. He owns several restaurants, he's the vice president of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. Mr. Březina, who performed there yesterday, the head of the Association of Traditional Czech Trade, even said: We are not voters of ANO. Most of our members are five-calice voters, the coalition of the SPOLU. Yet we say to you, "Don't do it. At least let him volunteer, don't disturb the EET. And what I'm saying is that this is a unique digital project, since you're trying so hard to digitize what your representatives here were talking about - I think it was the Prime Minister. I mean, I put hard numbers in there yesterday. I was talking about how much leakage was percentage after the introduction of the first and then the second wave - the first one was crucial because accommodation and catering services were not identified, what was the increase, or the reduction of the grey economy - these are the numbers of the Czech Statistical Office - as the average wage increased. Is it normal that before the introduction of the EET, the average food wage was half the average median wage then in the economy? Does that seem normal to you? Do you have a normal explanation for that rather than the fact that part of the money was on hand? And after a year of introduction, we were twice that. Of course, the status of those employees has improved. It had an impact on their pensions, it had an impact on, for example, their wanting to take credit, mortgage, and so on. EET did not only have an impact on income tax, but it was reflected positively in all taxes, social insurance, and, of course, in some awareness that paying taxes is normal. A flagrant violation of election promises can also be monitored in other areas of public finances. The promise of non-tax increases will be broken, even in a way where Zbyněk Stanjura, a supposed right-wing politician, has been presenting himself for years, talking about undeserved profits, when this minister threatens individual sectors that there are no limits, and no one can be sure. That's the predictable thing, remember when I talked about her a while ago, how predictable there is in the government's financial programming statement, in the tax field? That's where we see it. So she's completely gone, she's not there. And you can't just hide it in a crisis. We were in a crisis, too, and we cut taxes, remember? We even canceled a super gross wage together with the ODS. You haven't forgotten, have you? And it helped the employees back then, 7 percent of the net are left with wages, making them have savings today, and somehow they survive it, but they get worse and worse. Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies Markéta Pekarová Adamová has in addition to excellent ideas that we should start wearing more sweaters, which she told me in the Partia debate about 14 days ago or possibly bought knitting needles, so she also proposes privatisation of state enterprises. And in an interview with my colleague, Vice-President Skopeček, there I noticed an attempt, an opinion on the introduction of health fees. And so I could go on. I will remind you that this year the state has collected in taxes including insurance - and I will now say the current present amount, which, of course, results from the MF's cash flow - by CZK 91.1 billion extra. The state-owned ČEZ will have a profit of around 90 billion somewhere. At the same time, revenues are growing in companies owned by, for example, Budvar or Forests of the Czech Republic, about 4 billion. There is money from the EU - Mr Babiš spoke of it, and I could continue this way. When I look at your government's programming statement, basically the only point you've fulfilled is the flat-rate tax and the mandatory VAT registration, when it actually rises to 2 million turnovers, but for the most part you've taken this project from us, almost finished. However, by introducing three flat-rate tax zones, you have made this system extremely difficult. Yesterday we had quite a debate about this on the Committee on Budgets and we will try to draw up an amendment as an YES movement. I work in this regard with the Chamber of Tax Advisors, an income tax expert, Mr. Nesrovnal, who is apolitical, he is an expert in order to reach out to something that will not make this great institute, which is still up to CZK 1 million - and who I have spoken to, who is using it, so he praises it - which does not make it a completely dead instrument. Wrong again. We wanted to help the little ones. You guys have often talked about this from the ODS desks, so they're not burdened with checks, so they're not burdened with filing tax returns and reporting. This is exactly the instrument that you have now completely, at least what the Ministry of Finance has sent, or the government has already agreed to the Chamber of Deputies, completely messed up. [[17.40 hours]] The majority of points in the government's financial statements are not addressed by the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. For example, we do not see any improvement in preventing tax evasion. What instrument did you accept? We have introduced a number of things - the control of transfer prices and so on among connected persons, we have introduced special teams that are dedicated to this. What did you do for it? Like the issue of the foreign dividend flow, there was no elimination of systemic tax exemptions, the reduction of social security contributions is not at all on the table, you have it in the government's programming statement - you know that? The promised tax brake rule -- you know, I consider this nonsense, the tax brake rule, but you haven't even tried to have a discussion since you've already written this nonsense down. The debate on budgetary responsibility rules was not open at all, and we were ready. We're ready to talk about this matter-of-fact, constructively, but there's no such thing. So in the area of public finances, when the grade was introduced nicely, the Minister of Transport got an A, so in the area of public finances I'll give this government a clean five! [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] And now probably the biggest problem that the Czech households are facing today - inflation, i.e. growth in the consumer price index. If I remember correctly - and it's already happened here today - on your election campaign, it was in the spirit of "Babišův's precious." I remember the debate of the leaders in the South Moravian Region in Brno, where he used it then, I think that the chairman of the then ODS and chairman of the opposition largest club, today the Prime Minister, said for the first time, used it, or heard it there for the first time. So in this populist way - you often like to say that we are populists, this was total and pure populism - you presented imported inflation to the Czech Republic. Do you know how old she was when we left? 5.4, average a little over 4 percent when our government ended, but it's still to blame. If it was Babišův's precious thing to you back then, how expensive is it now? We've never used the terminus tech "Fial's precious" before. You'll never hear it from us because we know it's stupid. So I repeat again - even experts who had different opinions admit that, for the most part - sometimes they argue, I listen to what goes on when I have the time, the opinions of economists, I read them - sometimes they say from two thirds, sometimes they say from half, but of course everyone now admits, even those who previously said that it was not, that it was actually our fiscal expansion, so it is largely - and we can have fun, two thirds, half - imported. But the fundamental problem is that you are doing absolutely nothing about this inflation, that you are not trying to mitigate the increase in consumer prices and the effects of this increase. According to the latest data, I believe that last week, published by Eurostat in July 2022, the Czech Republic has the largest level of consumer inflation in the Baltic countries, measured by the harmonised index of consumer prices from all countries of the European Union. Only countries that were historically part of the Soviet Union, namely Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, recorded higher inflation rates than we did - quarters of that amount - higher inflation rates. All of these countries have inflation above 20 percent, so we want to get to this level? Dear colleagues, the average inflation rate across the EU is 9.8%. According to Eurostat, the Czech Republic has 17.3. This is a fundamental difference for the average Czech household. Moreover, the inflation rate, which is crucial to us, and the rate that we follow in the Czech Republic, is the rate reported by the Czech SAO, which, unlike Eurostat, also quantifys the so-called imputed rent, i.e. simply speaking, own housing. Therefore, according to the calculation of the CZSO, the current inflation rate is even higher, the last figure is 17.5 percent. And if you've read the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic prediction, published a week ago, I think that's where average inflation is expected this year about 16.3, which means we're going to be doing 20 percent in the rest of the year. This is unbelievable. The numbers are, of course, on the Ministry of Finance's website. These figures, however, have real and profound impacts on Czech households and companies. Citizens who are to be taken care of by the government in times of crisis have a significant problem with paying electricity bills, gas, food, fuel, work fare, purchasing school supplies for a new school year, or pensioners have noticeable problems with the purchase of medicines. Go between them, you'll hear it. The decline in real wages for 2022 is 7,6 percent and we will also be poor for the following year. People are scared of the coming period, they have lost confidence in this government, and they are losing confidence in this state. When I was standing in Opava, which was almost full, I asked when I spoke briefly to the people, so I asked you whether the finance minister who lives here had come to you, so he actually has it behind the beech, and he explained his steps to you, explained why he was going one way or another? You don't want to hear what I've heard, and all sorts of stories from when he was the mayor of Opava. He never came. Never! Why? There's nothing to it. There's a social media poster -- nice citizens, I'll come between you, I'm one of you, I live here, I'll explain to you the steps of our government. There's nothing to be afraid of, there's no need to meet only isolated from fellow partymates. Go to the people. Go to people like us. We hear something unpleasant sometimes, why not, that's just part of it. There were 1,200 people in Ostrava-Poruba by police numbers, as the police told us. 1,200 people! The incredible emotions I felt after this ride by the Moravian-Silesian Region - Havířov, Opava, and I can also name other cities, incredible, Orlová. And you hear those stories when your mother, who has a six-month-old child, is a single person, she says, "I have to go to work, I can't support him." When the seniors tell you how much they cost, how much pension they have, and that the difference is, like, 100 crowns, and if they don't work... But each of them can't work, or they didn't have good kids helping them, so they just get into trouble. Firms - you know how much I got, and I don't want to brag about it here, I was rather moved by how many entrepreneurs, the most businessmen, the self-employed, thank you for organizing it quickly - and finally voted for it by the entire former Chamber of Deputies - a compensatory bonus for getting the money quickly. Donation programs - I know that sometimes it got stuck, that sometimes we had to edit it, but it was a thing that nobody ever did, and who does nothing, doesn't mess anything up, but I've always - and I've been to all those meetings with Karel Havlíček - when we called a representative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, Chambers of Commerce, Chambers of Tax Advisors and so on, I guess I've forgotten someone now - and we've been discussing. I, every institute prepared by the Ministry of Finance - and they were complex instruments, I mentioned the compensatory bonus, it was loans from the state guarantee, it was a moratorium, when we postponed loans and mortgages for six months and so on - it was all new things and I always consulted them with the professional apparatus, with the Banking Association and so on, and we listened, we were looking for a compromise. This just can't be done at the table at the Treasury or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it can't be done without communication. You don't communicate. Everyone complains about it, especially when I talk about the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but of course I'll leave it to my honored colleague Karel Havlíček. [[17.50 hours]] Acceleration - and you all perceive it, you hear it from people, eventually Minister Blažek said it here last week. He said: It is so, I am also among the people, also those people tell me, I warn you that there is a great social storm going on here. We don't participate, and you won't find any of us to publicly support the demonstrations. You won't find any evidence to make any of my colleagues... ever affect people: We're not participating. Now it's going to be 3. 9. I won't go there, even though I've been invited from many sides. But, of course, this is something you do for yourself. Despite the big crisis, we managed - and it was not easy, we faced huge criticisms from your side and from different sides that it was little, and even more and so on, so that during - I don't know - we heard this wave of magic: You gave much, you didn't give, you just turned it around, you spilled it from the helicopter. Take your pick. Or the only reason you changed your mind was government jerseys, otherwise I can't explain it. Once again, I have the most recent July food-expensive numbers. I have this place on a regular basis, but now I have an update. Growth in meat prices by 21.7 %, oils and fats 53,4 %, curds by 20,5 %, flour prices 64.1 %, bread by 29,9 %, semi-fat milk by 40 and so on. Today we're about... I have a comparison here, how much did it cost at the time, how much now, but we all see that every day in the shops, and so where are we going? That a roll is gonna cost 20 kroner? That there's just gonna be trouble here? People are saving up these days, the seniors are telling us that they're saving up a lot of food. Sellers say it's down to sales. Of course it has some inertia, it is not from day to day that it will manifest itself at some time, that they still have a large majority of them some reserves from the time of the covid, when there was nothing to spend on, and we reduced taxes including the abolition of super gross wages, which was the biggest tax reduction. This is an unprecedented increase in household costs that these households feel every day when buying, and you have to work with it, you have to take that into account. Today, however, energy prices are still the most discussed. We know how much they've gone up -- we're happy to hear that they've fallen, but it doesn't matter if it's not a drop that's gonna help... Karel Havlíček will be very detailed about this, I don't want to take it away from him, but what do we say for months? Let's put a stop to energy prices. Minister Blažek said here last week: Yes, I hear from colleagues that it is not possible, that it is a legal problem, and he said very correctly - he spoke to me from the soul, I also commended him here because I have always treated it the same way, he said: There is no such thing for me that it cannot, just must meet experts. And that's what we say, and that's how we've always acted - I certainly, Karel Havlíček, all the key ministers. Lawyers, economists, energy experts need to meet, and they'll just figure it out. I have heard the Prime Minister on Czech Television say several times, Prime Minister Fiala, that this is a bad road and that we will not go down that road - so that we can see solemnly that the Prime Minister has finally stated that they are heading towards a ceiling on energy prices. Late again, late again. The European Council is up to the next - on the ninth, I believe - week. Why wasn't she summoned long ago? I know the debates at the European Council as Secretary of Finance, this is the ECOFIN Council, it is always very difficult, and, Prime Minister, I hope you have noticed - I certainly noticed, I will not bring you down here, you have spoken about it in your speech - that we are chairing the European Union, so you should have initiated this hearing a long time ago! Today we can no longer wait for the European Union, we must proceed to immediate solutions. I heard, I think Minister Jurečka - if I'm wrong, I'm sorry - in public space he said, "Well, if it doesn't work out, then we'll prepare a national solution, or if Minister Síkela said so?" Too late! Farif - why is most economic, economical tariff paid or minority, the smaller part, paid as approved by the government last week, this year? Now there are problems, 2,000 plus renewables, some are a few hundred, of course up to 2,000, and the larger part is next year to read yesterday that STAN is proposing to put more money there this year, but the government approved something last week. Is that normal? Definitely not for me. Andrej Babiš said that the negotiations on the removal of gas prices for electricity prices were dealt with at the EU summit this year in March, and it did not do anything. Your strategy of waiting, doing nothing, and hoping that someone in this republic will survive is very, very bad. We are not just criticizing you, we are proposing a whole range of solutions here: ceiling, temporary - sorry - VAT on energy, fuel, increased assistance to pensioners, Czech households, companies. How many things have we designed here, sent them as an MP's proposal, and you threw them off the table to approach them? We suggested: increase life minimum by 20 percent, so you did it with a salami method - at least by 10, then by 9. Why? They're the most needed, you say you care about them the most. Yesterday you approved an increase in the mobility allowance. Maybe talk to those wheelchairs or sick people. They also go to those meetings. We have a proposal proposed by the MP, your government has rejected it, we will try again to include it in this House's meeting, from 550 to 2,000. You approved at 900. Have you ever spoken to these people? Have you spoken to the representatives of the professional associations representing them? They're the most vulnerable. You're saving up on them? Our government responded to the sharp increase in energy prices in the world markets even when it was here - we were here by 17 December 2021 - with the general pardon of value added tax for November and December. I was criticized for that, humiliated by the Treasury Secretary Stanjura. However, for example, the renowned Bruegel Institute, which said that our energy aid was the second worst in the European Union, included this remission in its statement. Various associations and associations - I have read an open letter today, I have not yet read it - representing the Czech industry and services appeal and stress to the government of Petr Fiala to introduce a temporary crisis framework approved by the European Commission throughout the EU. Because the situation isn't just serious anymore, she's critical. If Petr Fiala's government is merely attempting an EU-wide solution, this process will be complex and time-consuming. The rapid and effective solution that will be adopted at national level does not prevent parallel negotiations at European level at all, and we are ready for any cooperation, regardless of the fact that the government, which I said a moment ago, should have held these negotiations long ago. The non-communication of the government and the non-solving of aid in the context of the energy crisis are causing a significant panic among entrepreneurs, I have already talked about it. For example, the Association of Hotels - and this is also traceable in public resources - and the restaurants set an example of a tenfold increase in electricity prices. At the same time, this Association calls the current environment the liquidation of business, which the government ignores without a clear and rapid response. In this situation, the five coalitions will be responsible for the consequences that will be liquidation for a number of establishments, fabric, employees, and it will also have an impact on public budgets. [[18.00 hours]] Allow me to say one last sentence. This government still has the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies, and judging by all the statements after today, it will. But you've lost people's trust a long time ago, and you should be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Have a nice evening, co-workers, colleagues. Minister Vlastimil Válek is now registered. The President of the Radim Fiala Parliamentary Club may be ready. And in the meantime, I'm going to read an apology that's run out. He apologizes to Secretary Helena Langšádlová today between the 18th and 20th hours for work reasons. I'll ask for some peace in the courtroom for a dignified hearing. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, before I say what I have in mind and what I have prepared, let me ask for a procedural proposal, in agreement with all the Members' clubs, on the agenda and on the vote after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. I therefore submit this procedural proposal, which is in agreement with all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u13	Roger that, I'll go for it. I have engaged, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to the ballroom so that we can proceed to this vote, which will take place immediately. Yes, I'm signing you off. Please log in with your ID cards again. I think that whoever wanted to come came, or we will vote on a procedural proposal so that we can vote and act after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. Everybody knows... please? After 21st and 24th, that's right. We can therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who is voting for this draft procedure after 19th, 21st and 24th hours? Who's against it? In voting number 2, 109 Members voted in favour of 107, against 0, or this procedural proposal was adopted. Thank you and I give you my word back, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Let me do one more slightly informal thing, which is why I would like to address ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, my friends. I'm now almost the ninth month in Petr Fiala's government. Petr Fiala is my former rector. As rector, he was an excellent boss, and he moved the university enormously. As it turned out, there must be something to see behind a guy, there's at least a Masaryk University campus behind him. And it's Petr's birthday today, so let me say it's an extraordinary meeting to wish him a happy birthday. He's a man I respect, and Petr... [[He turns to the Prime Minister, and his cries die in applause. Claps the whole hall, five-wheelers standing up. The Prime Minister bows and thanks.]] And now, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, allow me to say a few words about this meeting and what the Ministry of Health has done in nine months and what my opinion is as Minister of Health and Vice Prime Minister of this Government. I understand that the opposition is calling a meeting of distrust to the government, and I completely understand why a meeting like this calls a motion of the SPD. It's quite logical. The party is close to Russia, close to the Kremlin, does not like the European Union, and it is quite clear why it calls this meeting. I am sorry in the case of the YES movement, because I come before you during the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union just a few days before the meeting of the European Union Health Ministers, which awaits me next week. There will be an absolutely unique meeting of ministers of health of the countries of the European Union and we will discuss matters important to all citizens of the Czech Republic, including us sitting here. We will talk about the availability of central treatment, we will talk about making expensive medicines available in countries like the Czech Republic as quickly as throughout Europe. We'll talk about the availability of clinical trials. We will propose new screening programs in the case of prostate cancer. We're gonna talk about changing the vaccine contracts. We will talk about how to move health in the European Union further, and I think this is not a political issue, it is a professional matter. I was hoping to have some room to prepare for this meeting. I understand that this is more important than the European Union. As for the reason for calling the meeting, let us now leave aside that the Director of Intelligence has resigned, new reasons have emerged. The party can also leave some contradiction in the fact that colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement are offended by contact with the criminally prosecuted businessman Redl and the accused businessman Babiš at their head does not mind them. But that's every single one of you's business. However, the fact that you, honourable opposition Members, are willing to follow the example of Jiří Paroubek in his footsteps cannot be left behind, to seek to overthrow the government during the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union and risk the embarrassment of all of us, the shame of the Czech Republic, especially in the present very difficult geopolitical and energy situation, when the crisis is closing us from all sides. It's disappointing to me, and I feel like you don't care about our country. And I am so sorry that I appreciate many of you both professionally and humanly. I never hesitated to commend, never to hesitate to be helpful. I understand that you're opposition, I don't understand that you're willing to lend yourself to something like today's meeting, regardless of the fact that you're going to do it with the "deluge after us or we're going to knock down the government and then we'll see." In the four years of your government, held by the Communists, you have significantly hacked into parliamentary democracy, the independence of justice, and the fair state. I'd just like to remind the court's verdict on former Deputy Minister of Health, Tom Philipp. Thank you for having two deputies today, and it's your fault that the court has made it clear that how they were carried out under your government as ministers was against the law. I was blamed here for firing the director of the hospital, for making a tender for the hospital director and firing the director, the former Prime Minister said. So he fired all the hospital directors in four years, replaced them all - I was the only director I fired, that was Professor Arenberger's director. Well, if that's the director you're fighting for, then you've issued your own card. [[Let's hear it for members of the government coalition.]] Today's meeting has one positive aspect. It is followed by citizens and the media, and our government has a chance to pay public bills for eight, practically nine months of governance. We faced many challenges. Not only the old ones, when we must put out problems caused by the previous government, but also new ones, especially in the form of war in Ukraine and the resulting problems. As Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Health and a truly proud member of this government, I say we have nothing to be ashamed of. [[18.10 hours]] Now I'm going to move on to what we've prepared in the Department of Health for the last 258 days, dragged it and set it up. I would like to begin by thanking all the employees of the Ministry of Health. I want to thank them for the great work they're doing. They're not just Deputys, but they're union directors, they're individual department heads and reporters. They're really doing their best to keep up the situation, to do an excellent job, the ministry is working like a well-oiled machine today, and I'm honored to be able to lead it. You know that, you who are members of the Health Committee, of course you know that. Many of you regularly attend health committees, many of you regularly meet them, and both coalition members and opposition members will undoubtedly confirm that they are always well prepared and competently explain our actions. Thank you, colleagues. You also know this because I have fulfilled what I have promised that I want both opposition and coalition MPs and senators to travel with me on foreign trips and we have been able to discuss this issue comprehensively with colleagues from parliaments and chambers from other countries, together with the governments of these countries. I am glad that we do not have the same views on professional matters - progress in medicine is possible only if we do not have the same views, if we are discussing them, if we are presenting facts and we are looking at one thing, to improve the availability and quality of healthcare. And I'm glad if we're talking between the four eyes -- eyes -- long live Moravia -- that all those on the health committee are seriously discussing this. [[Repair from the diaper]] I'm even more sorry about this meeting. Now allow me to move on to the activities and achievements of the Ministry of Health in those less than nine months from the start. I will start with three basic topics, which is covid, Ukraine and the Czech Presidency. Our government started at the time when the variant of coronavirus delta and omicron was culminating. Omicron was approaching, he was at the door, and he got on in January. Under my leadership, basically, access to pandemic management has changed. Instead of political quarrels, incompetent interventions and chaotic decision-making, the Ministry proceeded to manage the epidemic on the basis of advice from experts. I have set up the National Institute for pandemic management, there are experts with different opinions, but they can discuss and reach conclusions. They shall then submit these opinions to the central management team together with the expert apparatus. Politicians are entering the process at least, not trying to use it in media terms, and new measures were announced primarily after government negotiations at the moment of professional and political agreement. Compare it to the previous approach, touch your conscience, remember how it went. Clearly, clearly and naturally, we always say what awaits us. No chaotic measures announced on Twitter or in obscure videos. No hey guys! where we'd have to change our minds the next day because we forgot to ask the experts. Remember, there was chaos going on with closing restaurants. Remember the fall of 2020. I know, it's a long time ago, memory's short, but that's the month that Minister Vojtěch ended up, and I never criticized him here, and I repeatedly said, "That wasn't a bad minister." And why did he quit? Because he wasn't able to reason with the Prime Minister whether the drapes in the schools did or didn't - on Mondays the drapes did, not on Tuesdays. It is perhaps good news that we no longer hear from the Prime Minister's mouth a sentence, such as in September of that year - I wonder what came out of the ministry, that said here, turn on the record. Unfortunately, this is how the Prime Minister spoke of his minister from the same side. Then, after he had replaced the crowd of variously drawn ministers, he humbly returned to him. Our government doesn't have to ask who came and didn't come. [[Let's hear it for the members of the coalition.]] Our task was and is to find common ground and solutions with experts whose trust we gained. Yes, we don't have to have exactly the same opinions about solving problems, there's not always one way to go, but we have to discuss these trips, and not messy change them, once hot, once naked. Experts provide competent opinions not only on the ongoing epidemic and on how to deal with it, and plan on how to proceed. The negotiations are not always simple, but that is precisely the principle of how similar crises are dealt with. While the previous period was full of political wars, and unnecessary wars among experts, most now sit behind one desk and the debate is cultivated. And that's what I'll always try to do. During the omicron wave, we were in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry and Trade, and I thank them very much for this, introducing massive testing in companies. This, together with vaccinations due to low virulence and testing in schools, has proven to have slowed the omicron wave so that we managed it without overloaded hospitals, lockdowns, school closures, children could go to the mountains and not shut down the company or the economy. Together with this, we quickly put in place eIncapacity as an automatic service, which helped employers when they had their employees infected. When I joined the Ministry of Health, I said that I would not make any hasty political decisions that would lead to the closure of the company, but, on the contrary, that I would listen to the recommendations of the experts and cancel the measures as soon as possible from a technical point of view. You can criticize me all you want, but I've done this and I've done it, as well as abolishing this senseless and unenforceable mandatory vaccination and that decree. I promised, I did it. Find one thing I promised and didn't, and I'll apologize. Our government relied on access to the epidemic and relied on the personal responsibility of citizens. Yes, that's why we were on Wenceslas in 1989, so we were shaking keys, we wanted freedom, we wanted democracy and it included personal responsibility. A part of democracy is also the possibility of making mistakes - the state must be prepared to help, but must not prohibit people from being free. [[Let's hear it for the coalition.]] Was it a mistake? Some opposition MPs have been blaming me, remember the end of last year. Remember when I said what measures will be for New Year's Silvestr. Remember when I didn't want to close everything on New Year's Silvestr. Did something happen? I trusted people, and it wasn't a mistake. We abolished all measures in several waves during February, March and April. Yes, I had to have a very difficult debate about the pandemic law. Did I abuse the pandemic law? Did I do something wrong with the pandemic law? Try telling me one thing. I did what I said, and all those who shouted at me in the Senate or in the Chamber of Deputies lied. Have I ever used a pandemic law to tyranny? Never! And what did I do, how did it go? I suggested we end the pandemic emergency. We have begun legislative work to make regional sanitation stations more effective under the state health service so that the future is clear in the concept of managing health crises throughout the Republic. This also involves a more appropriate definition of the competence of the State Health Institute in order to make it a health institute of Western cut. And yes, yes, I am here to join what she has proposed, through Madam President, Mrs Adámková, Mr Špičák and others - we must gradually build something close to the Kochův Institute, and we will fully agree on this. What changed fundamentally was the cooperation of individual ministries. We work very well together and I dare say that other ministers are not my political competitors, but my friends. We are working with the Minister of the Interior on a new legislation that will address similar situations, and we will present it to the Chamber of Deputies as promised, so that no more emergency measures need to be interrupted by the administrative court over and over again. [[18.20 hours]] We have taken over the system of smart quarantine from the Army of the Czech Republic within three months without needing additional staff, thus creating a National System for Health Threat Management. Of course, the central management team will continue to meet. In cooperation with experts, of course, we are ready for the fall wave, the vaccination campaign will spread, today the EMA approved the modified vaccines and I negotiated that we will always get the last types of vaccines. If these substances are approved by the Commission, they will be in the Czech Republic within 14 days. Inoculation is the only way to prevent serious disease and death. All data, even from the current coronavirus wave of the last three months, clearly tells us that. Of course, it's everyone's choice whether they're inoculated or not, but I really recommend it to all those who are seniors who have comorbidities, to all those who are at high risk. It's the best way to protect yourself. But I'll never order anyone to do that. Of course, we've secured enough medicinal resources, including Paxlovid. Yeah, I've been getting it over and over again, how it's gonna be with Paxlud, that I'm not doing anything about it. I have acted intensively for six months and the result is that we have a contract for the amount of Paxlovid that will be needed - we have no upper limit there and cannot happen under this agreement what happened with monoclonal antibodies, that what we do not consume, we will have to pay, that is, the 14 billion health insurance companies, 1.5 billion for the monoclonal antibodies that insurance companies pay and they must be paid by the Ministry of Health, and so I could continue, but I have repeatedly explained this here and it is carrying wood into the woods - exactly as much Paxlovid as our sick people will need. And what we need to do as the Chamber of Deputies, in order to treat this drug with legislation as quickly as possible, in order to get into the last pharmacy - either by changing the law that lies here, and we are not discussing it because we have other more important things, such as the appeal of the government, or I will look for another way. I consider this a priority, that is my role as Minister of Health. We will not have to pay excess, but we will pay for what we consume, and we will get it to our citizens. At this point, I would like to thank both NAKITu and the army, UHISu, the State Health Institute, SÚKLu, hospitals and of course all health professionals. Just cooperation, really intense teamwork across all those experts led to success. Thank you so much for that. After coronavirus, the Ministry of Health and the Government as a whole had to deal with another challenge. On February 24, the Russian dictator went crazy and started another war in Europe. For decades, we have returned to the situation experienced by our grandparents, and Russia is brutally and unfairly attacking Ukraine. This is nothing but an invasion, a normal invasion - one free country without warning attacked another country. Call it whatever you want, but it's just an invasion. Adolf Hitler did the same thing before. Tens of thousands of people have fallen victim to this invasion in the coming months, leading to the largest refugee wave in the short history of our republic. When citizens to the West fled the Czech Republic from communism in 1969, they were not migrants, they were refugees. It offends me when someone calls Ukrainian refugees migrants. It's not the same. Either it's ignorance, then I recommend Wikipedia or the definition of the UN, or it's purpose. The Czech government and citizens were not frightened. They did not expect what others would do, but they set an example for the whole world. The government, citizens and the non-profit sector have taken up an unprecedented wave of support. Last week, for example, an incredible 1.3 billion from 145,000 donors gathered at the expense of the Ukrainian Embassy. The funds are sent by Man in Need, Memory of the Nation and other organizations. While refugees were flowing into the Czech Republic - mainly women and children, they are seniors - financial and material aid of all kinds took place in the direction of Ukraine. The Czech government, the army, citizens, individual ministries, nonprofit organizations - everyone joined the party. Collections were made, webs, radio and television broadcasts were translated. We have accepted the most refugees in the world, a huge amount of money has been spent to help Ukraine's defenders, and we have taken care of the refugees together. Our whole country, in agreement, helped the needy, and I, as a citizen, am extremely proud of our nation. I also say this because the Čech have solidarity within them. Of course, some abuse it, of course some say it's wrong. It's not bad. Many of you have referred to Christian values here, so before you appeal again, read the story of the merciful Samaritán, and then speak. We immediately started work at the Department of Health. A team was formed composed of representatives of the Ministry, UHISU, VZP, the Association of Health Insurance Companies of the Czech Republic, the Association of Regions, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Education, the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps, the Association of Practical Physicians for Adults, Children and Dorost, the Association of representatives of patient organizations. We have taken a number of steps within health care to help refugees. The main step after granting the visa was to bear the status of state insured for refugees. We couldn't have hundreds of thousands of people here without a claim for paid care. In the order of the days, the 1221 line was adapted to which not only refugees but also doctors who needed to communicate with them could call in their native language. Our staff on this line cleared nearly 15,000 calls to date. Our directly controlled hospitals also immediately became involved in the care and managed the increased strain, for which their management and staff deserve a great deal of thanks. We have also established in addition to the standard care of 28 UA POINTs, especially in our directly managed hospitals, but we did it in cooperation with the regions and it is necessary to thank the Association of Regions for really excellent cooperation. Here is provided medical emergency care for adults, children and adolescents from Ukraine and in case of interest also gynecological-natal ambulance. We have prepared all possible communication cards, all so that refugees from Ukraine do not feel like uninvited guests. Courses have also been activated for Ukrainian health professionals who are interested in participating in the Czech health care system. We are, of course, working with the World Health Organization and the UN Children's Fund in all this. I have had dozens of discussions about this, with representatives of European, Czech and world organisations, and the result was that these organizations provided us with more than 100 million to build these centres, to courses and to support them. Various projects are being created, but they will benefit Czech citizens as well, such as setting up ambulances where they have not yet been. We have also received a number of patients from Ukrainian hospitals, which are bombed by the Russian army or are completely overloaded. These are mainly children and oncological patients. Finally, in cooperation with pharmaceutical companies and their associations on Ukraine, we sent medicines and medical resources for tens of millions of crowns, but these were donations, and I thank them immensely. At present, the tenth truck with a load of these gifts is being prepared. All of this was handled by our health system without any restrictions on health care or the availability of medicines for Czech citizens. None of these drugs were at the expense of medicines for Czech citizens. Whoever says otherwise is lying! [[18.30 hours]] And when unnamed opposition politicians ask, What about our people? Then I say to them, "Shame on you! First, because our people have not been limited by this in that time. Secondly, and I point out that these refugees have often lost everything and have nowhere to go. Their house or often the whole city is in ruins and you want to blame them for their health care? You want to blame them for helping them? No one can be serious. The purpose of digging up ditches in society and artificially creating conflicts at a time when solidarity should be, I will completely reject not only as a doctor, but as a member of the Red Cross. I was Vice-President of this organization after the revolution, I drove a convoy to Romania, I helped in Romania, and I'm used to helping if necessary. And I'm glad and proud that this is what our state and our fellow citizens are doing. Within the framework of the Lex Act Ukraine II, we have also established that after 150 days of granting temporary protection, the same rules apply to Ukrainian refugees as for Czech citizens. Of course, we have prepared information materials for this in cooperation with health insurance companies and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I add that, in terms of financial impact on the health insurance economy, the impact of Ukrainian refugees in 2022 is predicted to be positive. There is no way Czech patients are paying for this. Many of them have found jobs and are doing health insurance on the contrary. Overall, I dare say that under the circumstances we have managed not only as a Ministry, but also as a state and Czech society, we have certainly passed this difficult test. After all, this has been confirmed by representatives of the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the European Union, where I am currently chairing the EU Council. This brings me to the third task that our government is facing, and this is the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union. We have had two out of six months of incredible rides, when Czech ministers direct the meetings of ministers from all over the European Union and our experts coordinate the meetings of tens to hundreds of working groups, trade unions and performances. Our health priorities, I have already mentioned this, are oncology, rare diseases, vaccination, strengthening the global role of the European Union in the field of health and aid to Ukraine. It is the improvement of cancer care that is the main health priority of the Czech Presidency. I want there to be no differences in the quality of care across the European Union. This subject is personal to me, and it is very important to me. I certainly don't publish any brochures under the head of the VZP, financed from money from the VZP. I write the books, the doctors learn from them, the students learn from them. I don't need VZP to issue me promotional material. I was with Professor Vyzula, who you know very well, along with Professor Žaloudík when I returned from Japan, not only did I promote, but I started with a number of methods here. That is why it is my personal business that really oncology in the Czech Republic should be of an amount to be available to be of good quality. This is one of the main reasons why I asked Professor Vorlíček to become my advisor and complete his work, i.e. building complex cancer centres and linking the network. And I thank Jiří so much for this. Jiří, thank you! We will hold a number of expert conferences on these events, from which various recommendations will come, clear conclusions and clear proposals for the European Union. The first one is already successfully over, and it is a conference on oncology and a conference on genetics. More than a hundred experts from all over Europe came to Brno at the beginning of July for two days. The treatment, prevention and data protection of oncological patients was discussed. We discussed mainly networks of national complex cancer centres, cancer registers, a proposal for a regulation on the European space for health data and screenings, cancer screening programmes. We were talking about new screening programs. A number of recommendations have emerged from the conference, which I will be presenting next week and will be the subject of the informal discussions of the health ministers that I will lead. In the coming months, we are still waiting for expert conferences on rare diseases, vaccinations, psychiatry and other matters relating to our Presidency. There's a lot of it. I am proud to have feedback from foreign colleagues that we manage the Presidency very professionally and that I would like to express my sincere thanks to the organizers, whether it be Masaryk's Cancer Institute, whether it be another facility, and to all the people who are working on this at the Ministry. It's really a huge piece of work, it's ant work, and it's their credit, certainly not mine. And now to what is the main task of each ministry: to move our country forward a little bit. The cornerstone of each government is its programming statement. In the health department, after eight months, we have fulfilled much of the promises that we have made to citizens in this part. I don't think there's any point in naming them all, but I'm gonna stress the essentials. We have enforced automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons. This is certainly an historic step, and I am pleased that it was appreciated by both opposition and coalition MPs and senators. It's something the previous health ministers sought. We were very difficult to calculate by which formula. We've been discussing this across the political spectrum, across experts, and I think something has been done that the entire public has been calling for. It was one of the fundamental points of my electoral agenda and the government's agenda. This concludes the ad hoc budget increase, which has often only been volatile in the system, and we can start discussing long-term health care planning. What is left unnoticed and I would like to emphasise this: we have also tripled health insurance prevention funds. Yes, prevention is one of the basic topics of the government's health care programme statement, and we have managed to promote triple prevention funds in less than nine months. We have stabilized the postgraduate education system of health professionals, represented by the National Centre of Nursing and Non-medical Health Sciences and in non-medical disciplines and medical disciplines by the Institute of Postgraduate Education in Health Care. In a nutshell: dozens of meetings took place with the Dean's Association, the management of both institutions, representatives of professional companies, representatives of SOR and KOR, and we came to clear cooperation, to clear cooperation and a model that will link education in tribes, education of basic certificates, superstructure certificates and certified courses. We have reached agreement and within the next two months we will sign a contract with the association, with both institutes and with the Ministry, which will be the cornerstone of how further cooperation will be set. I think it's very good news for all paramedics, as well as the fact that doctors after the tribe finally raise their salaries and move on the tribe to the 13th grade. He deserves it. We inherited poor access to health care, but I'm really not the one who would stupidly criticize previous governments. This is the long-term problem of Czech health care. In the long term, ministers have repeatedly tried to reform primary care, improve the availability of dentistry, improve the availability of physicians for adults and physicians for children and adolescents. We're going somewhere over and over again, but the availability isn't enough. We know, and many ministers know, and in front of me, they knew from the predictions of ÚZISU and Professor Dušek, that the population is getting older, that health care is feminizing, and we're looking for recipes. It is a subject that is not political, it is purely technical and I dare to thank you here by your means, Madam President, Mr Vondrák, who is not here, but I thank you as Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, because he has really been very active in working with the Ministry of Health of the Parties on dental care and I am glad for its proposals. I am pleased that he accepted our proposals, and I think cooperation with the Association of Regions will come to several amendments and several legislative amendments this year, which will simplify the regions of operation and the provision of emergency services. [[18.40 hours]] What the Ministry was supposed to do - and I did it at a time when it was only a little bit possible - was to move funds into the education of practical physicians for adults and practitioners for children and adolescents. So all the money the Ministry will have for education will go into these two fields to increase the number of these doctors in the field as quickly as possible. I am extremely pleased that, after a long time, a consensual proposal has been made by discredited professional societies, and it is necessary to thank them very much for this. The fundamental part - and for me personally a very important area - is prevention and the follow-up development of oncology. These really do not provide for the publication of either advertising brochures or the construction of new hospitals where no one would work. One giant oncology center in Prague in Vinohrady, where land ownership was not even clarified, would not really solve it, and such a center could not be built. Everyone knew that, the only one who didn't know that was the Prime Minister. The professional public and the paramedics in this room know this, but I don't want to dissect it. Experts agree that the abolition of this megaloman project in Vinohrady was the right decision not only from a medical point of view, but also from a building point of view. I couldn't really build it. On the contrary, it saved billions to go to regions, where care is really needed. Here I will stop by the health section of the National Recovery Plan - for what I have been criticized for today. That's our next job at the Department of Health. The national health recovery plan addresses essentially two main areas: increasing the resilience of the health care system and a national plan to strengthen oncological prevention and care. 15 billion are allocated to them. The plan was prepared in 2021 in particular. I don't remember him ever being discussed with the Health Committee. The first minister to present this plan to the Health Committee was me in May of this year. The focus of individual areas and projects was based on the decision of the previous government. After taking up my post as Minister of Health in a very short time, I managed to make some major changes in cooperation with colleagues at the Ministry of Health in the National Recovery Plan so that the money was used effectively. Originally completely oversized projects, which did not meet the needs of Czech health care, have been adapted so that they can be realized at all so that we do not have to return the money. All the milestones and objectives that need to be met in order to hold financial support from the European Union can be met after my adjustments and those projects have turned green. This change managed to eliminate fundamental risks, which could significantly jeopardise the acquisition of funds for the Czech Republic. In 2022, under my direction, the strategy of the Ministry of Health was completed by the National Cancer Plan by 2030. It was created in cooperation with the Czech Oncological Society and was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in June 2022. One of the most important investments in oncology is the construction of the Motol Cancer Centre, a workplace that should be connected to the Prague Complex Oncology Centre as well as the Complex Centre Brno. However, investment projects will not only be supported. It is also expected to support the improvement of the quality of preventive screening programmes, because prevention and screening are absolutely crucial. Outside the oncological area, the following projects are also envisaged: the establishment of the Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Medicine, the establishment of simulation centers in individual faculty hospitals in cooperation with medical faculties to serve really for the undergraduate, and especially postgraduate education of doctors. Rehabilitation care is mainly planned for patients after critical conditions, in which specific types of care in hospitals will be supported. Rehabilitation, rapid rehabilitation, follow-up care - these are absolutely key points that can improve the functioning of our health care. However, I was surprised that when the National Recovery Plan was dealt with on the National Health Committee in May, in May this year, the biggest criticism of the original National Recovery Plan, the greatest criticism of what was to be done, to my surprise, was that of the ANO Members. And paradoxically, I was in a position - and if you listen to the record from the health committee, you'll find out - when I defended the previous minister in front of his own MPs. Listen to the footage if you don't believe me. I picked one quote for the illustration. He's not a colleague here, so I'm not going to name him, it's not correct. I informed the previous government of the plan to build a simulation center at the Institute for Further Education for almost a billion dollars. I know you don't do that right now. That's what you would do if you knew what I was talking about. Of course, the doctors don't know that. But the doctors at that moment on the health committee said, "God! and I will quote one of them, a member of the ANO movement: " 722 million for a simulation center for intensive medicine? That's awesome. That's a lot of money, you'll build up an entire emergency income for it. We who sit here have grown up without simulation, and we've made it." This was the opinion of Mr ANO on the Health Committee on one of the megalomanic plans of Prime Minister Babiš. And I defended the Prime Minister and I hájit Minister Vojtěch. Listen to the health committee. I don't know how to react to these things. Changes have come and definitely for the better, but it is only because we have been able to change the plans and set them up really effectively, both for hospitals and especially for citizens, patients and for those who need it. We're here for the patients, we're here for the patients, at least that's how I feel. We're strengthening the screening committee. We have secured funding and further development of these programmes. We have prepared new project challenges from European funds for their development. This area will therefore also have development funding for the next five years. The already mentioned National Cancer Plan 2030 focuses not only on the construction of one hospital, but supports the entire network of complex cancer centres. For years, the Karlovy Vary Region was ignored completely senselessly. The situation here was unacceptable, which is why I went there in the spring in person, which is why I personally dealt with the management of the region, I dealt with colleagues from hospitals, and now support is being prepared to increase the availability of oncological care for residents of the Karlovy Vary Region. Departures to health facilities throughout the country are, after all, a significant part of my work. I don't invite people to the Ministry, I go to them. I'm not going to sit in Prague, and I'm just going from here to the regions. I prefer to go directly to the regions and talk directly with the management of hospitals and other health establishments or educational establishments, but I also go to hospices, I go to senior homes, I go to various non-profit establishments that take care of patients and provide palliative care, whether domestic or in their facilities. I want to personally find out where the shoe is pushing them and how the Ministry can help them. Since I joined the Ministry, I have gone to more than 30 facilities in nine regions, and I am about to go to the next one. I was at the hospital in Nymburk this morning, and I checked out the hospital. I was supposed to be at the hospital in Hořovice this afternoon, driving through the Central Bohemia Hospital, so I'm here and I'm going to Horovice next time, I'm sorry. There are, of course, a number of other areas in which the Ministry of Health takes steps to improve - palliative care, follow-up long-term care, which are previously overlooked areas. We perceive and deal with them, so they will also be supported in the framework of the negotiated payment decree. I would also like to highlight cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I would like to demonstrate on this cooperation how the situation in this and the previous government has changed. It is a pity, through you, that Mrs Pastuchová is leaving, but she would very much understand what I am talking about. You may recall the many personal attacks of two ministers - one was the Minister of Health and one was the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which attacked the Minister of Health. You who have been, whether on the Committee of Health or Social Affairs, will surely remember this very trivial joint meeting of both committees, where the Minister of Health has presented what the reform of psychiatric care and the financing of mental health centres will look like, and Minister Maláčová has said something completely different. And they weren't able to make a deal. That wasn't even non-cooperation, that was hate. [[18.50 hours]] Remember how cooperation worked here on the socio-health border. You've been sitting here, you've seen it every day, some of you have been ministers. You've been there. You really don't remember? We didn't do it that way. We meet regularly with Minister Jurečka and his team every week, we discuss problems regularly. The ÚZIS also started working for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We do not see ourselves as political enemies and competitors, we see ourselves as a united government that wants to help the citizens of the Czech Republic and cooperates as much as possible, and we do this with Minister Jurečka and I thank him very much for that. I am pleased that a full agreement has been reached between the management of both ministries and cooperation has been set up. We'll share the data. By the end of October, we will have the first information that we will submit to both committees, and we have started working intensively on legislation on social health borders. If we ignore our political bickering, squabbling and really talk - and I hope that we will find strength and courage across the political spectrum, we will really talk about social and health issues and social health boundaries, so I am absolutely sure that you will appreciate what we will introduce to Minister Jurečka. All those who deal with this issue will appreciate it. I don't need you to appreciate it on this forum, yes, we're fighting politically here. All you have to do is say it in private, that's enough for me. I am pleased that not only has there been a full agreement and cooperation, but we share data, especially with regard to the development of health and social services quality assessment. That's the difference between the government. What's the difference? Of course, the Prime Minister is responsible for what the government looks like. You guys have said it repeatedly, you're right. It's the boss, it's the commander, he's coordinating. And this commander, which I have, coordinates it well, as well as he ran the university. The ministers are working together. Now, remember how the former Prime Minister, the Ex-Premier, coordinated it. Is he really a good manager when he let the ministers at each other's throats fight? Is he really a good manager when he couldn't convince the ministers to cooperate? And you feel that Minister Maláčová has cooperated? And what did the Prime Minister do about it? Nothing! Glory be to him! We don't fight on Twitter, we don't throw sticks at each other. It's something that's God's way of paying away. In the Chamber of Deputies, we have a number of amendments to the laws that I hope will be passed after the debate on the Health Committee. I am trying to discuss with all the Members of the Health Committee, and I repeat, all of them, regardless of political affiliation, I consider them as experts and I very much appreciate their views, including those of the critical ones. I hope that these laws will pass and that they will find broad support. To sum it up. The Department of Health works very well. Together with me, it is managed by the competent deputy, it is a great happiness, and we deal with professional problems with experts. We're dealing with them at the Ministry of Health, we've decided that the solution from the prose falcony isn't the right way. Let me thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Health once again for their work, just as I thank all the paramedics, all those who are helping, who are working, who are struggling with the covid, because Covid has not disappeared, he is still here, and it is a fatal disease. It's a huge debt. Of course, our company owes this to the health and health system. I'm fully aware of that, after all, I'm a paramedic. Thank you for your attention. I wish you a lot of patience, and it seems like we're gonna have to stick together for a while tonight, that we're gonna be here. I wish you guys would enjoy it, since you've already called it in, and I promise you to say what you say, I'm not really gonna take it personally, and if I promised professional cooperation, I'm gonna keep it. I hope that we will continue to go on foreign business trips together and learn what medicine looks like in other countries, we will work together when we fight for the Czech state abroad, and here we can continue to argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u15	I also thank you, and I will also add an apology that has passed in the meantime, and it is Mr Jiří Navrátil's apology today from 13 to 16 o'clock for work reasons. And now it comes with the priority right registered by President Radim Fiala, then Minister Marian Jurečka is signed up. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. My serious colleagues, my colleagues, before I start talking about the government's mistrust, I must say that I was amused by the Minister of Health. And I understand that, because you're obsessing. [[Fun, applause.]] Yes, the five-calice is building an emergency meeting on mistrust for the government, and I know why. You want to hold the government for 24 hours. [[Laughter.]] I think, Minister, that we'll give you 24 more hours, and you don't have to worry if you have any more stimulating gigs, for example, from any other areas of health, you can come or inform us of the 26th anti-coronavir dose. I'm sure that'll be interesting, too. And I think it was a lot of fun, because there's no more fun in it, it's really serious stuff. We have agreed with the YES movement that we will call this meeting and call for a vote on government distrust, because the situation is really alarming, especially in the energy sector, where people are asking us on the street how to do it, especially seniors who may not have a partner to share their financial demands on energy, and they say: We have received 15,000 bills, but I have a pension of 14,500. What do I do? Well, that's a five-calice question and the Prime Minister's question. You said you'd help them, that you wouldn't let anyone fall. I don't know what to tell them. Prime Minister, you had a year to do something, and you did nothing. You didn't do anything! I have to mention your help with fuel, for example, where in Poland and Hungary there is 30 or 33 kroner fuel, and you have reduced the excise tax by a crown and a half, and before it was even able to project into prices, the price of oil jumped so high that no one really noticed it, and we are still tanking for 45 kroner, on motorways somewhere for 48 kroner, so all help zero, nothing, zero! And power is the same thing. We even in the Czech Republic - you are so good, Prime Minister, that in the Czech Republic, although we are one of the largest producers and exporters of energy, we have the most expensive energy in Europe in converting into the parity of purchasing power. Dearest! That's the result of your year's work. Well, that's a big reason to call a vote of mistrust meeting for the government. How do you explain that to these people? You've been talking here for hours, literally hours, extending this meeting to keep the government 24 hours longer, and what are these people supposed to do? And I'm not just talking about people, what are companies supposed to do? Businesses cut their margins at first, cut their profits. Then they had no more profits and, of course, they started paying for it, borrowed it. They don't even get loans anymore, so the smallest ones go bankrupt, and then the companies that are energy-intensive, they go bankrupt, too. And if you look at the companies that have prospered, the years have prospered, and we need them, whether they are in the economy, agriculture, food industry, they are not able to keep it today thanks to energy intensity and financial intensity. [[19.00 hours]] We are in danger of a deep recession in the economy, industry, agriculture, food industry, just everything, and inflation will continue to rise. The fact that inflation in the Czech TV charts has fallen by three tenths means nothing at all. This is affected by many influences such as seasonal influences, other influences, and so on. When the inflation drops by a few percentage points, then we can talk about something that has succeeded and stopped, but so far, inflation may have slowed growth for one month, but it is still growing. It's still growing, and it's going to be very serious. So that's one area I'm gonna want to comment on today, and that's energy. And of course, the second area related to this government is the proliferation of mafia crime into this government through the STAN movement, and the fact that the Prime Minister is covering it up, that they are actually okay with it. These are the two most important things why we call for a vote of distrust to the government. Those are so important things that they don't call this vote, so there wouldn't really be any opposition, so they don't have to be here. Because what could be worse than the fact that our industry is collapsing, that people have nothing to pay for energy, and that we have a mob and organized crime in the government? What could be worse? Yeah, it can, there's still war. You adopted her, too, so we'll see what happens. I have to say to the energy sector that, until recently, this government didn't mind at all that the Ministry of Industry and Trade didn't do anything, that it wasn't full of activity, that it didn't have any results, because it's been talking here since January or February about an austerity program that was announced about 14 days ago, and yesterday the government said that it's going to change it, that it's still insufficient, that it's not enough, because people really can't handle it. Even what the government has been preparing all year doesn't work for you, Prime Minister, to do what you said on TV that you wouldn't let anyone fall. It's just not true, so you have a lot to do. I see Mr. Prime Minister's clear managerial misconduct here, and I have to say that inaction in that government where no one does anything outside, or maybe does, but the government doesn't have any results that year, there are no results for people to know, to understand, to say, yes, the government took care of us, and we can do it. That's what I think is the management error of this government's boss, and that's the Prime Minister. I would also like to know how you deal with this in the coalition, because how do some ideology, philosophy, and so on come together in this five-police process? How, for example, does the philosophy of completely left-wing pirát, who would like to share everything, as they say, with the inviolability of personal property that the ODS recently proclaimed? How is it combined in this five-calice, on the one hand the philosophy of the Czech koruna and on the other hand the euro? How can two groups in this government agree when one wants to legalize the Constitutional Family and the purpose of the family, and the other promotes marriage for all? It's just ideologically and philosophically he's a blind man who doesn't have much in common. He has one thing in common: he has government responsibility, he sits in government chairs, and I think that's the only motive these people hold together, who act as one group here. But I don't think it's viable for this government to spend its time merely explaining to desperate citizens that you're constantly discussing different solutions, but you don't actually have any of them yet. You call it sending signals. So you need to stop sending signals and prepare some solution that, as you yourself said on TV, will not let people fall. And I wish that had happened, but I don't see any spark of hope in the future that that would have happened. And then it seems necessarily that they are doing this on purpose, that they are not interested in anything, because members of the government, ministers, MPs and others each month receive their salary, so they are actually not worried about anything, they have nowhere to rush, to ensure that citizens do not fall and that the government has some recipe for people to survive, so that they do not have to hesitate to pay energy, rent, medicines, or food. I don't know if you know this, but a lot of people are starting to buy groceries on credit these days because they just can't do it. I feel that we are in the worst situation in the last 30 years, and that is why we have to call a meeting to discuss the distrust of this government, because we have to face it, and if you don't want to face it, we have to force you to do it, or step back, or that government will just have to leave. We must keep in mind that any increase in energy prices is immediately reflected in all the costs of entrepreneurs who can reduce their margin for a while, but then have to reflect it into the prices of their goods. Everything gets more expensive, that is, inflation increases, most foods, some foods up to 40 percent, housing gets more expensive, you just need energy for everything. And if we fail to resolve the price of energy sharply, inflation will continue to rise. But this government solves the consequences, which means it is making some problems that citizens have, but it doesn't solve the causes, or it is trying to make problems, but it doesn't solve the causes, that is, the price of energy. And companies, factories fail because they can't handle it financially, and no one lends it to them if they can't do it when they can't see it at the end. No bank will lend them long-term loans if you can't see the end of what's going to happen to energy prices, because so far the government has no recipe. The price of electricity has gone completely crazy and is completely unpredictable - on 26 August the price of power electricity was only about 60 percent of the total price of electricity for Czech citizens and companies, on record 24 240 crowns per megawatt hour and on 30 August it fell to CZK 14 969 per unit. But after charging renewables to the energy market operator, distribution, transmission system, electricity and VAT taxes, which are all other components of the total electricity price, we get to CZK 25 to 30 per kilowatt hour. And guess how much more was it a year ago? A year ago, it was about 5 crowns. But 25 to 30 kroner per kilowatt hour means that other companies will fail and that citizens will find it very difficult to tighten it. Similarly volatile and unpredictable is the natural gas market and its prices for Czech consumers. He reached his maximum also on 26 August 2022, when he climbed to CZK 7,821 per megawatt hour and then fell to CZK 5,708 on 30 August. But let us remember that at the beginning of August it was still available for about CZK 4,000 per megawatt hour and a year ago it was only CZK 861 per megawatt hour. Those are completely different numbers. It is about jumping growth in the order of up to thousands of percent. [[19.10 hours]] We can see where all this has gone, what is causing, among other things, the decline in our standard of living. They're mainly energy prices. Those must be started quickly if we are to emerge from the current crisis. Unfortunately, this government of Petr Fiala has no idea what game is being played here with our lives, that there are such powerful players on the market, who do not really care how people live in Europe, especially in the European Union, and I am not talking about any Czech Republic at all. But that's what we're supposed to have a national government to take care of Czech citizens and companies, try to look for them and find the optimal solution for maintaining a standard of living, ideally for improving them. But this five-calice government does not do this, only looking for some chimeric common European solutions. I remember when we faced the problem of migration, the migration of Muslim immigrants to Europe, maybe six years ago. Remember? They were all looking for common European solutions. No, we wait, we don't deal with it, we wait for common European solutions. Was there a common European solution? It wasn't. There are no common European solutions. It's just an excuse, Prime Minister. It is your alibiism so that you do not have to look for anything, because I guarantee you that a common European solution cannot exist. It cannot exist because each country has a different energy mix and has a different price level. It's just an alibi of this government because it can't find anything. It is torn from the border to the border, on the one hand it is Brusel and Washington on the other. He can't do anything or he doesn't have the political courage to do it. And if she doesn't have the political courage, she should resign, because this government is here for the citizens of the Czech Republic, for no one else. For no one else! That is why it is not only the parliamentary opposition but also an increasing number of Czech citizens and companies to remind this government. Besides, it's already happening, and it's getting more and more intense. An open letter was recently sent to the Government of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises of the Czech Republic. In it, this association expressed a sharp disagreement with the government's current practice, which does not take any fundamental, rapid, effective steps to protect Czech companies. It also stated that many companies have been playing for their survival in the order of months, and the government ignores these warnings. And that the government's present aid is regarded by entrepreneurs as quite insufficient or rather zero. You know what I'm most interested in? That this open letter was barely printed, no one led any controversy over it. Few journalists did it, almost no one. I don't remember seeing it in a newspaper, and it's a real threat to the Czech industry, the economy, the real recession that's threatening us, and it's probably coming because the government, as we hear it from that letter, has no solution. But I'm sorry that journalists aren't accentuating it and that they're not helping people and those companies that they're helping keep this government quiet. That's what I think is a big problem. Similarly, employers' associations have now expressed themselves and are asking the government in an open letter for concrete measures for companies due to expensive energies. They stated that the promise of compensation for the Minister of Industry and Trade of Jozef Síkela for companies from the manufacturing industry does not mean the approval of the program by the government and there is no clear deadline for the start-up of applications. This is a large ice shower for Minister Síkela, who rarely goes to the media to explain his ideas to address the energy crisis. And he should be there because people and companies need to hear it. And when he was finally supposed to bring the best that the Ministry of Industry and Trade had produced and invented in September, it was instantly torn apart by employers' unions and the professional public. Unfortunately, not the press, and I'm a little sorry. This shows that Blažek's speech by the Minister of Justice was truly prophetic, and I agree with him. I think very much like him, and I feel the same way about it. We are beginning to be in a situation where not only ordinary citizens, but also companies, including really large companies, are not shy of yelling publicly at the government to do something, and not only formal, to make an imaginary comma, but something really effective that will prevent companies and citizens of the Czech Republic from falling into poverty and bankruptcy. That is why we are here today, and there is a vote before us about the government's mistrust. I feel such distrust of this five-calice government, especially among the citizens with whom I am in permanent contact - yesterday in Olomouc, the day before yesterday in Ostrava. That is why I am also going to vote in favour of this government's distrust. There were plenty of options to do. We'd repeat ourselves, but why not? SPD's got ten. We tell him everywhere so people know there's a way. She has to be politically brave by the government, but there's a way, and I think it's the only way. Firstly, it is not Putin's fault for this energy crisis, although I agree that it is aggression, but I want to say that this energy crisis started before the war in Ukraine. Do you know what she started with? It began with the launch of the so-called Green Deal, the Green Agreement of the European Union, the European Commission. It started by shutting down coal and nuclear power plants in Germany and Sweden. She started by saying that there was a shortage of energy, electricity, and when there was a shortage, what would happen? Well, what happens is that her price goes up. The price of energy began to rise before the war in Ukraine. This means that the European Union, the European Commission, the Germans are the culprit. The Germans said: Why would we have coal power plants here, why would we have nuclear power plants here where we have to deal with nuclear waste when we can buy it cheaply from Čech? They're gonna sell it all to us, and cheap, so let's close it up. And the so-called Green Deal started to work. That means item number one, withdrawal from this Green Agreement because it leads us to hell. But already this government, I think it's doing that because they've already allowed light fuel oils, coke, and other things, because thousands, maybe tens of thousands of people here would have frozen if they hadn't allowed it. And all of a sudden, Green Deal's out. So that's the first thing. Second thing: cancellation, withdrawal from the emission allowance system. Emission allowances are part of the Green Deal. Does he smoke your chimney? You have to buy an emission permit. I know a lot of Haná companies, where I come from, which say, yes, we had a profit, but we had to pay it for emission allowances. We don't have the power to invest in technology to improve. And unfortunately, now the energy is ruining them. That means the emission allowance system - the pessimists say they're increasing the energy price by 20 percent, I say it's 30, maybe even more. The emission allowances were supposed to be here to bring the money to the environment, to improve the environment in the so-called Green Agreement we're talking about. So you know what emission allowances are going on today? It's a normal economic commodity. They're being bought by US pension funds, it has nothing to do with the environment, it's actually a thing that increases the price of energy, and if we don't get rid of it, we're going to pay the price we talked about here today, which goes to heaven. That means leaving the emission allowance system, two. [[19.20 hours]] And thirdly, the most important thing. The government has created a cost-effective tariff here, which I agree with, which is also part of the SPD's journey. We would have reduced taxes, we would have reduced VAT mainly, so we would have dealt with an austerity tariff for a certain period of time, but there is another tariff, which is called a social tariff. The social tariff means that we will not send the generated energy to the Lipska Stock Exchange, to the Lipska Commodity Exchange, but we will sell it directly to Czech citizens with some relevant profit and we will sell it directly to Czech companies. Do you know how much energy we make from the core, for example? Twenty-five cents. Twenty-five cents! So we add profit to that, it's going to be thirty cents, and that's going to be a big profit, and we're going to sell it to Czech companies and Czech citizens. And everyone's gonna be okay, everybody's gonna be okay. Do you know who has the cheapest energy price in Europe? It is no one from the European Union, it is Switzerland. You know why? Because it didn't accept to be part of the lip commodity exchange. What the Švýcar make is what they use in their businesses and in their citizens. Cheapest electricity in Europe - Switzerland. None of us would say that, but it's because they don't feed speculators and give electricity to Švýcar and Swiss companies at a reasonable price. So, hat off, Švýcar! I would like the Czech Republic to do this, too, to leave the lip commodity exchange and sell only surpluses on it, that is, what we will not sell to Czech citizens and Czech companies, we can send to the commodity stock exchange, let the Němec buy it, let them buy it for other nations, because we are one of the largest producers and exporters of electricity in Europe today, but we have it most expensive. That's a paradox! We are the largest producer and exporter, and we have the most expensive energy. That's incredible. So it's a social tariff. Next, if I continue the path of the SPD, the political generations that were here before us, they were mainly generations of ODS and CSSD, they sold everything that was worth anything, everything. There was a company called Transgas, which was a Czech gas trader. We had direct contracts with the producers, with Russian gas, of course, because there wasn't another one at the time, and we were clear how much we were going to buy it for, we had long-term contracts. We're buying Russian gas today, by the way. At that time we bought it for 6 crowns, today it goes first to Germany, there it democratizes and we buy it for 27 crowns - the democratized Russian gas from Germany, just so you know. That means, we say we need our own gas dealer, a Czech trader, and we are the only country that doesn't have its own contract. The Maďar have it, the Rakušan have it, the Němec have it, the Polák, the Slovák, but we don't have it. We buy democratized gas for three times as much from Germany. That was the gas. The next step we have there is the refinery. It wasn't so long ago that our government sold the Polák to the Unipetrol refinery. So Unipetrol has raised margins thirty-three times in the past time. Those who are responsible for the fact that we're fueling as much as we're fueling today aren't pumpers, as the government has tried to tell us, they have a crown of a liter, not a crown, maybe less, they're making money from the shops that they have on their pumps, not petrol and diesel. But the frog on the spring is a refinery that is not in Czech hands again. That means Polák ride 30, 33 kroner, Maďar do too. Maďar sell us gas, Polák oil and gas, so we have nothing. [[Germans?]] We don't have anything. Of course, the next step towards stability is agriculture and food industry. They won't, they won't be food, their price will go up, and no one will sell it to us. So what we're saying is that the government should have all the power to give national grant programs to all farmers, no difference, if it's big, small - it can make it so that it can make it, because the problems are bound to happen. And last but not least, we have in our tenure that - and the government has done that, and that is perhaps the only thing I have to commend - that it has cut the solar subsidies that we all pay on our electricity receipts. You always have CZK 400 in the corner of renewables, we all pay that, so we don't have to pay it now, and the cost-effective tariff - but here I have to say, it's not enough in the cost-effective tariff. It's not enough, Prime Minister, they're gonna fit, these people and the companies, if you don't add up on an austerity tariff, and I don't mean it pejoratively, I mean it, they're just gonna fit. And, of course, then, it is a limitation of all the necessary expenditure in the state budget so that we do not have such huge expenditures. We borrow 300 billion a year today. Well, we can't beat inflation if we borrow 300 billion. Journalists ask me, is this wrong, or how many would you see, 290, 285 billion? That's not entirely important. The important thing is when we get to black zero, and nobody here can say that. No one here can just say that, but we've already promised the most expensive fighters in the world, we're buying different beepers and other vehicles, but when we get to zero, how long are we gonna borrow? If it's after 300 billion and the interest rate goes up as it goes up, I can see it, Prime Minister, for three years. In three years, the economic and social system will collapse. What will you pay your pensions for, for no one will lend you any more? And until the end of your reign, if you were here for three years, you'd make it. They didn't tell you that? Then ask Zbyněk Stanjura. Well, that was about our tenure, and we'll see what happens. I'm afraid nothing. The next thing is - let's just go back to the lingo stock market for a little while, where we propose that we send only surpluses. It is just virtual transfers anyway, but it is no longer a virtual transfer when companies of other countries with higher purchasing power will overpay us and cost us our own electricity produced on the Czech territory. Why should we sell electricity produced in our nuclear and coal power plants to states that didn't help us build them and even disgust them with nuclear energy and coal and do whatever it takes to ban it from us? They don't want to produce it on their territory, they want to ban it on our territory, and they're fighting us with every means. But to buy it from us, and by expensive ours for our citizens and companies, they obviously don't mind. It's already a big moral and ethical problem. Electricity is the first and easiest it can, has and has to deal with Petr Fiala's government. She didn't make it, and it looks like no new ideas came up. That's why Petr Fiala's government should end, and that's why we're here today. If it doesn't have a solution, another government has to come up with a solution, but unfortunately, this government looks like sooner or later the lives of our citizens and the existence of thousands of Czech companies will be irreversibly damaged. That was for energy policy. [[19.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to major failures in economic, social, and in particular energy policy, in addition to groping and inactivity in virtually all departments, in addition to the guilt for the deterioration of all important economic indicators and the standard of living of broad population groups, which have no parallel in our modern history, the important and possibly key reason for the immediate resignation of this government is its fatal incapacity to govern, its total incompetence and incompetence to manage the state, the gradual collapse of important state institutions, the cleansing of all levels of government and, of course, the growth of the government's STAN movement, and thus the whole government, with the mafia and organised crime. During the last year, the STAN movement has proved to be a lobbyist organization of institutionalized corruption, a kind of clan that parasites public procurement and public money, a clan that was run by a gangster's helper Krejčír Michal Redl. This movement, this dubious entity, has been a weight that has been dragging the government down for several months, and the Prime Minister is silent. And even though it turns out to be a clear risk to the functionality and impartiality of the security apparatus, it leaves an important interior resort in the gesture of the formal president of this Rakušan movement. Today, the coalition's leaders are smiling victoriously and applauding each other for the excellent resolution of an absolutely unheard-of affair with the appointment of Petr Mlejnek as Director of the Office of Foreign Relations and Information, i.e. civilian intelligence, the Minister of Interior, Austrian. In this context, we could even hear a statement that, when Mr Mlejnek resigned, there were even every reason to vote on the distrust of the five coalition government. But it's just the opposite. The Mlejnek affair, including yesterday's resignation of its protagonist, which is a direct continuation and some sort of temporary culmination of the criminal case of the STAN Dosimeter movement, is something that is quite typical of the current government, which is its worst feature and what is also the decisive reason for its withdrawal. Government officials pretend that Mr Mlejnek's resignation is the culmination of political culture, and that, to put it lightly, we can be glad that Vít Rakušan did not name Michal Redl as head of intelligence. But the fact that Petr Mlejnek eventually had to resign himself when, although very late, he assessed the situation as unsustainable, that he did not withdraw it immediately after the first serious information about his incapacity to perform this key security post himself, or that he did not intervene by the Prime Rakušan, is in itself the hardest accusation of the current government with the testimony of its top amateurism combined with egoism, arrogance and cynicism of the roughest grain, which does not compete to gamble with our security and to paralyze our secret services. The secret service that Petr Mlejnek was to head is one of the most important secret services in the Czech Republic. There are a lot of decent, responsible people working there, and what happened here is a direct threat to the security of our state, and even to the security of the service staff. I'm convinced that we can't just nominate someone as head of service by texting, recommendations that, as it turns out, didn't even come up with the Home Secretary's cell phone, but there must be a whole other procedure. That such important things as the Secret Service must have some concept. That people in these places have to be raised in the long run. They have to assume that they will once be in charge of such a service, and I think that this is the only chance to ensure the quality of these services and how to ensure that it does not become such a farce that happened here, which unfortunately hurt those services and the people who work there the most. And I don't think it should ever happen again. The fact that Minister Rakušan, after figuratively speaking, shot off a capable, honest and apolitical police President Švejdar - do you remember how he met with him before he was a minister, and Mr. Police President Švejdar resigned the next day? That was the case. According to the claim that food grew in appetite, he removed the director of civil intelligence from General Šimandl, a high-quality, loyal high-ranking civil servant who successfully consolidated and controlled the institution after previous problems, and replaced it with a man who never worked in the service, had no necessary security clearance, and for ten years he had been close to a mafia boss who was robbing the state, a story that was cut out of a novel about a coup in equator Africa. If Mr. Rakušan says he didn't know who Mr. Redl was, if Mr. Mlejnek says he didn't know who Mr. Redl was, but they've been seeing each other for x years, then if you click on the phone, you'll know in two seconds. And they knew it, of course, but they make us look like fools who think they can tell that they didn't know something like that, both of us. It's not true! It's not true, both of them must have known. Seriously. It is such a severe failure, and not random, because Minister Rakušan repeatedly claims that he knew and did not mind about the contacts of Mlejnek-Redl - that it was therefore a planned event that the removal from the Minister's post would really be a very mild punishment. I believe that someone told Mr. Rakušan to put Mr. Mlejnek there, perhaps it was Mr. Redl who actually ran it all. Someone told him, and then Mr. Rakušan started looking for some good news to explain how he'd excuse it. And Mr. Mlejnek resigned in a situation - I don't know if you know when that morning appeared on the List server - that he was involved in some kind of public procurement and that the eavesdropping is that he arranged to bend those public contracts and so on. That would be the head of the service, that would be a bomb for the Czech Republic! He'd be a blackmailer for the whole world! Well, that's incredible stuff, and I'm saying it's an immediate threat to the state. The fact that Prime Minister Fiala did not intervene makes him fully responsible for the serious threat to the functioning and operation of one of our - and perhaps most important - secret services and shows it in full fire, saying that five-wheelers consider important state institutions to be things they have been given for four years to play and can do with them what they want, and that in the power rush and in the desire of the state to control their people, they will stop at nothing. By the way, I don't know if you know this, the five-wheeler traded the chancellor in this House, even in this House, it's a former MP for the TOP 09. So just so you know, it's really true that we're not making this up, that they're gonna trade the doormen here in no time. Despite the halastic proclamations, they have no respect and responsibility for our state, and that is perhaps even worse than the fact that they have entered this government completely unprepared professionally. And they've been telling us for a year before that they're all set, ready, and there's gonna be a change. Change has really come, but unfortunately, it's worse. Representatives of the current government parties, while still in opposition, repeatedly claimed that the state apparatus should be professional and untouchable and that, after its accession to power, unlike others, those before them, they would not make any major exchanges in high professional and administrative positions and the like. And the reality? Since taking office today, the government has been recalled or forced to resign the said police President Jan Švejdar, director of intelligence Marek Šimandl, director of the Czech Post Roman Knap - for one meeting with Michal Redl, and for Mr Mlejnek, meetings with Mr Redl were a recommendation for a new high position. Furthermore, they had to leave at random Chief of Military Police Miroslav Murček, General Director of Customs Milan Poulíček, Director of the Financial Analytical Office Libor Kazda and so on. So, really, no cleanups. No purges. [[19.40 hours]] And I am not talking about an amendment to the Service Act, whose aim is to replace only the positions of Vice-Presidents purely political. The amendment, which Vít Rakušan once again shielded, is clearly the leading figure of personnel purges in the state apparatus carried out by this government, because it promised the opposite. [[although]] But it's just one of a series of promises that he broke shortly after he arrived. The series of government affairs, where the main protagonist is the leader of the Stan Rakušan movement, is already slowly and undeservedly covering the serious affairs of the movement he controlled, and that they have been since the election! So let us briefly remind ourselves, because it is once again one of the very serious reasons why this government does not have our trust and, according to the last few surveys, the trust of the vast majority of the public, and why it cannot even have it. By the way, this government, the STAN movement and the Vít Austrian personally, elects a completely new, unconventional tactic to deal with its serious scandals and the cause. She's always had opposition (?) at least self-esteem, apologized, said it was an individual's problem, that they could handle it. But instead of immediately dealing with these affairs in their fetus, dubious people have called back or apologized, they always overlap with a new and new one, and an even bigger problem and a worse, more serious scandal, with the hope that the previous one will be forgotten. The extremely serious cases of the STAN movement, many of which have criminal character, are accompanied by us virtually nonstop from the elections. They have their origins, of course, in a deeper past and stretch through the entire history of the existence of the STAN movement. Their common denominators are suspected, somewhere already confirmed, of the criminal proceedings, of the misuse of public money in large, suspicious party financing, conspiracy, secrecy, abuse of the status of a public official, a large conflict of interest arising from the accumulation of the functions of the highest representatives of the STAN movement, as well as the personal participation and personal involvement of the senior officials of the STAN movement in these scandals. Someone, I don't know if it was Mr. Rakušan to not wrong him, someone at the assembly or the convention, or what they had in the STAN movement, said they were a young movement, that it was actually the puberty of the movement, that it was a teenage lapse or something, or something, they said. Well, it's not, it's obviously the crime of the rudest grain, it's handled by the Organized Crime Bureau, it's just criminals. Longtime national leaders of the STAN movement, especially Mr Polčák, who closely connected the movement from the beginning to Mr Redl, controlled the Prague organization and is still a MEP, and Mr Gazdík, but also others, simply made their political engagement under the head of the Mayors a particularly advantageous and lucrative business, and the ongoing investigation may soon show how far the tentacles of this octopus intervened. We don't actually know that to this day. We discussed the STAN scandals here after the election at several extraordinary meetings, the reflection of its representatives was zero. Mr. Vít Rakušan laughed at us here today and said how the Ministry of the Interior actually works well, how much work has been done in those eight months, how much work has the entire government done to make you look at it. Look at this: we don't have gas and electricity bills, and we have mobs and criminals in the government. I don't know. First of all, there is an explanation of their dubious system financing through hidden and secret sponsors based in tax havens. Mr. Rakušan, do you not respect Czech citizens so much, who are financing your movement through state contributions decisively, that you refuse to share information with them? Who are you covering for? What did Mr. Polčák and Mr. Redl deal with in Prague's municipal policy long years before Mr. Hlubuček's arrival, whose cases were merely a sad culmination of your long-term cooperation with this man? Why did you cover for so long and support Mr Hlubuček in the management of Prague when his serious excesses were also brought to your attention by coalition partners and when a representative of the STAN server did not influence you for a considerable time before his arrest. cz literally - quote: "We know that Hlupček is Hlubuček investigation, even though the police have not yet charged him." So everyone knew, only Mr. Rakušan worked hard at the Home Office and didn't know anything. Why didn't you deal with the warning of the elite police detective Karel Tichý, who told news server Novinky.cz He said that in 2017 he pointed out Petr Gazdík's unsustainable connection to Mr Redl and his past. I got it printed from that year 2017; it came out on iToday; it came out on Novinky.cz; it was published in Parliamentary Lists. But the representatives of the STAN movement did not read and did not know this, even though it concerned their movement, and that everyone had to tell them that something like this was written. And I will remind you that Mr. Rakušan spoke to the media about the information on the Dozimeter case file, which is again completely behind the line, that the Interior Minister's parties - or his recommendation to Petr Gazdík to dig up and throw out the encrypted phone that he was communicating with the people around Mr. Redl. This is the Czech Interior Minister. It's the Czech Interior Minister! And we're saying that he has to resign that his position as Home Secretary is no longer unsustainable in the long run, that the police can't investigate these affairs that he informs on - where does he get the information here? Because he's keeping an eye on it, which means he's got some kind of access to living causes. But he said the minister couldn't interfere with anything, that he couldn't interfere, but on his instructions, he wasn't a minister yet, but he already left the police president, did he? Then what is it? Just a position for Mr. Rakušan is unsustainable, and I think he should resign, or the Prime Minister should call him off. And I must also remind Mr. Rakušan's untruths when he explained the reasons for the appointment of Mr. Mlejnek in office. At the time, the Minister referred publicly to the recommendation of three specific persons, and he also appointed a specific rapporteur, thereby endangering his life. Right after that, two of these people denied Mr. Rakušan's claim. So what makes the Home Secretary choose the boss so important, maybe the most important secret service? He was then forced to correct his comments and spoke confusedly about seeing only some recommending text messages. That's really in the quotes the responsible selection of the head of intelligence. It's from the position of Home Secretary something incredible, publicly lying, and yet endangering the identity and security of the personnel of our secret services. These are all things that completely disqualify you from the right to rule this country. Ladies and gentlemen, when, on the basis of objective facts - and nothing that is not a verified fact, I have not spoken here today, I have drawn everything from public sources or from verified facts - and, in summary, this government has completely failed in what is its primary duty, namely to manage the state for the benefit and to work to improve the macroeconomic indicators and standard of living and the quality of life of citizens, or at least not to make them worse. In this respect, the results of Petr Fiala's almost annual government work are absolutely trivial, with the most visible example being the energy sector, the drastically rising, the destruction prices of electricity and gas plus the inability, the unpreparedness and unwillingness of the government to really deal with this huge problem responsibly. But dealing with this mess, not patching up some of the consequences that are going to happen, dealing with this mess, otherwise nothing's gonna help us. Unfortunately, the fact that in recent days the Minister of Industry and Trade has been quick to draw proposals out of hats that are inadequate and sometimes contradict each other is not such a solution and cannot be. It is a fire extinguishment with a teaspoon of water, an attempt to alleviate some consequences, but not a systemic solution to the causes, which is the task of any government. [[19.50 hours]] But perhaps even worse, the government's behaviour towards the state and its institutions is as in the conquered territory, carrying out personnel purges that threaten the smooth operation of the state apparatus, and some of its components paralyze and threaten, as we have now seen in civilian intelligence, with the very close and long-term human connection of the other strongest government party of the STAN movement to the environment of organized crime and its protagonists. The Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the Stan Rakušan movement not only does not solve this link, but permanently reduces it and uses it and does not hesitate to harm our secret services and the entire Department of the Ministry of the Interior, to whom it is logically unable to devote itself, because it has had to explain its affairs every day for several months and to correct its previous questionable claims. Such a government cannot be functional and cannot be the head of the state in these difficult times. He's not professionally competent. The state was not ready to drive, its internal problems burden our country and damage it at home and abroad. The citizens who pay for it do not deserve this treatment and there is no point in prolonging this agony further. Dear government, your time has come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u17	Have a good evening. We took turns managing the meeting. I'd like to see Mr. Vice President Havlíček's speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I recently compared this government to Jár Cimrman, because it's a little bit later everywhere. I have to apologize to Jár Cimrman because this government is exactly like a watch. This government pretends to know everything, it has keys from everything, it's been everywhere, twice. She was, but where she's supposed to go, where she's supposed to be, she's a few months later. So let's recap, facts. As far as the current electricity price is concerned, 15 times as much as it was two years ago. I deliberately say those two years because that's the usual time of fixation. Current price: thirty times more than two years ago. Now we're calming down in the last few days that things are getting better. It's not thirty-seven times more, it's thirty-seven times more. The price of petrol, the actual increase as it was two years ago, 44 per cent, oil 64 per cent. And if we look at the current purchasing power, to be exact, the source of the Household Energy Price Index from Austria, so as far as electricity is concerned, we are already number one. We are on the crate, we are the first - highest prices in the European Union. As far as gas is concerned, we have the fifth highest price in the European Union. To say this, inflation, and everyone knows this very well, 17.5 percent, the fourth highest inflation throughout the European Union. Maybe you remember, at the end of the year, we were exactly on average. We now have 80 percent more than the average of the European Union. I just recapitulated, these numbers that everyone knows, but it's good to say, because we're watching the Czech Republic fall free, and the impact will be hard, very hard. Before I go into the coalition, it is fair to say what we do as opposed, because the coalition often meets us by being populists, and the Prime Minister said here that we are absolutely not a constructive opposition. So let's recap, what we're in is unconstructive. Since the end of the year, I specifically propose the main three energy measures. First, cut VAT, just as we did in November and December. The government laughed at us, but many countries did it, for the last time, if we are watching it, Germany gas from 19 to 7 percent. Next, I say: payments for renewable resources must be forgiven. This is the tunnel of 600 billion crowns from 2006 to 2010, which, among other things, causes us to produce a beautiful 2.8 percent of electricity from photovoltaics. Everyone laughed at us. It's populism to forgive payments for renewable resources. I don't have to say it's been done in a few months. For the next one, we say, "Stopping." We've been reminding you since March. Since March we have shown various models, whether on the basis of an agreement, on the basis of subsidies, on the basis of specific taxation, emergency conditions and so on. I know this isn't easy, but we're showing what ways we can use to make a racket. Laughter again. We have also proposed a number of social measures since spring. We're trying to keep it balanced. It is clear that we cannot put in place all the social, energy vaporizations, and it is clear that the more we can help in energy, the less it will be in the social area, and exactly the opposite. And the problem with this government is that it doesn't help either in the social one or in the energy one. At the same time, since spring, I have been trying to propose resources from which we will pay all these support instruments. I propose that the dividend in CEZ can be used, that it is possible to use the undistributed profit from CEZ. ČEZ will have between 60 and 90 billion profits this year. That's four-- five times as much as it was last year. We're showing how to download the money. We're showing what needs to be done. Is that populism? Is that something weird? Is it weird that when I say it in quotes, we want to give back to those who pay incredible energy prices? Is that populism? I'm also showing that it's possible to take money from the Modernization Fund. It is a fund where we are getting sources from emission allowances, which are extremely expensive, which crush our industry and where the European Commission assumed that they would cost EUR 90 between 2040 and 2050. That's how the 90 euros cost in 2022, the European Commission cut by about 25 years. But more importantly, it crushes our economy. But on the other hand, we're getting the money out of it. Since December, since January, we have shown that the money can be used by a minor amendment of the law and in favour of the budget, in favour of the aid. Laughter again. Is that populism? That we want what is extra to be used for the benefit of companies, for the benefit of the population, or for the benefit of the institutions? Well, we have higher inflation revenues, we all know that. I think it has already been said here today that the German Finance Minister said it was immoral for higher inflation revenues not to go back to the economy. But let's play fair. We're not just saying higher inflation revenues. We say the difference between higher inflation revenues and logically higher inflation expenditures. This is populism? I think it's pretty material. This is unconstructive? Then why are you bringing it all in here later? Unfortunately, as I said before, with a few months' delay. Since spring I have been showing examples: Austria, Poland, France, Germany, Spain, Portugal - I am not saying that it is ideal, it is the best. I'm just showing you how they do it. Do you remember Covido's time? How did the opposition, the current coalition, lynch us for giving little, giving more, and showing very often Germany and Austria? I took it, that's politics, and to a large extent, even in many matters, the coalition of that time was also right. I mean the opposition, the current coalition. So let's take a look at Germany, how we're looking at it today, how Germany is doing it. I said there's social support and energy-economic, if that's how we want to divide it. In the social support of the Němec - three degrees of support. Flat for all, specific for those who have families with children, and specific for those who are socially very weak. Simple as a slap, scaled by hundreds of euros, it's been working for months. And the energy-economic one? They immediately withdrew the renewables charges last year, and they didn't have that crazy tunnel like ours. They supported the companies, let's listen well, with a sum of CZK 675 billion, converted of course, which would mean taking it to the population, that we should immediately give the companies CZK 100 billion. Specific surcharge for those pumping diesel or petrol. Mass transportation for 9 euros per month, plus minus 220 crowns. At the same time, we raised public transportation fees for pensioners and students. Support specific to technology companies, motivation to switch to other sources. Is that populist to show the example? We didn't take any example of it at all. So what is the government's response? Stop giving me advice, Mr. Havlíček, says Minister Síkela. I understand he doesn't want us to advise him, he has his advisors, he has Mr. Pokorný. I don't want to get into his role. We don't advise, we criticize, we say our opinion. We're saying how it could be done, and it's up to him and the other ministers to possibly take something out of it or not. And if you're already laughing about not doing it, then why are you introducing it? Always, as I said before, like that Cimrman, with a few months' delay. It's not your idea. But to be honest, it's not even our idea. We're not the ones who know everything and have a key to everything, but we're looking at what's going on in the world, we're looking at what's going on somewhere else. We're trying to show what, where and how it works. [[20.00 hours]] So let's recap how your support works. Social area - we said from the beginning that it would be complicated, so it is complicated. Four percent of the households reached it, I suspect less than 180,000 households. I'm not saying he's principledly wrong, no. All I'm saying is that we've had between 20 and 30 percent of our households going to poverty today, while a year ago, it was 10 percent. These are the numbers that are actually being copied by other European countries. And we have a housing allowance for 4 percent of these households. What about the rest? How are we gonna deal with this? Yes, we have a 5,000-dollar contribution, crayon for children. I don't understand why it wasn't until the age of 18, why it wasn't until 26 when the kids were studying, but so be it. Those are even better cases. When it flows into shoes, companies get nothing at all, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs comes and without any consultation - we would never dare do that - with the business sector, with business unions, associations and so on and says that cursarbeit will be introduced. For God's sake, why cursarbeit at this time? Kurzarbeit is when demand fails. Okay, when there's floods, it's covid time when people have to go home. You didn't discuss it with the government? Why do we say cursarbeit? We have a completely different business problem! These companies are uncompetitive because they buy energy extremely expensively and at much higher prices than in other countries, like our glassmakers, with whom I dealt yesterday, who fall like pears from a tree - pack it up, it ends. I note that some of them have worked even hundreds of years to avoid exaggerating, for example since the late 18th or 19th century, if I'm not mistaken, 1880 I believe there was one company, so they end. They survived everything, they survived the war, they survived communism, they survived covid, they didn't survive this government. And why are they falling? Because other countries like Poland, Hungary, but even now Austria, support companies so that they can sell these products significantly cheaper than our companies. Is that what we want to watch? That's okay with us, isn't it? I would understand that someone who doesn't deserve to be on the market is ending. Yes, it's life, it's environment change, times change. But why do they fall at the expense of those who support, such as Poland or Hungary? We're not gonna explain this to anyone, we're not gonna explain it to anyone. And we'll come up with a cursarbeit. So we're gonna drive the employees home and survive the time. But there's no problem at all. It is clear how there is a lack of economic factor in the government, how there are no economists, how they are not talking about it at all, but not at all. Which I'm not saying we did everything right, either. But let's look at the energy-economic area, because it's already a farce. I'd say the social one's still trying pretty hard. Renewable energy sources -- as I said before, they laughed at us first, then they forgave themselves here. Unfortunately, we are in a situation, and again we are in Cimrmano, when it is a few months late, it will only be valid from 1 October. If we look at it as prices go up, it's going to be somewhere below 3% of energy prices. So thought good, unfortunately late. If it were introduced in the spring, as we said, it could be between 10 and 15 percent, which I think wouldn't be bad at all. An energy-saving tariff, I'm not even gonna comment on that anymore. Complicated, late, low. If it was introduced in the spring, we could talk about why it's so complicated done, the distribution system is completely insane, but we're not in the spring, we're approaching the time of autumn, when energy is again significantly more expensive and the tariff really doesn't help anyone, it's really under discernment. Even the captains had to admit it. But it's not just them, it's the household that sees it. That's not what I'm talking about, it's just for households, it's not for companies and so on. Guarantees were prepared for companies. We know the result. Units of applications for guarantee programmes. I'm not surprised why they're a unit of applications. Please, who's taking credit today? After all, we can see that the central bank has deployed a response at 7 percent. Do you know anyone who takes credit for power? He'd be a total lunatic! I take it he's gonna take a loan with some state guarantee to bridge some time, and he's gonna pay his stock, he's gonna pay his debts, he's gonna pay for it, or he's gonna fund some assets. I'll take it all, I'd understand, and it's a pretty good tool, the guarantees, we used it, too. But to recommend to companies from the Ministry of Industry and Trade today, when they're running into their shoes and have a higher energy invoice order to take credit, that's crazy! No wonder no one's marrying him. Unthinked again. Until a week ago, Minister of Industry Síkela claims that there will be nothing left for the companies. The end, no direct support, except for what's coming, let me be precise, and these are the renewables. Anyway, that's really microsupporting. Help yourself, finally employment is very low, we are in a market environment. Just as a week ago, it was clearly said: There will be no ceiling, forget about the ceiling. It's not a market tool, and especially if it's ceilinged, it won't motivate savings. Then the Prime Minister repeated it. But Friday came, the captains stood on the back, which are your colleagues - the vast majority of the captains are tied to a five-calice. Huge criticism from all unions, associations and so on, of course, from the opposition. Opinion currents began to develop inside the sides of the five-calice, perhaps even factions. I can't see it. In principle, Minister Blažek appeared here and suddenly everything is different. Suddenly everything changes and measures are being prepared quickly. We're going to separate the electricity from the gas, and that's going to put a stop to it. I take it we've already rejected it once, which was sometime in the spring. If I'm not mistaken, at that time Spain, Portugal voted in favour of, I think, Italy, I'm not sure, maybe Belgium. We voted against. All of a sudden, we're gonna try to make a big deal out of it. But thank God for the change of heart! 31. 8. After this little revolution, and I think everyone saw the very frightened Prime Minister on Friday, who tried to quickly put everything together, the Ministry of Industry and Trade will come back to life and actually implement the temporary crisis framework of the European Union for companies. I'm just saying, it's already 11. 4. at the Ministry of Industry and Trade it was said that we were analysing this framework. Then four and a half months nothing, relax. The message that companies will get nothing to say to each other again, and after this hype, they're starting to come back to life. But again, it's relatively good news. Maybe it was because the Treasury Secretary refused, that it had already been said that nothing would be released. It wasn't until they all got together and found out that the companies were really going to hell, that something started to happen. Minister Síkela says it was at the right time that he came up with it at the right time. I'll fix it. He only came up with it when he had a knife on his neck, and let's not pretend it wasn't. But why are we introducing this framework for companies that will be in loss, or only for companies that will be in operational loss? I think I understand what they're going to do, but why don't we discuss it with the different unions and so on? It was discussed with them and they categorically said that they did not, and quite factually said that they did not. Why do we punish those who tried to do at least something in the context of the crisis, maybe they started saving more, maybe they started firing, maybe they started acting more market-driven, like this government is calling for, and they got it somewhere to zero, or they just have a little loss, and why do those who have the greater loss get significantly more? I mean, they all have to buy on the same terms, I mean, energy. They all have calculations that are also based on energy costs. How, then, are those who do not get anything and who have yet tried to compete? Don't we understand that this is awfully unfair? Then we learned that the energy-saving tariff, which everyone criticized, including the captains, and correctly criticized it, which was originally supposed to be 2,000 this year still to be precise, then 4,000, then something between 3 and 4,000, although it was all suitable for the so-called season, that is to say 15,000 contribution, which we criticised, because I would still understand it when the energy was at some reasonably high price, but now it should have been done so that it should have paid everything this year as far as possible. Once again it was saved on the budget in 2022, instead of saying: We are in a critical situation, so let's pay it off now and next year let's look for more resources. No, it'll decompose in two years. So everything changed again and it was said that this tariff would actually increase in the end, and that it would not be the 3 to 4,000 this year, let me be exact, but that it would be 10,000. Okay, it sounds a little bit better, but I haven't heard it from the government, I don't know if it's true or not, I heard it from the press conference of the STAN movement yesterday. The final conclusion from the government is that it's going to be the three to four thousand. So change again, it's messed up again. Let's see if it's that much or that much. [[20.10 hours]] So you can see that a number of the measures that we have proposed, which you have mocked, you said that they are populist, that they are unrealistic, so sooner or later the government is eventually in some way controlling them. Too bad it's so late, and unfortunately, it won't have the effect it would have had if it was being introduced in time. But what does that mean, what is the result? According to Bruegel's assessment, we are the second to last in energy support throughout Europe. The last is Denmark, which is relatively socially strong. And once again, the government starts its marketing and says, "We have an umbrella plus energetic support." She added it together and said, "It's CZK 177 billion, she threw it in the tables and it turned out that we're in the first period. Are you seriously making fun of us? Are you serious? Not to mention that there is a half of pension valorization in the entire famous Umbrella, above which you have no success at all, but so be it, that's what it's going to be. And as for energy support, even if it's the 66 billion, like I want to believe it, there's only gonna be a part of this year and the crushing part next year. And, of course, all the statistics are to what has been exhausted, not what is about to be exhausted, because all the countries are still going to draw, all the countries are still trying to level out and bid and bid. I mean, it's crazy that I'm gonna count what's going to be next year into the tables that are being reported today. To the present we are the penultimate, this is a sad reality, unfortunately. How does it affect households? 30% of them are headed for poverty, uncompromising. Medium-income households become poor households, and low-income poorers become households that really have a fatal problem with food. And I could tell you dozens and dozens of stories. I know you're laughing that we're driving around the country of Bohemia, I know you're laughing that at the time of the holidays, we visited 205 cities during the summer. And I'm not saying that our opponents weren't there, they were, yeah, they were whistling, but we met tens of thousands of people there. Instead of laughing, go too. Go out into the field, meet them, get some feedback! You may get over the laughter because, for example, in Ostrava, I was visited by seniors who showed me the receipts, or the invoices, and they were saying, "Living plus energy, even before the auction, 14 to 15,000 crowns. That's reality. Our pension is also 14 to 15,000 crowns. And these may be the widows who showed it to me. So we have nothing. Yes, let us be objective, thanks to social assistance, thanks to the housing contribution, they can get something. They got a plus minus 2,700 crowns, so let's do the math, please, you have to see this. They have a hundred a day, and they have to pay for the food, they have to pay for the clothes, they have to pay for the drugs, I don't know what else is there. Is that what you think we can handle? We have to see this! And that's what I'm saying: this part of the population is going to get into a critical situation and it won't take long. It won't take long! I know you can laugh again now, you can shake your head again, you can say how it won't, and it will turn out that way, just like when we told you how things were going somewhere in the spring, when we showed you how prices were going to grow, how prices could go up. Yes, it was even more than we anticipated, I admit, but we showed the scripts. You said it wouldn't happen. So, what about the companies? You remember the time of the covido. I could start reading here right now - and I won't do it, you know - what five-caliber MPs said, five-calice officials, how to give more. You even urged us to give 80 percent of the revenue from sales. Minister of Industry, your colleagues were saying, just do the math, which is absolutely insane, 80 percent of the yield, the so-called German-Austrian model, then 70 percent to give at least the proceeds. That's what we strictly refused to give, from sales. If someone has an expensive schnitzel, we don't give them money to have an expensive schnitzel. We're gonna give him the expense, that seemed logical to us. We were giving 50 percent and you were begging us to give 100 percent. And I will read to you the individual Members, today many of them are ministers, including the Finance Minister, who said: You give little, you have to give more. And we gave 50 percent. Put the barrels on, and give them fast. So we saturated about 700,000 entrepreneurs, businessmen. I'm not saying all the programs were ideal, some of which we would have done differently. But I don't want to go back to the past, it's the essence of me. Now, I don't care how the programs were designed, and I'm sure you're gonna pull back - I don't know - the ten casinos she got. That's how she got out of 700,000 entrepreneurs got ten casinos. If we hadn't given them the casinos, she would have sued us because she was locked up. So cancel them, the casinos! And tell them they're not supposed to work, because it's something extraordinary, something immoral. But I'm not even saying that because of the casinos. I'm saying this because if we were to give what you asked us to do, you can count on it, it was 200 billion crowns more babbuch in that budget. Again, we didn't. After you came to the government, you laughed at us through Master Síkela and said that we gave power, that it was carpets and so on. Okay, I'm gonna wave my hand at it, that's life, and that's pretty much politics. It doesn't bother me so much, it's important to me that we saved those companies. What bothers me is that you didn't give them anything yourself. In those first eight, nine months, the corporate sector got nothing, nothing but the guarantees, and there's no interest in them at all, so I was just trying to explain it, so just promises. You said in April that the European framework would be prepared. It still isn't. It's only after a huge fuss that you begin to prepare something for those companies. How are these companies supposed to stand it? You must know they're buying it on the spot. I mean, you have to know that these companies buy it at crazy prices, 15,000 crowns for a megawatt hour of electricity. I don't know, 6 to 7,000 per gas, 30 times as much, and they're really starting to collapse. They're not nearly just glassmakers. It is a ceramic industry, a manufacturer of building materials, heavy industry, chemistry, but also textiles and so on. I mean, he comes to your house. Or if they don't come to you and you don't deal with them, you have to see it. The companies are terrified, their representatives are scared, the unions, the associations, they write to you, they conquer you, they can't get to you. No one knows what's going on, but all they know is that energy is growing and they're probably getting nothing. And again, it's been a week, you said they're not getting anything. Minimal communication, arrogance. You're laughing at them. You're telling them it's a market environment to go borrow money. Industrialists resign, energyists keep their heads in their hands, and the situation is critical. But it's not just for households and companies, it's for public institutions today. Why do you think the captains came up with this? Because they're from a real environment because their ass is on fire because they're called their hospitals, their schools, they don't have invoices. They really don't have the invoices because they're threatening distance teaching. Sports facilities, cultural facilities and so on. That's why they came up with it, which is why they said that the energy-saving tariff is completely useless, that it doesn't help them at all, and they're calling for what we're already saying, and that's after the ceiling. As much as I admit it's not easy, the shenanigans, I don't want to be a hero here, that we'd snap like this and solve the shelves, but that's what the government is for, that's what the government's responsible for, so it's not just to try, but to get the scripts ready. And I don't blame you for not being caught today. I'm blaming you for the fact that there's no plan to make it fast. That's what's bothering me the most. I realize it's not easy. I know the times are difficult, we haven't had it easy either. I wouldn't wish to run this country at the time of the covid. And again, we made a lot of mistakes, too, but we were in a totally unpredictable environment. We didn't know what would close the next day, what the country would do, the other country, and so on. People's lives were played for. It's a little easier for you to talk about whether energy will grow by 100 percent or 500 percent, but it's not that we're in such a brutal environment that no one here has ever seen before. But I don't want to make excuses about this. We had to go through it, too, and somehow we were dealing with it. But you keep making excuses, you keep looking for the culprit, you keep looking into the past, you keep crying. Instead of dealing with the future that everyone cares about, you're still dealing with the past. Nobody eats from that, nobody pays the invoices with that, even if you're right about some things - like I'm trying to explain to you what you don't have it in - it's good for all of us. And again, today, when I heard that, I thought maybe he'd start performing, what's going to be done, scripts, and so on. Prime Minister - crying, crying, mistakes, all past government, how they did it wrong. [[20.20 hours]] Trays - never-ending story, as it was with the magazines. I'm saying that the government lacks a landlord. At least let's do the math. The Prime Minister tells us that this lemonade-- everyone look at it-- you see that lemonade? [[It shows a full bottle.]] - it's half empty. Do you see her? It's half-empty this lemonade because it says we've had our bins half-empty. So at the beginning of the heating season there was 87 percent. 87 percent is half empty? I don't think it's half empty. And he said, I don't know, these people, why don't they check it out - that the magazines were never as full as they are today. In 20 seconds, if you look at the search engines, you'll find that at the current date there's really 85 to 90 percent - it still depends on how fast it's pumping - and it's good, now I'm not rushing it to understand each other, it's good that there's enough in those bins right now. And in 2020, do you know how much there was? 98 percent. But I don't think it was our extra credit, because, to be honest, those magazines were filled by those who have the gas there, which isn't the state. We privatized everything here, nothing belongs to us - neither transport, nor distribution, nor bins, nor trade - nothing. And those companies filled it up with 98 percent. Again, it wasn't any extra credit to our government, it's just filling their stacks. Last year they were 87 percent before the start of the heating season. Today, thank God for that, it's filling up pretty nicely, it's filling businessmen well. But please, at least, Prime Minister, study the numbers. And if you don't study it anymore, which I understand, you don't have time for everything, so let them give you the exact data so you don't talk nonsense and make fun of yourself. So is oil, TAL. That's what's starting to build up for us. But I admit, no one knew what was going to happen. We had 50 percent of the southern branch, 50 percent of the branch from Russia. As far as Polish gas is concerned, this story, everyone already knows how we missed the chance -- well, if no one wants to marry you, it's probably hard to convince him, maybe you'll impress him differently in some way. The Polák had money on the table that we provided for them. Finally, Poland rejected it pragmatically because it was disadvantageous for them at that time. Nobody wanted liquid gas, they had enough natural gas. And then the European Commission refused to give them the money because it burned once. Meanwhile, they arranged it with the Slovák and the European Commission gave them money. Norwegian gas - another story, unbelievable. What I'm saying is that even analysts have to correct you for saying nonsense because Transgas has been privatized. I guess it's hard to talk to commercial companies today about who they're supposed to make contracts with or not. It's like we're selling Skodovka, I mean the car company, and then we're sayingškodovka "Please don't take the parts from Mexico, Russia, take them from the United States." They'll laugh at you. But what's more important is we never took Norwegian gas anyway. We only paid for it in Norway, but there was always gas flowing to us, especially since 2011 and beyond, virtually 100% Russian. Your so-called Russian addiction is due to how European gas infrastructure is built here. Also, look how the gas is still flowing, it wouldn't hurt to study it sometimes, whether it's flowing from left to right or right to left, if there's pressure in the pipe, if there's no pressure in the pipe. And you'll find that basically we, Slovakia, Austria, Hungary and so on are doomed to be here for Russian gas, because there's a pipe coming to us from Germany, where it's all mixed up. But I've said all that many times here, you know that very well. We can talk about the Dukovans. I don't want to say that again, Dukovany. You all know very well that we pushed the price, that we wanted to make the most advantageous price possible, which is why we wanted a security assessment on everyone, just like you did in Temelín. And I don't blame you at all, this Temelín, I mean from 2010 to 2013, when Russia made it to the finals. You pushed the price fairly correctly, factually. Then why are you criticizing it today? Taxonomy - Prime Minister, you must be a wizard. If two or three years of upcoming taxonomy means recognition of resources as sustainable resources, it is being prepared for such a period of time, the European Commission will recommend it and declare it 31. 12. 2021 - you were in government for two weeks with Christmas - so you arranged the whole taxonomy in two weeks? But you didn't do anything. Let me be objective, in the coming weeks, two or three months it's been a little bit adjusted for the sake of the gas, and there, yes, you've fought as well as other countries and it's been slightly modified. But to say that taxonomy is your merit is incredible insolence. Emission allowances, for heat plants 30 percent? Yes, that's what the Polák secured. Please find out, too. Why am I saying all this, could I keep going now? Because in energy, it's really like the show you're doing. A huge degree of incompetence, resulting uncertainty and all overcoming an incredible dose of arrogance. No wonder people don't trust you because they think you're an elitist government. That's the result of your reign. And that's why your preferences are going down like this. That's why 97 percent of companies don't trust you. 97 percent of companies! And I have to say objectively, a whole bunch of companies and business people voted for you. Yeah, she voted for you, and she didn't vote for us because they went through covid time and they were mad at us, and I get it. I could go on, I could go on, I could show your budget tricks when I was standing here in February 2022, showing you how you're bending the budget, how you're making fun of us, from renewable sources. And it's not enough. It's all coming back to you again, speaking of renewables. Do you remember that we had 26 billion crowns in our budget? And you came up with the fact that you're not, that you're going to put 2022, of course, to lower it to show how beautifully you work with it, to 19. And I told you, that's nonsense - you have to pay for it. Unfortunately, that's the solar tunnel tax that was created here. Every year 43 to 46 billion crowns must be paid there, of which approximately 27, 26 billion crowns are spent on the state budget. I said, you can't avoid that, unfortunately. Remember last year, when it was a margin, or an internal yield percentage, for solarians, how you sprinkled us here, and you wanted to pick up the margin at the last minute. We saved that somehow, more because you guys made a mistake with the vote, but I don't want to go back to that either. I just said it was nonsense. No, the Minister of Finance said, "We know it will blow less." So what did you do now? You guys got it back. Don't forget this, and I'm telling those who are watching us. You embellished the 2022 budget and wanted to show you how to save money, and we clearly told you it was a trick. So you put it back on - if I'm not mistaken - 25.4 billion, so once again you put it back not by 7, but by 6.5 billion crowns. How's the coal? You're not dealing with coal at all, coal strategy. Why didn't the coal commission meet? I know you can say that, but it's not about expressing government distrust. Well, you're probably right about that, although I'd say that, as far as the coal commission is concerned, at this time, maybe a time of coal would be worth putting together. I even think she should meet regularly, just because there were experts. I mean, there were people from your five-wheel drive. And I gotta say, good people, good people. I remember Mr. Zahradník from ODS, an experienced man, who worked well with him. I don't know why you don't work with it, why you don't look for a coal road. Underfunded research - in a total way, without any strategy. And I'm not talking about new trends - hydrogen, artificial intelligence, what we started, and so on. I don't want to go into too much detail right now. All I'm saying is we're going downhill, it's a free fall, and you're all looking at it. I understand that you will choose today, or rather tomorrow, to continue within this government. I understand. You've got a hundred and eight. But the reason we want to express our distrust is clear. Your economic results are pathetic. Families go to poverty. Firms are in a critical situation. Energy support comes late, is confused even without any plan, is done ad hoc up under pressure, whether the opposition or your colleagues or the media or anyone else. And don't tell me you don't know. You have to see it that way. And I'm not talking about the fact that you actually discredited a whole series of key institutions in the first nine months. But that's another story - it's the Ministry of the Interior, it's the whole tragiccomedy of the STAN movement, all affairs, cocaine cases, news cases and so on. There's been a lot going on here today, and I'm sure there's a lot going on. If Members agree to this, let them stand up today and say: I support this government, I support this energy policy, I support this regime within the Ministry of the Interior and all the cases that are there. I'll understand from the point of view of keeping my own positions, but as a voter, I wouldn't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u19	I will now ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. Before he starts talking, I'll read an apology. Professor Ivan Jáč apologizes, from eight o'clock to the end of the meeting, for health reasons. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u20	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues, and all of you who are watching today's meeting in the House. I will actually begin with what started this extraordinary meeting a few days ago, when the chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš, who unfortunately is not here - he is not here for a few hours, he came and said his speech, he ran away and we have not seen him since, too bad, he doesn't go to work much, he drives a motorboat - but nevertheless he started calling the meeting and began to say that Vítek Rakušan is here as a person who is not supposed to be in government, and so on, many of the members of the ANO movement were added. I ask myself, where were the members of the ANO movement, when, many years ago, their chairman, then the Prime Minister of their government, was prosecuted, was here issued by the House, my September 12th, a few days later, the court, is being investigated by the financial authorities in Germany and France, so where were they to call for him to quit? Then I don't understand. This is where the double standard is measured. There's a government where no member of the government is either charged or prosecuted or prosecuted, but here's the chairman of the ANO movement, where everyone sits, shoving their feet, doesn't allow himself to say any criticism of his boss, because he brought them up here to the House, he gave them the job, he decides it, so that's how it works. So just to remind you really like the real facts, let's just say how the situation is... [[Punching into the benches of several members of the ANO movement.]] You can bang on the bench here, you can show up all you want, but somebody get up and tell your chairman to quit, because he's a man who's criminally prosecuted with butter on his head, who's been friends with a whole line of underworlds in the past. He used to play tennis with them, meet them at the gas station at midnight, so those are real facts. They don't talk, they don't answer, that's just the way it is. Unfortunately for the Czech Republic and unfortunately for the company, which is divided in such a huge way, and I think it should not be this way. But you just can't say it, even though some of you are definitely not excited about it, some of you are going to tell us that it bothers you, too. Please don't yell at me. You can then use the debate, you can respond to me, and you can say what I have said so far is not true. You can tell the facts, but there's just no facts that can disprove what I'm saying so far, in your boss's defense, they just aren't. When we look at a situation where he himself optimized his income by koruna bonds, it is something that is completely beyond the edge of normal behavior, because no ordinary working citizen could reduce his payout by optimizing through koruna bonds, but Andrej Babiš did. He pleaded with us that it was something standard, that it was normal. It's not normal. It's normal to work in this country, have a tax duty here, pay taxes, pay social security, that's normal, but he doesn't behave like that. He invests tens of millions of crowns from his companies in a commercial on the Capi nest that doesn't make sense because at that time he didn't go to the Capi nest. There, a chemist from Germany invested her advertisement, a fertilizer chemist - it doesn't make any sense either. [[Members and Members of the ANO movement are gradually leaving the O.R.]] So if you guys are talking about some criticism for a member of the government, please sweep your doorstep. I expect this criticism to culminate by inviting your colleague Jana Vildumetzová Mračková to resign as Vice-President of the House, because she also has contacts with the people mentioned in the Dosimeter case. If you don't, you're not supposed to say any of the challenges that have been raised here, either to Petr Gazdík or to Vítek Rakušan. I assume that Jana Mračková, if she is a judge and is not ashamed of what you say on the one hand, will put the position of Vice-President of the House herself - or maybe it is for consideration that the House should call for her to be removed from the position of Vice-President of the House. I appreciate the fact that there's only one member of the ANO Aleš Juchelka movement sitting here, everyone else has left, I don't know why. I'm not saying anything that's not true. They called this meeting, they summoned it, they had a whole mouth full of arguments here criticizing the Prime Minister and the other members of the government, and I just set up a mirror, and I'm just showing who their chairman is, who the former Prime Minister is, what his life course is, what his life story is. And you can't take it and you walk away. Don't you think it's cowardly? When you called this meeting, and you spent hours here throbbing Petr Fiala and others, I don't tepu, I speak in a normal voice. I'm not as hysterical as former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and I'm telling the facts, and you don't want to hear the facts. I get it. If I were a normal person and had any other elementary decency left at all, I'd find that stupid, too, I'd think it's weird. So I took the liberty of saying at first at all about the situation where I find it a little bit really lax when you're talking in this way, and this is what another member, chairman of your movement or your colleague is doing. But when the distrust hearing of the government has been called up, let me also respond from the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because many untruths have fallen here, a lot of things about the government not helping people, that it is not trying to find ways, that we are distracted from reality. I talk to people every week. I talk to them every week. I've got my personal cell phone posted the whole time I'm in politics. People can call me, they can write. I try to answer, I don't always make it, but I don't date security. I walk around people normally, they tell me their life stories. Yes, they are often unhappy. Not always the system that we have, and which I think is a relatively good social system compared to many countries in the world, it does not always solve every situation in life. But we have taken a number of steps to make the social system really able to help people more easily, more efficiently, and I also thank you for working with the opposition, which has also been involved in this. Adjusting the standards of the housing allowance and amending the law at the beginning of January - it was fast, we had it done in two weeks. First big move for those people, thanks for that. We've taken steps in digitization. Today's housing allowance, parent, child allowance, five grand for parents, that's all social support today, when one doesn't have to go to the employment office when we're done with the paper and pencil regime, and we're offering people today to take it from home, simply without having to check those attachments officially and so on, and we're gonna keep doing that. We see in this a lot of sense how not only to make communication with a citizen more effective, to communicate with a client that we care about, but also to reduce the costs of this state, to make it more effective, to reduce sometimes senseless work, to burden people with jobs. And I thank them because they're under a lot of pressure, they're handling a huge penny of work. They are now the ones on which much of what the state has to handle today, help our citizens and help the people of Ukraine. So they owe them a lot of thanks. And we have also tried to project an increase in pay rates that has been paid to people since 1 September of this year, plus really extraordinary rewards that have never been paid to employment offices at such an amount - I repeat. And I also did that after the first quarter, when I noticed from some people who wrote to me and said, Mr. Minister, we only received a reward of 2,000, so I had all - 12,500 employees of the employment office - to look for the second quarter, what was proposed remuneration. And I stepped in to make it fair, so it's not, as they say, by the face, who's popular and who's unpopular, because I care that these people are really appreciated, so that someone who's their superior doesn't play with it and who maybe doesn't have to know the person. As far as other forms of support are concerned, we have modified the housing allowance - I mentioned it - and we are working with it further. Now there's a debate going on that I'm counting on we're going to have a working level in a week and a 1. 10. We adjust the normalities of the housing allowance, not only because electricity and gas prices are increasing, but because we also perceive incentives coming from practice. [[20.40 hours]] We are running into this - and here I am pointing out, yes, legal valorisation, exactly the same legal valorisation, on the basis of which Andrej Babiš valued the pensions and which we, as Members, supported in 2017, the change in legal valorisation in order to change the calculation. That's not the credit of one politician, one former prime minister. It's not, it's not. It is not even the credit of this government, but it is something that money had to be found in the budget, perhaps at the expense of other priorities. And this year it is 55 billion crowns that go to all pensioners in the Czech Republic. And from 1 January it will be a further increase in pensions, it will be an increase of approximately 860 crowns on average, there will be an increase in the basic amount of pensions. And what's important is, and that was a great folklore priority that we've been fighting for here all last term, so that's a 500-year-old mommy. Moms who have been punished for years by the system, when they deserved that we are here today, we as productive generations, we take them to the pensions, but they, because they were on maternity and parental, lost a piece of their careers, made their earnings worse, their contributions on insurance and were punished. It's been filled. Yes - and I point out again - it was a proposal that was supported by almost all parties across the political spectrum at the last or last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the past period. And again, it's about CZK 20 billion. We need to find it, we will find it, and this form of support will be given to these mothers from 1 January each month, 500 crowns a month for a raised child, and they will be given an extra pension. That's a huge shift, too. And if we look at it and take the key value, and that is the average amount of pensions against the average wage in the Czech Republic, we will reach the highest level of pensions from 1991 to the average wage on 1 January 2023. So even in these difficult times, more than 3 million people who receive pensions in the Czech Republic, including disabled, widowed, widowed, and orphans, will get to a very decent level against average wages. But it is primarily due to those who work, who make money on their contributions to the state budget. And I'm sorry that sometimes in the past, there was this place where Andrej Babiš, who said, "I've arranged it, that's my credit, our government." It's never been like that, it's not, and it's not gonna be now. It's a taxpayer's money, a citizen of this state, and we've just set it up legislatively to redistribute it like this. But what's important? I remember how often Tomio Okamura talked here and talked a lot about executions, insolvencys. There's been a lot of work done here, too. And again, let's look for things that connect us. I'm sorry if this debate is escalating and we disagree on some issues, I'm aware of that, but even if we disagree, let's be polite in this debate as far as possible, even though I understand emotions are walking. And this is a subject that we've been able to agree on. Marek Výborný for us, for KDU-ČSL, along with others, with Patrik Nacher for YES - and managed to work out the merciful summer I, after experience with him from the practice with the collected suggestions managed to set up a gracious summer II, and if there is any great news today on 1st September besides the fact that we went to school, it is not this meeting, but it is that the gracious summer II has started today and will run for the next three months. It is a chance for hundreds of thousands of people in the Czech Republic to get out of the clutches of executors, from the infinite spiral of higher and higher spending that they can cut, pay the original amount due, add CZK 1 815 and be out of their executions. But I've never heard Tomio Okamura share a gracious summer on his Facebook page and say, "Hey, that's something I've been talking about for years, that's what I've been talking about, that's what I've been supporting and communicating and saying, "Let's get out of debt, let's have a second chance at life." So it's just an example of how sometimes manipulation works in politics, and then when it's a solution, I don't really promote it, I don't spread it. And yet the task of a normal good policy should be, even if he didn't invent it, even though it didn't do his ministry, but say, "Hey, this is a good thing, we've worked out as politicians here, so let's all get it together, because we care about people. When we look at those things that concern energy, I really cannot agree with the assessments that have been made here by the opposition, because the most meaningful solution and solution that will cost us, the Czech Republic and the Czech taxpayer, the least money, is simply a common, European solution, and that is what we are working on. And say the words: We waited until the Němec and so on, so who knows the background of diplomacy, knows that it never works like that. You need to talk to these people, convince them, and also perceive that the situation around us has changed. The situation has been the most complex since World War II, and we, instead of being able to say together here, it's hard, no simple miraculous solution can be said here in one day, but together we all work on it because we care about this country, so you walk, you dig ankles. At the time of the Presidency, you said that you would not call for a vote on distrust, you know that you do not have the votes, and we will just kill tens of hours here by listening to criticism here, which in many respects has no relevant justification, instead of dealing with the specific laws that stand here, which we are waiting for, which we need to vote to help citizens or companies in the Czech Republic. No one in our government is crazy. We all see that the situation is really critical. We need - and we need - a solution, and we will find it, both for companies and for the public sector, for households. Today we have a basic social network set up, let's say parametrically improve it so that it is even better accessible to clients, but above all we have to tame the cause. And on that, I really think there's a lot of work to be done here. But at the same time, we must not forget what the original cause really is, and that is Russia's Putin aggression in Ukraine. That's what's behind the extremely high prices and the enormous nervousness of the markets today. And if I've been proud of anything in the last few months, I'm also proud that this five-party coalition government that you're shooting into, and you're saying how we can have common opinions and attitudes on some things, so I'm proud that this government knew where to stand as people who have a normal person in life, in politics, that when someone is doing injustice, someone is being attacked, unjustly attacked, that they should lend a helping hand and help the aggressor to stand up. And for that, I am glad that this government has also been able to show for the Czech Republic, for most citizens who have agreed to this procedure and agree that it simply has to help at a critical time. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Our nation is showing it too. We are a nation that gives the largest share of donor money in the context of the Demesks. That was in the past. It shows up in a tornado, where in one, two days it can collect more than 1 billion crowns. He showed it in other natural disasters, in the flood, it also shows now that the Ukrainian Embassy's collection accounts can send billions of crowns to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because they simply have not forgotten the year 1938, and they know that we are morally bound to those who helped us back then, and we have the ability to repay the debt when the time comes, and that time is here now. So I would very much like to have also criticized the opposition to which it has the right, and we certainly do not do all things ideally and best, and I am glad that after a long time I heard from Karel Havlíček, who also said: Our government at the time of the covid by far did not do all things ideally, so that sometimes you also know how to keep busy by saying: There are also things on which we have an elemental consensus. And in the situation in which we are now, to say to ourselves: we stand behind them and we can support them, we can communicate them, because these are not only things that would be due to one government, one ministry, but are primarily due to the fact that there are people who work here, companies that give people jobs, and that this state has something to live on, even though a small part of today's spending is unfortunately on debt, and it doesn't matter to us either. We also want to focus on this, but we all know that now, at this point, the main priority is to stop rising energy prices, cool it down, support companies, support the public sector, support households, maintain economic growth, maintain low unemployment, because these are the basic principles for social reconciliation in society. And that's what we realize as a government, and that's what we're gonna work on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u21	Another of the priority rights applied for is Minister Lipavský. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The benches on the left are still empty, the word half empty would be flattering when I look at the fact that those who called this meeting to distrust the government are not even here to listen to what the government is speaking for the arguments, or even listen to their own speakers. And I don't see Vice-President Vildumetzová from YES here either, I don't see Mr Králíček, Mr Faltýnek. I read interesting articles in the newspaper about who they were seeing and so on. So this is a really special approach of the opposition, and I think that the time coincidence with President ANO and Mr Babiš, who is not here either - why would he be here when he called it, why would he be here when he is the leader of the opposition - so I think he's going to leave no one in doubt. But back to the fabric we should at least focus on in the opening block. It's only been eight months since our government has taken on its responsibilities, and I think it's perfectly objective to say that we're not and we haven't been in an easy situation. First, we inherited a natural disaster in the form of a covid, faced another covid wave, which the previous government completely underestimated, and we handled it perfectly. I think Minister Válek here spoke very highly of it and that he handled it brilliantly. And then came February 24th, 2022, and that's a human-induced disaster, it's a completely pointless Putinův war in Ukraine. The only sensible thing this government can solve is that it will exert all its strength to bring this conflict to the best possible interests of the Czech Republic and citizens of the Czech Republic, and it does that. We are constantly under attack by criticism that we are helping Ukrajinec, that everything is done for Ukrajinec and so on and so on. Of course, we are doing it for them, but we are doing it for the Czech Republic, we are doing it for our independence and we are doing it so that the years of 1948 do not repeat the years of 1968, so that we do not move into the sphere of Soviet Russian influence, Russian imperial influence, and it is not an easy task. The debate in Europe is really difficult, and there are not many countries that have direct experience and that are members of the European Union and NATO members. We know that this is all Baltic, Poland, it is us, Slovakia and others, but this debate is not easy, and thanks to this government, the European Union has been able to take a number of strong and clear steps that strengthen the security system in Europe, thereby strengthening the security of the Czech Republic. And of course, it includes helping Ukraine specifically and helping specific people, and of course helping refugees fleeing bombed cities. And we've also taken over the government after a criminally prosecuted prime minister. This is the court that will be in a few days, and so today it is trying to humiliate us completely artificially, probably humiliate us in his eyes and in the eyes of your constituents, artificially induced by negotiations on distrust of the government. What is the reason why this meeting was convened? That's still not quite clear. So what are the remains? What have we inherited? On what basis could our government build in those eight months? I think it was Monday that the SAO released beautiful information that in the last year we were the fastest-indebted country in the European Union with a record deficit of the state budget. So let us fix this, because in the current situation, and the situation of energy and war is going on here, it's really not an easy task. But I don't think anyone can doubt that our government will have a strong interest in working on it. We have repeatedly said at various meetings that we will not let the middle class fall, we will not let households fall, we will take care of the needs, and we will resolve this during the energy crisis. And this is how we can debate the blind meeting - we can debate it here, we can handle it, we will deal with it, but it is certainly not a constructive move by the opposition, and it is certainly our own denial that even the opposition has said that during the Presidency it will not try to bring down the government. So here's the result. It's September 1st, after two months, so you didn't last long in quotation marks. And I'd like to talk a little bit more about foreign policy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When I joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on December 17, I set out some of the main priorities, the specific things I am working on, and Mr Andrej Babiš, Mr Babiš, here in his opening speech, said that we had fulfilled only 3% of the government's programming statement. I think he must have sucked that number out of his finger somewhere, because I don't really know, or he can't count, or he calculated to go to a low number on purpose. For me, five specific priorities to talk about specific things we're working on. The submission of a sanction law, the so-called magnitský Act, the revision of relations with Russia and China and the return to the pro-Western modern European value-based Havel foreign policy, the digitalisation of the office, the successful mastery of the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union and the promotion of economic diplomacy, because 80 percent of our industry goes on export, whether to countries of the European Union or to countries outside the European Union. Of course, at a time when I was building these five priorities and in some way I wondered how to operate in the Ministry, I really had no idea that Putin would implement his barbaric, barbaric colonial plan to connect Ukraine's territory to his neo-Soviet empire, or I don't know what he's building there for a fascist regime with that Z symbol in Russia. And the war that we have witnessed since February - of course, hit us and showed us clearly that our government was able to respond promptly under pressure in the crisis and to adapt both government priorities and, after all, priorities for the Czech Presidency, which have been adjusted due to this extraordinary situation. And specifically in foreign policy: we have already adopted and participated in the adoption of the first sanctions against Russia in February. It was also a Czech voice that raised his hand for them, and it was us who, of course, called for them, and since then since February we have been pushing for more sanctions and today we have seven penalty packages. This week we talked about other measures in Europe, specifically in the area of challenges for the citizens of the Russian Federation, because at a time when there is a war raging in Ukraine, when bombed cities and mothers and children are dying in the square, so the Rus are driving to Europe, breaking plates somewhere in Greece or where it was, my wife suspects that Peskov or someone like that. And that is something that we should not simply tolerate, the Czech policy is very clear in this and in a very clear way we advocate Czech interests in these matters. Of course, humanitarian aid continues. I think that anyone with a mind and a heart understands that there is a need to help people who lose their homes, a roof over their heads, like some kind of injury. We're dealing with all the basic elementary stuff that people don't even have food. That's really nothing to envy if there's a war going on. This is what the Czech government is involved in, and we are proud to claim it, and it is not something we should be ashamed of. And I think the Czech society has shown in mass that it can be solidarity, that it can accept refugees and that it can open up to them the positive side of humanity. We have solved specific assistance to regions and municipalities, we have dealt with this very specifically on crisis staffs and so on. [[21.00 hours]] As for the further response to the war, I would like to say that we have withdrawn several dozen Czech diplomats from Russia, from Ukraine, a rather dramatic evacuation. I would like to thank everyone involved. It wasn't easy either, and we made it, we made it to one. Today we have a diplomatic presence back in Ukraine again. There is an ambassador who is able to continue to cooperate, make policies in Kiev, help with visits, help with political relations with Ukraine, which are absolutely crucial. And I would like to say that in Ukraine they are immensely grateful to the Czech Republic, in an incredible way grateful. I haven't had that kind of gratitude in a really long time. They realize that, thanks to the Czech Republic, their country can cope with the war with Russia, they are well aware of it. I've been to Ukraine twice since we were in the government for the first three weeks before the war, that's where the funny photo with the helmet came from. It didn't bother me, I was glad that it helped somehow popularize the subject and at the same time show that the situation there really isn't easy. Just for the record, the photograph was created at the Luhanské station, which today is an area that is deep in the occupied territories. More or less this city was bombed and occupied in one of the first days of the renewed conflict, i.e. when Putin set out to conquer Ukraine on February 24, 2022. I was in Ukraine for the second time in July. It was really a very powerful human experience, because after an all-night journey by train to Kiev, we found ourselves in a city that quite normally lives. You wouldn't say it's a metropolis of a country where war is raging, except for such small differences. Whoever ever was in Kiev might be surprised that there were a little less people and cars, and on the streets there were debris of tanks like trophies. [[Mr. Foldy's speech is making a loud comment.]] When we were driving out of town, a couple of dozen kilometers, so... Mr Foldyna, through Mr President, I'm sure you have the opportunity to join the debate afterwards and respond to me, and I'm sure you have that right. So we simply went to Kiev, for example, to the city, which we could compare in Czech terms to Kladno. Half of this city was devastated by Russian bombs, rockets, half of the destroyed homes 30 percent irreversibly. We were at the airport in Hostomel, where one of the first landing parties took place, dozens of pieces destroyed by Russian technology, when Ukrajinec resisted in an incredible way. koneckonců all, this airport has also witnessed one of the many examples of Russian barbarism, the destroyed aircraft of Mriya, the largest aircraft in the world. Of course, they didn't have to destroy it, they only did it to cause further economic damage to Ukraine. Of course, the worst atrocities, the atrocities committed by the Nazi army, the murdering, the systematic killing of the population, took place in a nearby village in Buča, where the Russian army systematically killed the population - the Nazi methods of cleaning the country. That was this year, a few months ago. And here we are, we're talking about mistrust for the government, because you probably think it's just something that you have on TV, like pictures, or people are already bored, they're tired of looking at it. But that's reality. And if Putin can, he will give the same orders again. And to make no mistake, it was no mistake, it is a systematic method that Russian troops are advancing. That unit was awarded by the Russian President himself, and then they were sent back to the front to die somewhere in Donbas, and they couldn't talk about it. That's how it works, that's how it consumes people of the current Russian regime, that's the principle of Russian imperialism. I believe that Ukraine will win, and I believe that the Czech Republic and the Czech Government will help with the help we supply because it is in our own interest. The second priority after taking up my duties as Minister of Foreign Affairs was the submission of a sanction law, the so-called magnitský Law, to the government. We originally planned to work on this after the Presidency. After all, the situation in the world was not such that the penal law had a high priority, but after the invasion, we accelerated the work. I would like to thank the House has already discussed it at first reading and today the Foreign Committee has sent it to second reading. We're still waiting for the D.A.P. After all, to the extent of cooperation in security, it is probably worth pointing out that it was the two political parties that called the meeting today, YES and SPD, which brought about the possibility of adopting the penalty law at first reading. We could have already had a valid sanction law in place today, we could have already done it for the government, for the ministry. You have acknowledged that this security measure, when we prevent some persons from entering the Czech Republic or freezing their property, is often mentioned in connection with some of the Russian Federation's citizens, so we have enough time to talk about it here. We have enough time to conduct a mistrust hearing here for the government, don't worry, we'll take the time to do it for the government, we won't give up on that responsibility. And it's your business card in front of the voters, if you let the government work and defend the interests, or if you keep us here. But we're gonna make it. This sanction law will ensure better protection of human rights. I'm on it, and I guess some of you know that, he's been working as an MP in the last parliamentary term. Personally, it is a great challenge for me to bring this to an end, and I believe that this very specific point, which we have in the Government's programming statement, is for Mr Babiš to take into his table. So I believe that we will be able to do this and that we will certainly be able to put some of the persons or entities involved in terrorist activity or other such disgusting matters against human rights on that list. After all, I think that it is true as a relatively significant success of the Czech Republic, which makes us an international reputation that the Czech Republic has succeeded in replacing the Russian Federation in the UN Human Rights Council, the UN Human Rights Council. We really wanted to do this, I've been working on it a lot, let's say I lobbied, we contacted other states at different levels. We have also managed to get support from the Secretariat of the European Union, which means that we have actually had this power behind us. Although there was no opposition to us because it was an exceptional situation, we received strong support for the vote at the UN. I think it's thanks again to everyone who's been involved. And it is symbolic to some extent that we are replacing Russia, replacing an aggressor to promote a value policy that is clearly in the interests of the Czech Republic. There we will focus on traditional topics such as freedom of the media, freedom of assembly or association, possibly promoting cooperation with non-governmental organisations. I know that here at the SPD it almost means a dirty word, but I think that everyone who's been in some uncomfortable life situation has just given him a helping hand, so I'm very happy for that. It's not empty words to help the opposition. Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia, we have experienced 50 years of totalitarianism in the last 100 years. Without support from abroad, we would not be able to rise, return to Europe and become members of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, so let us respect and support democracy and values elsewhere in the world. It is in our own Czech interest. I'll repeat that as long as I can. In order to play a more active role in defending human rights, let us say, we have an even more ambitious step, in order to become President of this UN Human Rights Council next year. It is a position very prestigious, it is a post that allows us to determine and influence the agenda that will be discussed on this council. Luck is good for the ready, we said it ahead, we're looking for support. As it turns out, of course, I can't say at this point, but I think that in order to achieve something, it is necessary to have those healthy ambitions, and I consider this to be one of the healthy ambitions and I am working on what I can do. [[21.10 hours]] And, of course, the Czech Presidency - this is the Czech Presidency for which the government of Andrej Babiš was preparing to cut all budgets. There is, of course, left for the garden, so the garden is perfectly prepared for the Office of the Government thanks to its predecessor, Mr Babiš. But for us to have enough colleagues to do it in quotation marks, so we're sort of handling it today, we're doing it well luckily, but at the cost of a lot of stress. So we took over an imaginary relay stake from the Francouz and launched the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union. This employs us objectively as ministers and the entire ministry quite a lot at the moment. As a government, we have promised to deepen relations with the European Union and to restore the perception of the Czech Republic as a reliable and responsible partner, and this is clearly succeeding, so I would therefore expect Mr Babiš to take this into account in his table, although his perception of foreign policy is really far, far from how our government perceives it, and I will talk about this at the end of my speech. During the past eight months, I have also had a number of meetings and meetings in which we have just promoted these particular Czech interests and confirmed our cooperation there, friendly relations. Perhaps most often I deal with my counterparts from Slovakia, Austria, i.e. Central European partners within the so-called Slavkovsky format. There we made three trips together, twice to Ukraine, once to Moldova, this is a country that my counterpart in the Kremlin Lavrov just today or yesterday threatened to be next. Ukraine, Moldova, the Baltics, Poland, the Czech Republic, it's a list of countries that they have in Moscow - I don't know - somewhere on a yellow note glued like this, and that's how they're gonna tick it off if we don't do anything when we lock ourselves in when we stick our heads in the sand like an ostrich and think it's none of our business. The situation is really serious, it is really serious, which is why my speech is, let's say, more powerful than normal, and I see that now that we have this opportunity to discuss distrust with the government, so that it can be presented in a clear and understandable way. I had the opportunity to deal with foreign ministers - the USA, Great Britain, Germany, and of course we also have broader interests, which means - I don't know - since the visit to Morocco and so on. I am going to - these are future plans, we have a Presidency and a war now, so trips to other countries are a little bit behind - but I believe that a visit to, for example, an important country for the Indian region, India will be possible. I received an invitation from my counterpart, the Indian Minister of Foreign Affairs, when he was visiting in Prague, I very much appreciate it and I perceive that he is a future important partner for the Czech Republic and for Europe. We're working very hard on this. Then it's more technical stuff, digitalization. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, frankly, is not in good shape after the legacy of past governments with regard to IT systems. He's working on it. He does it every week at a meeting. I think it is not normal for the Minister to deal very closely with IT at the meeting every week, but we are moving forward in some way, moving in some way, and I believe that we will be able to meet my ambition to have a new version of the Drozd system, when Czech citizens are travelling abroad, to have a mobile app that will provide them with timely information before various risks, while respecting all the requirements of personal data management - I would like to stress this - will provide an opportunity to contact them, for example, if they agree to help citizens abroad. I would like to say that, for example, in a situation where the war broke out in Ukraine, this has worked well and we have communicated through these lists with citizens who, for example, wanted to get to safety or needed information that is verified because, in emergency situations, you have a lot of information on the Internet today, but the really verified information that is valid, these can primarily be secured by the Ministry and it is his task. And that last priority is economic diplomacy. We look forward, of course, to what creates the added value of the Czech Republic, what creates wealth, from which we pay pensions, from which we can develop, from which the Czech Republic will prosper, and this is science, research, innovation. I think that no one can doubt this government, which also has a special ministry for science, research and innovation - my colleague Helena Langšádlová is doing very well, I would also like to put this on record - so we host and support conferences, which are attended by experts from around the world. At random, we held a conference on space technologies that go incredibly forward. It might seem like it's something in the quotes in the stars, but it's a really developing field. Or we had an Innovative Forum from Israel, when scientists, academics, businessmen, start-ups from Israel came and connected in different areas with Czech counterparts. So I would like to make a clear declaration for the Government of the Czech Republic and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we know what we are doing in foreign policy, we know why we are doing this, we are doing this in the interests of the Czech Republic and Czech citizens, and we are clearly fulfilling the government's programming statement. We are not doing anything that we would not say in advance to this House when we were discussing trust for this government, and I do not understand - that is, I understand the populist reasons, but I do not understand why you decided to put the sticks under our feet today. It's irresponsible on your part, and I believe the public won't buy it. [[Laughter from the opposition.]] Before I close my speech, I made a few comments during Mr Babiš's speech, because it was a really incredible show, a bunch of lies, half-truth, fiction and stupidity, there is no other way to say it. I get it, he decided to have this populist model, that he'd just squirt, it'd all come out public, people would take over, and then some would applaud him for it. You guys broke the V4 - what's with the pardon for the nonsense! That's completely stupid. The four is not working because Orbánův Hungary took a different route from Poland, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia in support of Ukraine. Of course, we finally agree on a compromise in the European Union, but I don't think it's a coincidence that the Hungarian Foreign Minister is taking pictures with Tomio Okamura here, what does that say? So that's today's Hungary, that's today's Orbáno's Hungary, from which Andrej Babiš let himself be led as a puppet, roast cooked in Budapest during his premiere. And that is not really the sovereign policy of the Czech Republic. Andrej Babiš did not perform sovereign policies of the Czech Republic, to be led by Orbán, we do not need that. Petr Fiala doesn't have his puppeteers, neither do I. So when Andrej Babiš here tells us that you broke the V-4, it's really stupid. Same with Green Deal, that's about a thousand times a perverted lie. Of course, Green Deal was accepted with the consent of the government of Andrej Babiš and, at the same time, Andrej Babiš is defined against the Green Deal. Looks like a 1984 book to me. Energy - we're dealing with a lot of energy here, and I think Minister Síkela will talk about it, but I'd like to say that it was the last House that pushed the last government not to build a core with the Rus, and it was Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček, who pushed very hard to make the tender exactly so that Rosatom would do it. And if Rosatom was doing it, we're like Hungary today, and I don't want that, and I'm glad it doesn't turn out that way. I'm glad we do the core, we make it with a partner who's trustworthy, which is part of what I call the Western civilization circuit, with a partner who doesn't want to double-cross us, who doesn't want to occupy us, with a partner who's interested in our energy security. And today's situation and the situation that is coming clearly underscores that we need to address energy with the most trusted partners, and our government can do that, I have no doubt. [[21.20 hours]] We also solved the problem in Turów, which was triggered by the government of Andrej Babiš, who called on Andrej Babiš with his personal ego, when he simply broke up relations between the Czech Republic and Poland in an absolutely incredible way. Yes, perhaps we can look for some modalities, some details of the solution, it was a compromise of both sides, we solved it, and today we have excellent Czech-Polish relations and we are able to solve other issues. So how can he, the one who made it all go away, blame us? Those comments about Macron, that was really delirious, there's no other way to call it. We normally work with France. We will be preparing a European Community summit, which is Mr Macron's idea. So why are we listening here that these relationships are bad or what? After all, this is a sign of the highest possible trust. We personally dealt with Macron, had the opportunity to meet in Spain at the summit, where it was the Presidency that gave us symbolically. I would also like to mention two concrete achievements on the Presidency. There's one here to see Jozef Síkela. It was the Czech Presidency, which very successfully negotiated that the European Union agreed on those energy savings. That's 15 percent, to put it simply. When this meeting started, when it was being prepared, it certainly did not seem that the European Union would be able to agree on something like this. We have a good minister who has managed to lead us to this compromise, and we have a good team behind us at that moment. This is clearly the European success of this government. Another success. Access talks were initiated with Albania and a very strong North Macedonia approach was given. [[Promise?]] We are talking about the fact that there may be another outbreak of conflict in the Balkans. During our Presidency, concrete steps have been taken to give the Western Balkans clear signals that Europe has not forgotten it. Again, it is in the interests of the Czech Republic that it will be quiet there. It's in our own interest. We do it for the Czech Republic, we do it for Czech citizens. So please remember, before you're blaming us for all this again at another distrust meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u23	And I will allow myself to start a debate with this. And since, in the context of the debate, you can see, we have 37 speakers in the current debate, so it must be said that we have a number of requests with priority rights, in particular the ministers, so I would like to ask for the first one at the moment, and this is the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Jozef Síkela. And before the counter comes, I beg your pardon, Mr. Minister of Legislation and Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government of Mr. Michal Šalomoun from the House meeting at 21 o'clock... So right now, he's telling me he's canceling, so that's not true. And then I apologize to Mr Bernard, due to the illness of the whole of tomorrow's day 2. 9., and 2. 9. from midnight to the end of the day for a working reason, Mr Miroslav Zborovský. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Mr President, let me respond to you. You said my coalition speakers are still blaming your last government for inactivity. I've been sitting here almost the whole time. I've been here since 1:00, and with two short breaks, I've listened to almost all the speeches. The only one who was whining and making excuses for previous governments, on Sobotka, on Topolánek, on the fact that you couldn't do anything, was former Prime Minister Babiš. And I'm not making excuses for anyone tonight. Not on Clement Gottwald, not on Lubomír Štrougal, not on Václav Klaus, not even on the rule of Andrej Babiš. I will not respond to the speeches or to the former Prime Minister. To me, his contribution was kind of a daddy. He won't respond to you either, the untruths you've told. That's what I'm gonna keep, and I'm gonna keep you in one of the other TV shows. But now let me introduce you to the reports on the economic situation in one European country, whose name has been repeated here today. The exchange rate of the national currency in six months has weakened by almost 15%. The government was forced to release extremely oil reserves. There is discrimination against foreigners in purchases and flagrant violations of European Union law. The government was forced to declare an emergency. Traders are suing the state in a big way, and the government has been forced to introduce ration sales. I am, of course, describing Hungary and the tragic consequences of the shocking price of petrol and diesel there. And do you remember who advised us to proceed exactly the same way this spring at a time of high fuel prices? I quote: "The government must immediately put a stop to the price of petrol and diesel!" Andrej Babiš this March. "We would immediately put a stop to fuel prices." Karel Havlíček just before. I think that every little sane person today is glad that we disobeyed these advice. The lesson from this episode is to be cautious of the absolute populism that the opposition has introduced to us here, and to the Hungarian path, which is clearly its main inspiration. We all remember how Andrej Babiš came to support his friend Viktor Orbán before the election. We all heard who Tomio Okamura was looking at. But she doesn't end this Orbánův's journey by ceilinging fuel prices, Orbánův's journey also means going to Moscow and begging Putin for gas. If the YES movement were here today, in the coalition, I have no doubt that this would happen, and the world would be surrounded not only by the laughing Sergej Lavrov with the Hungarian minister, but also with you, Mr Havlíček, through the President Havlíček, or perhaps with Mrs Schillerová. And maybe there'd be peacocks. Hungary, a country that is an inspiration of the local opposition, is now cowering isolated at the edge of Europe's interest, and Hungarian ministers are at common EU negotiations at the point of hard remorse, that is, if anyone is talking to them at all, which was not the case at the last Council of Ministers for Energy. Our government rejected Orbánův's path clearly and clearly. Thanks to our activities, the Czech Republic is becoming an equal partner to the largest players in the European Union. Čech need no longer be ashamed of their representatives before the rest of Europe. Our government knows very well what the evil that is today is trying to damage Czech citizens and Czech businesses as much as possible. The evil is Putinův's energy war, his efforts to increase energy prices and his gradual cutting Europe off from gas supplies. [[21.30 hours]] And this begging problem in the Kremlin will not be solved. The best option we have is to ensure a decisive united action across the European Union, which can weaken Putinův's main weapon against us, our dependence on Russian gas. That is why we have become leaders of the Union's unified energy process. First, we succeeded in trying to ensure the European Union's energy security before winter. We are now the main engine of efforts to restore the functionality of the European energy market. The achievements that our initiatives celebrate have a fundamental impact on Czech citizens and Czech businesses. The Union's agreement on mutual solidarity in gas management will contribute to our efforts to ensure sufficient gas for the coming winter, and we have played a vital role in negotiating it. Even the influential Brussels media didn't believe we'd succeed in finding a match for this agreement. She called it Mission: Impossible. We have done this, and we are now working to ensure that this success continues. To get another piece. Current negotiations in order to bring electricity prices down are perhaps even more urgent. We are going into the negotiations with a clear idea of what we want to achieve. No more We will see. We exactly know, what we want. We know what to do and we know where we want to go. Our targets are at least two. First, the frozen energy market needs to be moved. Traders do not have enough money at current prices to pay the necessary bail, which prevents them from trading. There are only a small number of shops in the markets and they are so easy to manipulate. Secondly, we want to prevent Putin from determining not only the price of gas but also the price of electricity. As Russia pushes gas prices up, electricity prices also rise. We therefore want to prevent gas prices from determining electricity prices. And if, for example, we are discussing the release of allowances from the market of stability reserve, we will certainly not resist the debate. That puts the price of electricity under our control. We have managed to come up with this initiative at the right time, at a time when the whole of Europe feels the need to intervene in the energy market and restore its functioning. And it seems that markets believe us, too, because, after the Member States have managed to move, energy prices are experiencing a significant decline. The price of electricity fell by almost half in days, the price of gas by less than a third. But we are not only active in the European Union. I would not be afraid to say that we have also done more for Czech energy security in the last eight months than any other government has done since the Velvet Revolution. Let's talk about this one step at a time. We have secured enough nuclear fuel to be able to switch from Russian suppliers to companies from NATO countries. We have pushed through the first part of the capacity increase of the TAL pipeline, which will allow us to get rid of dependence on Russian oil in the future. We are now working on preparing a project for further expansion of this pipeline so that we can completely get by without Russian oil within two years. Of course, we are most busy with the effort to provide enough gas before the coming winter. In this respect, too, we have done more in favour of Czech citizens and Czech companies than we could have imagined in the spring. And we acted very logically. Firstly, we have done everything we can to buy as much gas as possible through very high gas prices. We have set our goal by the start of the heating season to achieve filling the bins at least 80 per cent and already we have exceeded 85 per cent. We even bought gas right behind us. It was 240 million cc's. And we did it at the right time, because if we reacted hysterically to the opposition's advice, we would pay a few billion extra for this gas. If we waited too long, we'd pay too much. I remember Mr. absent Tomio Okamura bringing me here and testing me to see if we bought the gas too expensive. This is how we have gas in storage tanks, which now has a market value of over CZK 15 billion. Including storage and transport, we paid only 8. We were aware from the beginning that the gas market in the Czech Republic is fully liberalized and that domestic storage tanks are also in private hands. That is why we have prepared legislation that solves this problem. For example, in case of emergency, it will not be possible to export gas outside the territory of our country. Our measures also prevent the blocking of unused gas storage capacities. As a result, we have expropriated the capacity belonging to Russian Gazprom, which did not use it. Last but not least, we have ensured the possibility of receiving gas supplies from suppliers other than Russia. That is why, in cooperation with ČEZ, we have secured a share in the floating LNG terminal in Holland, which will allow us to replace up to one third of Russian gas supplies. I personally discussed this possibility with Dutch representatives, especially Minister Jetten and Mr Habeck Vermeulen, who is a member of the board of directors of Gasunie, who is the operator of the said terminal, and next week I will probably go with Prime Minister Fiala and German Vice Chancellor Habeck for the opening ceremony of this terminal. The result of our actions is that Czech citizens and Czech companies will have enough gas for the upcoming heating season. That was a perfectly logical first step. The logical second step is to ensure acceptable prices of raw materials and energy, and that is what we are working on now. However, we also need to maintain a logical procedure in this case. This means that we focus more on correcting the reasons for the market failure than on its consequences. The remedy for the cause of the problems is our described initiative at European Union level. However, we are also prepared for a sensible treatment of the consequences. That is why, with the STAN movement, we have proposed extending aid to companies and households with high energy prices. In addition, we also finalize the establishment of a state energy trader to help purchase public institutions and self-governments. To repeat the whole thing, we have a plan, and we're following it. We've secured enough raw materials, we've timed the state gas purchase right by making us billions. Now we're dealing with prices. In a reasonable way, we are treating the consequences while addressing the causes at European level. Because at European level, these causes have also arisen. It was I who first began to speak publicly about this pan-European solution and the need to convene an extraordinary Energy Council. And even this was very good timing, because until last week the rest of Europe was not willing to solve this problem too much. What didn't we do? Let's talk about what our government has decided not to do. We hear a whole range of simple recipes based on half-truths, untruths, or pure disinformation on the air. And this misinformation is becoming an increasingly powerful weapon of Russian dictator Putin, who is trying to break our social peace. The main recipe is the supposed possibility to put a cap on electricity prices across the board. Do you know how much that would cost taxpayers to compensate for? Count me in. [[21.40 hours]] The Czech Republic consumes about 60 million megawatt hours of electricity per year. The price of one megawatt hour of electricity is now around CZK 15,000. For reducing the price to the June limit of CZK 5,000, if we offset the price difference for all, taxpayers would pay around CZK 600 billion. Approximately as much as the state budget spends annually on pensions, and it is more than ten times the cost of our country's budget for defence. No, we really don't have electricity prices for that kind of way, and we won't, even if we nationalized Agrofert with Cap's nest and castle on the French Riviera. In terms of foresight, there is also another seemingly simple solution, i.e. keep Czech electricity for Czech use and get out of the single European market. While we export electricity, gas, oil, coal, and other raw materials, potentially scarce raw materials, we import electricity, and we cannot afford to have other countries follow our example and stop delivering them to us. No, as much as I wish, this situation does not have a simple, fast, marketing-efficient solution. This situation needs to be worked out, and that is exactly what we are doing. Finally, I'll add one. Eleven days ago, we commemorated the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty troops headed by the Soviet Union into Czechoslovakia. This invasion killed not only our parents, it destroyed the lives and dreams of Czechoslovak citizens into a better future turned into nightmares. We were alone at the time, and we didn't have a chance to defend ourselves from this invasion. The Ukrainian nation is more fortunate today. In the first days, the Russian invasion was bravely defended and then rushed the West with us to help. And we can rightly be proud of that. However, we must not forget that innocent people continue to die in Ukraine. Old people, women and children die there. Now that we're talking to dedicated military experts, there's one thing we hear from them: that Russia is running out of breath. According to them, the Rus weren't prepared for such a long conflict, and their only chance is to decompose Europe during this winter. That's why they're waging an energy war against her, piling up prices, and threatening to disconnect from energy. They not only want to punish us for our support to Ukraine, but they are trying to break the local social peace, put one against another, the public against the government. And unfortunately, in the Czech Republic, the Rus have found many conscious and ignorant allies. Please note that whoever is using this situation for his own business or spreading a bad mood for his own political career is really succeeding in achieving one thing: helping Russia achieve its goal of dividing us and our social reconciliation. But I and our government will continue to do everything we can to protect Czech citizens and Czech businesses from Putinův's energy war, but also to keep Russia from winning. But I want to stress one last thing. We are all aware in the government that the current situation is extremely difficult. It's complicated for citizens, it's complicated for companies. It is totally obscure for the vast majority of people, which makes them even more prone to listen to misinformation. Let us remember that Čech can criticize the government. To say what they like, to write what they want, where they want, to demonstrate what they think is appropriate. Try this in Russia and actually try it in Hungary. All of this allows us the liberal democracy that Putin and his followers are attacking. And that's what we have to defend. We understand public indignation, we understand discontent. But like the Ukrajinec, there is hope that the Rus will drive them out of their country, and if we can stick together, we can handle this fight. I think that the current situation is well described by several sentences that former President Václav Havel made not long before his death. "There is a kind of gap between politics and the public. That's not good. However, I believe that will change over time. These are such fluctuations that are known and described in all democracies. And when it's the stupidest thing, it'll suddenly start to turn to the better. I believe that everything will end well and that certain things have meaning. It can appear and fill up with great delay. But no one should be disturbed by that." Now it's really bad, we know it and we're all going through it. But I assure you, I and the entire government are doing everything they can to make this turn for the better as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u25	Your contribution raised two factual points. The first is Mr Juchelka and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Two minutes is yours, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u26	Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you so much for this speech by the Member, Minister Síkela. We agree on a lot of things, of course, and we have done a lot of things, which, of course, this government has proposed. We voted in favour of all the resolutions, we know that Putin is an aggressor, he attacked Ukraine, we voted in favour of any military assistance proposed by this government, and of course we do not have to talk about it. But we must talk about the future of the Czech Republic. About the future of companies in the Czech Republic, about the future of citizens. So if you're saying, for example, that we're in an energy war, and I'm saying yes, we are, it's true, then why doesn't this government defend Czech companies and Czech citizens from this war? What kind of weapons does he use? What does he do with the prices to keep Czech companies from falling? Does that mean that those companies that failed because of their high energy prices are actually the victims of this government's incompetence here, this conflict? So we're actually slashing our heads here instead of defending ourselves, how do other states in the European Union do it, and maybe they've put a stop to energy prices? Everything is beautifully foggy in beautiful, beautiful, wonderful statesmen's words, but we have learned nothing but what any government that sits here would do logically as you described it, Minister. This means that it would fill the bins, which means that it would act at European level. But you're doing all this with a few months' delay, and you're just gonna let it happen here in this war, where you're not giving any defense to Czech citizens and Czech companies, those Czech companies and Czech citizens bite at incredible energy prices. So where's the defense when we're at war in that case? What do you do for it? Are you doing what everyone else would do? You're filling magazines, that's logical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mrs Berenika Peštová, which should be the last point of fact at the moment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u28	I'll be very brief, very fast. In part, Mr Juchelka has already said something before me. Anyway, I think I'm in a different meeting. I thought this meeting, or this extraordinary meeting, was a meeting about us calling it up because of the government's mistrust, but I'm listening here to the distrust of the opposition! What's that? Like you, you blame us for everything! [[21.50 hours]] I don't understand. Like you guys are laughing, but it doesn't seem very funny to me. As I hear here from the Minister's mouth, Putin is responsible for our high energy. How is Putin responsible for having high electricity? What does Putin have to do with this? I understand that Putin, yes, Putin may have a problem, or virtually. We can put it on the gas. I understand that. I understand the gas. But what does he have to do with the Lipsky Stock Exchange? What's he got to do with this? Like you, you're always hiding behind something, but tell these people what to prepare for, what to do. I don't know if you did, but I already got the bills. And I can tell you, my eyes were out. Blowing my eyes out and what I'm gonna pay for electricity every month. I don't know about you, but I'll pay 16,000 a month. You think that's not enough? I don't think that's enough. And these people are exactly the same as I am. Well, finally tell these people the way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Another one with the factual remark is Mr Juchelka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u30	Thank you so much again. I will add this, because, of course, there was talk here about how Minister Síkela was helping these citizens through the energy package. And I'm just saying, and I said it that day, Minister, I'm sorry, yeah, but you said somewhere on TV I heard it 14 days ago, that the energy package was being prepared with you, I don't know, 65 experts, distributors, some people who are involved in the energy. And you brought that energy package to the citizens waiting for it, here to the Chamber of Deputies, where at 9 o'clock the Economic Committee was meeting. He looked at it from the floor because he didn't know what it was because he hadn't read it before, he had to take a break one hour to get to know it quickly, what you had been preparing with those 65 energy experts for months. And then at 11 o'clock, you came up with this package in front of the Chamber of Deputies, where you came all the way to the end, and you came to ask for our votes to support it. We just didn't know what it was and what it was, we just had to trust you. And at this point, we see how late the entire energy package is, first of all, because the prices are, of course, rising, how you treat citizens, that you are telling them completely different amounts - your deputy, you, the finance minister - so they have hockey and chaos, because they don't know how much you're actually contributing to them until now. And here you say and talk about some help. I am totally looking because you will cover everything up at the end and allow yourself to take advantage of the words of Václav Havel here precisely to cover up your absolute incompetence in the way in which you are specifically supposed to help Czech citizens and Czech companies. They're falling and cutting because you're not helping in this energy war.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u31	Time, Mr. Ambassador. We have two minutes. Thank you for keeping time. We have three factual points here. Mr Nacher, then Mr Brabec and then Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u32	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I was down there preparing a speech for today, where I wanted to focus mainly on the double standard of the whole thing. That's what I'm supposed to do here. However, I have now begun to redo it, and I will give it more to Minister Síkel, because it is absolutely incredible what has been said here. But I couldn't stand it now, so I volunteered and I'm gonna say something now. First, one of the previous speakers said something about it, or it was written on Twitter that someone was writing us these speeches, and then we're going to read them here. Well, as far as I can tell, the minister was reading this, the whole speech. I don't read it, I have notes, and I'm not gonna read it, I'm gonna watch it. Well, since you're beating us up like this, don't read the speeches yourself. It's in your head, you know. But you read the answers, for example, when I asked you about the interpelling, so I asked you about the average price of the megawatt hour we sell on the lip exchange and for which we buy back, and you read me a speech that the Ministry of Industry wrote to you about the European Union's energy policy. So you're reading these things, but you're gonna tell us here that we have written lyrics. Secondly, you're saying that experts. Well, I've been to several conferences, including the CTU, and there the experts have a completely different opinion than what you're saying here. They repeatedly say that, and they've been saying it since February - the exact same thing. And some things you'll come up with, but with a huge delay. That's what it takes to forgive the fee. And one final point. I don't know what that's like, who's got a different opinion than you, so he's on Putin's arm. Then we're really not getting anywhere, which means you're gonna be absolutely right and no one can criticize you. That's the result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u33	Time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry to interrupt you like this right now, but since there's a really large amount of still logged in, we have to go right on time. I'll ask Mr. Brabco. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, Patrik Nacher took it a little out of my mouth with the last sentence, but I will finish the idea. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister Lipavský, also said so, and the Minister of Industry said so again. And I ask, folks, where do you get the audacity to accuse us who have the full right to criticize the government as an opposition, that if we allow ourselves to say anything against you, we are supporters of Putin? I'll tell you, gentlemen, who is the supporter of Putin at the moment when I take this logic. Minister, especially industry, Supporter Putin is the one who can or will allow an absolute collapse of public finances, here to cause thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of households to fall into poverty, which you are working hard on. You didn't move until, of course, after the captains and your coalition partners and others kicked you, and here it sounded like everything was totally fine, that we just didn't make any mistakes. And anyone who dares to say one word is Putin's supporter. Oh, my God, where are we? You know I'm normally calm and I try to turn it into a joke, most of my contributions. But this isn't possible. Like you here, I think you're already, Minister of Industry, one of the few in this House, and I think even in the coalition that you think you have it in hand, the Ministry, that you're doing it right. But I must say, I'm very jealous of your confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u35	Thank you for keeping the limit. The other is Mrs Peštová - still factual. Then please Mr Lochman, if he would prepare himself, and then Mr Král. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u36	I'm sorry, but the reaction in this time of the coalition that just came in, which, of course, took a picture of us sitting here the whole time and there were empty lines and there were almost no ministers behind us, so it got me pretty much. I don't think it's funny that you think it's funny. Waiting for some 9th of September is fine. But why haven't we done anything since March? Like all of us, we know that the gas started sometime last November. Last November, some companies crashed, which of course were gas distributors. And that's when it started, and it went up gradually. As far as electricity is concerned, we are somewhere in February, in March, when draconian prices began to rise. And we're waiting for some September? All the states around us responded, they shredded, they had a solution. And we're waiting for September 9th? I don't know if you're talking to the companies, but maybe I'm talking to them. And they're already... Those aren't questions for months. Those are the questions of the days. They just can't survive. And there's only the first company that's gonna fail, and it's gonna go like dominoes. madeta's been screaming for how long? And how's that funny to you? It doesn't look ridiculous to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I'll ask Mr Lochman. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we finally got into the debate. Dear friends, I would like to respond through the President to Mr Brabec. You said Minister Síkela wanted to disrupt public finances. Well, I'd just like to take a look at the rating of the SAO for 2021. I just read it in the media. The previous government received an overwhelming assessment from the SAO for the budget of 2022, a warning that the Czech Republic has indebted most of all countries from Europe. You've done that. [[2.00 hours]] What didn't you do? You couldn't get Rosatom here into the tender, and as hard as it was for you, to our nuclear power plants. What didn't you do? You could not provide a pipeline from Poland to be more independent from Russia. And, my colleague, through the President, who has been screaming so emotionally about Putin having nothing to do with energy, please look at how much gas has flowed into Europe and how much is not flowing now. So soon to begin, and I believe that we will have a fruitful discussion and that all the proposals that Minister Síkela and the Ministry of the MIT have prepared, which, I hope, will begin to turn into another level of action after 9 September, because we know that there is, I hope, a ceiling at European level, there is also the creation of a so-called single buyer, a state trader, so that will be the steps that will lead to energy stability. And we also have an economical tariff. And all that matters is how much we pour into it to contribute to people. By the way, when I still have 15 seconds, I didn't find anything about you wanting to nationalize CEZ's critical energy infrastructure in any way. Nothing like this has happened, and now we hear about it, but we don't know what's been going on for eight years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping the time and the next envoy is Mr Král, Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I've decided that I may be more than usual losing the performances here today. And I have to say, what's going on here is really irresponsible. And whether it sounds from coalition or opposition benches, here I must give the truth to Minister Síkel. Any ceiling will simply lead to the destruction of public finances and it does not matter whether we do it at national level or at European level. If we want to look for a solution, the solution is different. The solution is in the resources. And that, at the moment that regulation and a pre-taxed market just brought us into this situation, where Putin really isn't responsible for everything, as well as solving the problem, we want to put on hyperregulation and hyperdotation, so it's only going to make the situation worse. And I think the Federal Republic of Germany is convinced that it is simply the German Energywende that is going nowhere, and I think it is time to look for a truly backup national solution when it fails in Europe, and I think it will fail. And if he doesn't fail, he won't be fast. And here I would really like to call on both coalition and opposition colleagues to try to really rise above the problem and proceed together, just as we were able to promote the taxonomy of the nucleus, gas. Do not forget that, in the Economic Committee, in the Committee on the Environment, we have jointly pushed through the resolution to temporarily slow down the diversion from the energy use of coal. Let us not forget that, for the first time in the history of perhaps the Chamber of Deputies, we have managed to push through committees the issue of so-called yellow cards, where we have tried to stop nonsense in matters such as the reduction of methane emissions in the energy sector, common rules for the internal market for renewable gases and industrial emissions. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u41	Please, your time is up, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u42	That's where the road leads. It's about the cooperation of the opposition and the energy coalition, otherwise we won't get any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u43	I beg you to keep your time. Mrs Peštová is now registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u44	Only briefly to my foreman in front of a Member of the Král. I was talking about electricity. First of all. And while I'm having fun, and now I'd like to make a fluent connection to Mr. Král. We all know where the buried dog started. It started with emission allowances. I listened to the Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, a year ago, as he spoke, how he would try to make sure that the emission allowances, I say, were covered, but that he would simply address them. We're in a situation today that nothing's going on. Poland is the only one trying to solve them. Poland is currently in the position that its proposal has been rejected, or there is no will in terms of emission allowances, whether they will be suspended for two years or if they will be cancelled. It's just that the designs were falling. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. So we all know that it was spinning and it started to revolve around emission allowances. The emission permit has come into the hands of speculators. Originally, perhaps the meaningful proposal that was there that issuers should have the emission allowance, which is quite logical, issuers should have emission allowances, so they got into the hands of speculators. The emission allowances jumped up to a hundred euros per tonne of CO2 and we're right where we are. And that's how it all started. But I don't hear anything from the government. I can't hear her starting to solve the problems. And what I've been getting hot here and screaming or not screaming, I raised my voice a little bit when I heard Minister Válek, so I was still very quiet, as he was flamingly speaking here, so I'm just waiting for a solution. But it's not just me that's what these people are expecting, because they really got the bills. And the bills are draconian. They're draconian to them. You have electricity, you have gas, then when you add it up, you put the rent on it, so these people don't know what they're gonna do anymore. [[Your time is up.]] And I say the solution is 9 September, which is too late.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u45	Mr Martin Exner is now registered with the factual remark and Mr Kubíček will be prepared. Everything so far is factual. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u46	Good evening. I would like to explain to Mrs Peštová, through Madam President, how Putin is responsible for the energy crisis. First, the electricity has a connection to the gas, that the gas is used to produce electricity. It's one of the sources, and of course if you have a gas boiler at home and there's a lack of gas, you can convert it quite simply into an electric boiler. Similarly, companies can do so at a slightly worse cost. Putin, Russia, supplied 40 per cent of gas, 27 per cent of diesel and 46 per cent of coal to the European Union. If part of these supplies stopped and gas preferred to burn, then of course there was a shortage. The shortage increases prices. Putin was preparing for war. He's already waged an energy war by supplying zero gas to spot markets in 2021, only carrying out long-term contracts, and then, of course, gradually reducing it to date. So this is how gas is connected with electricity, and this is how Putin caused a lack of energy - both electricity and gas, and an increase in oil in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Kubíček is now signed in and followed by Mr Král. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All I can say is that I would have left Putin Putin by now, and the energy crisis was creeping towards us gradually, slowly, and because, through yours, I have known Vašek Král for a very long time, we have common views on that. It caused more factors. It was an unsubstantiated Electriwenge in Germany that couldn't secure the resources to replace the fossil resources, and they went full-blown. [[Energywend?]] Then it appeared that they were very dependent on the production of electricity from the gas, where they counted on this in their programs, and no one counted on any war from Putin, but the gas contracts were actually the basis of the green policy. And nowadays, we should be more concerned about how to replace it and how to get it, and I'm pointing out one thing. We have one source of electricity, it's called coal, and we have to make it an advantage, not a disadvantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u49	A Member of the Král is now signed in with the facts. So far the final de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u50	Shortly to Mrs Peštová, by mouth or through the President, the President. I don't want to be sneaky, it's not going anywhere, and I don't want to push this debate any further, but let's remember when the issue with the emission allowances you're talking about arose. It was created in 2018, when there was a revision of the emissions trading system of the EU ETS, and unfortunately, or thankfully, I don't know, at that time the government of Andrej Babiš was there, who simply left it unnoticed, perhaps it would be to just go through this mistrust and you were there to set the conditions. Unfortunately, you did nothing about it even in a situation where you were actually repeatedly pointed out, including the aspects and consequences it would bring. Of course, I can prove that at any time because I have repeatedly participated in these negotiations. [[22.10 hours]] You didn't do anything for it back then, and I'm glad we heard from Minister Síkela's mouth today that our government wants to do something about emission allowances. To this point, we have only heard that, at European level, there is simply no will. Of course, Spain, Poland, Hungary and other states oppose the cessation of trading in emission allowances, and I would very much like us to join this step as the Presidency. Without that, we can ceiling anything, we can make the tariffs we want, and the emission pass will just catch up with us. If we burn more coal, as my previous speaker Kubíček said, then the price of coal will go up logically, and therefore the price of allowances, that means that in the finals we will not make anything at all in quotation marks. And the long-term contracts, Mr. Colleague. Well, nobody wanted them. We just let ourselves think that spot trading is the most advantageous thing we can have, and long-term contracts just weren't dealt with. And if I want to be sneaky again, then neither did the previous government, as well as that, and let's just say that the current government doesn't actually solve that. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u51	It is now registered with Mrs Peštová's factual remark and is followed by Mr Müller. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u52	I am on those emission allowances, Mr Member, through Madam President. Of course, they now have the will to deal with the states, but they didn't have that will. You have to be fair again, that really standing alone in the field, that's very little. But at the moment, there are those states that really want to deal with it, and Poland is now starting. So I expect that we will join Poland and that Poland will not be there again as a stake in the fence and that we will join it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u53	Mr Müller is now registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u54	Good evening. I'll follow Mrs. Peštová here through the lecturer. [[Fun in the hall.]] No, the President. Yes, I'm sorry. I am not as skilled as you, colleagues, but I certainly think that, as the Czech Republic, we will join the revision of emission allowances. I think we are aware of that, and we are also aware of that, and I think who is moving in the energy sector, that there is a need to address the cause. And we will only solve the cause at the level of the European Union, where we are actually leaning on that date, you are right 9. 9. where there is a consensus, it is certainly foreseen, where European states take a slightly different position than they did a month ago, two years ago, and they really all realize that the energy crisis is here. Another thing we have to do at national level, and we have made it an economical tariff. I certainly wasn't laughing, and I'm not laughing at people's bills, and I'm not kidding about it, and I'm fully aware of it. And we've agreed to the cost-effective tariff here. There may have been some problems, and some amendments have been put on the table until the very day before the discussion, I acknowledge that, but we all agreed on this, I think, on the Economic Committee we discussed it, there was a break, and the austerity tariff allows us to give people more resources to help. I think the government is also aware of this, and by the start of the heating season, or during September, it will be clear how much money will be there. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u55	Your performance raised further factual points. Mrs Peštová and then Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u56	I promise that now on this point, or on this performance, it will be my final point of fact. I would love to know how far the regulation is. It's the regulation, the implementing regulation that shows life. We haven't learned anything until now, so I don't know if it's already in the inter-reort, after the inter-reort, whether it's settled, whether the government already has it, whether the government has already agreed or not, or at least has a shot. We're just talking about it, but the regulation hasn't seen the light yet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u57	It is also signed up with Mr Nacher in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to follow up on a colleague of the Král, who basically here was the only one who said, as it was, he went critically into his own government, because that is the real state of the matter. We here with colleague Exner, through you, are not here to argue whether it was Putin or not. We are arguing about what is being done against what is being done to ensure that the electricity and gas prices are not so high and that they do not crush the citizens. And since February, we've been saying these things over and over again - about emission allowance trading since February, about long-term contracts, when we're the only country that's dependent on gas on Russian gas, so we don't have a long-term contract as a single country. [[unintelligible]] That's what we've been talking about since February. Nothing's changed about this here. Forgive the charges for supporting renewable resources, we also propose this. It even lies here in the House. That means these are the things that lie here, but either you don't come over to them at all, or you make them late. That's the problem. And 24 countries out of 27, we say it all the time, I in every television show, 24 out of 27 countries have taken some kind of measure, which you call a stencil measure, which you are so terribly prevented from introducing anyway. That's what we're talking about here, colleague. And then you'll always blame it on Putin, but we're talking about what the government can do. And 24 out of 27 governments did something. And you're making excuses, now there's a new excuse for a Europe-wide solution. And if he doesn't, he'll what?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Král's point of order, followed by Mr Müller. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u60	My colleague Nacher, through you, Madam President. We don't listen to each other. You're talking about the fact that you've been alerting the government since February, but I was just talking about the fact that we, as energy experts, have been alerting the last government for years, months and weeks, and that nothing has been done about it. So let's skip this, as if this topic, let's move on with this discussion, because it's really going nowhere, and it just needs to be said here that Putin isn't responsible for everything, and that the situation we've gotten into is caused by a bunch of wrong political decisions, that is - and nothing else. And those decisions were ours. It was at European or national level, and that means that politics once again has the key to dealing with the situation. And here we really need to focus not only on the allowances, but also on the resources that we have here. Please, let us not forget that we are still an energy power until we shut down the coal thermal power plants, which we approached very closely with the memorandum of 15 July, which CEZ signed with the Ministry of the Environment, declaring that by 2030 or 2035 we would simply shut down the coal power plants. Let us not forget that since 2019, colleagues from the opposition, CEZ has ended the capacity of more than 2,200 MW of coal, only last year it was 500, and you have also done nothing about it. So let's see what we can do about the situation in the future. Let's take advantage of the fact that these capacities are still here, that we have a lot of experts here who just know what to do with it. And the European solution, my friends. Spain, France, Germany and so on as it sounds here, they have already intervened at national level and found the solution. [[Time!]] And are they smaller or larger Evropan than us?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u61	Mr Müller and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u62	Good evening. I think that, of course, this needs to be dealt with at a European level. Mr Nacher, through the President, I have also said this, and I am sure the Minister has also said that, even at that national level, we have created an austerity tariff. And part of that austerity tariff is forgiveness for renewables, for every megawatt hour. This is what we do at the national level. Maybe we got the wrong idea, so I'm explaining it. This is at national level. We also plan to set up a single buyer. And another thing, that's really dealing with the cause, and that's at a European level, I remind you. I guess that's where we're gonna deal with it. 9. I just wanted to explain that. [[22.20 hours]] Maybe we're having a bad time here. I don't know. You're laughing. But all I'm saying is that we don't get pushed around here, that we don't do anything at the national level. We've made an economical tariff, we're dealing with a single buyer, a state trader, so we can just offer them a price for municipalities, cities. In fact, there will be a contribution for companies, entrepreneurs. This is what we do at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u63	It is now registered with Mrs Peštová in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u64	I'm sorry. If the MP didn't say anything, I wouldn't get out. But I said, where is the government's order, which is the implementing regulation of what you say will be put into practice in life? Where is he? How are you gonna do that? Where's the government order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u65	There is no factual point, so we are going back to the debate where Minister Bek is registered with priority rights. Before he gets out, I will make another apology, Mr Milan Wenzl, on account of his illness, on 2 January. 9. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the House's opposition for this refreshing opportunity to sum up the government's actions to date in the area of European cooperation, which, however remotely it may sometimes appear to domestic observers, actually has a major impact on life in our country. In the case of a medium-sized Member State such as the Czech Republic, the power of its voice in the European debate is mainly derived from the respect it takes actively and how skillfully it can negotiate with its partners. In the 18 years since we joined the European Union, this ability has been transformed within the European Community. Sometimes our role was more active and visible, sometimes we remained more on the verge of European action. However, I dare say that no Czech government has so far taken over the governance of European affairs from its predecessors in such a precarious condition as our cabinet at the end of 2021. That is, just six months before the start of the second Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Although we have heard a lot of strong words about promoting Czech national interests, the real negotiating position of the previous government was actually weak. Is this surprising in a situation where the former Prime Minister was in a flagrant conflict of interest, plus criminally prosecuted on suspicion of damaging the European Union's financial interests? When was his main European programme primarily his personal gain? In a situation where his rhetoric for the home audience was dramatically different from what he said on the soil of EU institutions. When the closest European allies sought among governments that openly profess the concept of illiberal democracy and are balancing at the very edge of European standards of the rule of law. The course of these circumstances has contributed to the fact that the Czech Republic has gradually shifted its awareness of the European partners between countries that are difficult to rely on and cannot be expected to make a constructive contribution to shaping the common European future. Therefore, if I am to talk about success in European cooperation, I must begin by reminding you that from the outset all efforts made by the government in this area are conducted in accordance with the programme statement seeking to return the reputation of a reliable and respected partner to the Czech Republic. Only with such a profile can we act as an active player in the 27 Member States. Trust is easily lost while getting it back is usually a difficult and long-term process. I believe, however, that thanks to the enormous efforts of the entire government, we can already watch the perception of the Czech Republic within the European Union change. In the first months of its term of office, the government has already taken fundamental steps towards this change, as it has been able to quickly adopt a clear position on Russia's aggression in Ukraine and to promote its position consistently and effectively between European states. At the same time, it has reflected a new geopolitical situation in the priorities of the forthcoming Presidency, which has consulted widely with representatives of most Member States. When we started the second Czech Presidency two months ago, we knew that there was no easy task ahead. After the first period, we can say with certainty that we have been honored to carry out this task so far. The government has achieved a number of tangible results and we are fulfilling what we have set our priorities to achieve. During the first month of the Presidency, Czech politicians and diplomats managed to achieve a number of achievements, whether they were proposals approved by the ministers of the Member States, a consensus at the level of ambassadors or negotiations with the European Parliament. It was the Czech Presidency that moderated the debate during more than 200 negotiations and moved it to concrete results. The Czech negotiators achieved the greatest success at the end of July. During the record six days after the Commission's proposal was presented, they were able to negotiate an agreement to reduce gas consumption. At its extraordinary meeting, it was approved almost unanimously by the energy ministers of the countries of the European Union. Fifteen percent of the gas savings are only voluntary so far under the agreement, but if there is an acute shortage, they will become mandatory. The objective of the Council regulation adopted is to reduce the European Union's dependence on Russian gas, which is used as a weapon in order to divide the twenty-seven. Another tangible success in the field of energy was the European Parliament's vote on the delegated act in taxonomy in the European Parliament at the beginning of July, which supported the inclusion of nuclear energy and natural gas among transition sources of energy. Although this was not the work of the Council itself, but of the European Parliament, the Czech representatives on behalf of the Presidency also entered into negotiations with key representatives of the European Parliament and influenced the resulting vote in favour of both the European compromise and the Czech interests. In the coming weeks, the role of the Czech Presidency in coordinating European action in the field of energy will be absolutely crucial. The negotiations of European solutions that last months in peacetime require lightning speed and vigor in the current turbulent situation. The Czech Presidency has quickly adapted to this need and coordinates the 27th in day-to-day direct contact with the European Commission and key Member States. In response to rocket energy price growth, the Presidency decided to convene another extraordinary Council of Energy Ministers on 9 September. A clear priority of the Czech Presidency is the assistance of war-torn Ukraine. The ambassadors of the Member States therefore have already approved the seventh penalty package under Czech leadership. Russia should continue to weaken economically and thus support Ukraine in the fight. The extended measures include, inter alia, a ban on the import of gold of Russian origin into the European Union, the freezing of Sberbank's assets or the imposition of sanctions on other individuals and entities actively supporting Russian aggression. At the same time, the EU states agreed in their conclusions on foreign manipulations with information and interference that they would intensify their activity in the fight against hybrid threats that threaten the European Union not only by Russia. In addition to sanctions, the Council of the European Union also approved further macro-financial assistance to Ukraine amounting to EUR 1 billion. In addition, the war-torn country will receive military material for another EUR 500 million. Since the end of February, Ukraine has received a total of €2.5 billion in defence. Thanks to Czech diplomacy, the accelerated procedure has also managed to approve a measure that allows the continued use of driving licences issued in Ukraine. In practical terms, the daily life will be simplified not only by millions of refugees but also by authorities that will not have to issue new driving licences. Czech diplomats also managed to negotiate the common position of all Member States on the FAST-CARE proposal. It aims to further assist the regions of the European Union, which have adopted a large number of refugees from Ukraine or are facing the adverse economic effects of Russia's aggression. The proposal should simplify the easing of European finances in this area. The Czech Presidency will start discussing it with the European Parliament in the autumn. [[22.30 hours]] In the context of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, support for neighbouring Moldova is also important. Under the Czech baton, the Council adopted a regulation which temporarily liberalizes trade in seven Moldovan agricultural products. Moldova may, for a period of one year, at least double their exports to the European Union without any customs duties. Interior ministers have also officially launched a platform to support Moldova on security issues. The Czech Presidency has also achieved success in the digital field. During the eight-hour negotiations with the European Parliament, which ended in the morning, they managed to agree on a digital decade programme. This includes objectives for the digital transformation of the European Union by 2030, which relate not only to the digitalisation of businesses and public services but also to increasing the digital skills of citizens. The agreement was then unanimously confirmed by EU ambassadors. The Foreign Affairs Council also approved conclusions on digital diplomacy in July. On their basis, the European Union will actively promote universal human rights and fundamental freedoms in the digital environment and access to digital technologies aimed at man. The Czech Presidency will also be forever associated with the historic day for the Western Balkans. On 19 July, accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania began at the Intergovernmental Conference. After long years of waiting, both candidate countries can finally start negotiating individual accession chapters, which is a big step on their way to the European Community. Integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union is one of the long-term priorities of Czech foreign policy and the Czech Presidency. Two major advances were also made in the area of finance in July. Ministers have given final consent to Croatia's accession to the euro area. It is still waiting for the approval of all the governments of the Member States before the Czech Presidency starts negotiating with the European Parliament in September, whose approval is also necessary. Czech negotiators were also able to find an agreement on the mandate to discuss Member States with the European Parliament on general product safety. It is an update of older legislation, which no longer meets the requirements for today's digital standards. At the July Council on Agriculture and Fisheries, ministers also adopted conclusions on aquaculture. Ten years after the last meeting of the Association Council between the European Union and Israel, the ministers of the European Union agreed to renew these meetings and to launch their preparations. The intensive work of politicians and diplomats was not only reflected in Brussels, but also at informal meetings in Prague. Many of these informal ministerial meetings also hosted partners from Ukraine or the countries of the associated trio. On these, it has opened up many other topics, such as strengthening the fight against child sexual abuse, protecting nature and biodiversity, digitising international judicial cooperation, increasing added value, innovativeness and competitiveness, investing in research or strengthening the resilience of democratic institutions. For an overall idea of what we have been through, I will add some data showing the intensity of activity in this area to date. Four Councils of Ministers took place in Brussels, eight informal Councils of Ministers in Prague, nine meeting of ambassadors, eight trialogues, 23 presentations of priorities in the European Parliament, including the Prime Minister's speech to plenary and 235 meetings of working groups. I believe that the next equally successful presidential month awaits us in the fall. But, of course, it is not just the Presidency's six months into which the government invests its efforts in the area of European cooperation. We have a number of others ahead of us, for example, at the Presidency of Independent Tasks, to promote systematic preparation of Czech positions for individual proposals and the processing of quality analyses of expected impacts. We have the task of promoting the effective use of European funds or improving the ability to apply for funds from centrally managed programmes. All of these issues will be intensively addressed during or immediately after the end of the Presidency. Finally, let me summarize the most important thing that the government has managed to achieve in the area of European policy over the past eight months. The Czech Republic, from its outsider position on the European periphery, where it has been able to return as a satellite of Orbán's illiberal democracy in recent years as a result of an unsolved conflict of interest, a non-solid approach to the problems of other countries and the closing of its eyes over violations of the rule of law, to a mainstream European policy where it can form a functional alliance, according to the relevant national interests not only within the Visegrad Group, but within the whole European Union in supporting Ukraine with Poland and Baltic, in promoting free trade with Sweden, Denmark or Spain, in defending the role of nuclear energy with France and Finland and with Germany and with the Netherlands in seeking alternative sources of gas. This is to be the European policy of a confident country that embraces the Western ideals of democracy and a liberal economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u67	Minister Kupka is now registered with priority rights and will prepare, he is already registered, Chairman of the Pirates' Club Michálek. I've said it right now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it important to correct one minor misconception as Minister of Transport at the outset. President Babiš mentioned here at the beginning of his speech: A normal person would go from Brno to Bratislava, I see Břeclav, I turn right and I am in Vienna and I have Warsaw left. Please don't take the Prime Minister's words seriously. [[Laughter, applause.]] This could cause you a very serious complication of orientation across Europe. Warsaw isn't there to the left. [[Laughter.]] And if I don't cartoon because I can't actually do it any more, then I would like to add some important information, because in critical evaluation of existing and developed projects, I asked Austrian counterparts what was the history of the entire preparation of the route. And they absolutely ruled out that they would ever allow the clutch from Břeclav to go to Vienna. That is why, in the end, years ago, the Czech Republic, in agreement with the Rakušan, took the road around Mikulov. So let's be clear what the real reasons for the trip were. When I listened in the history of the current opposition about the perfect state of delivery of the resorts and the fact that this also applies to transport, everything would seem to have been perfectly watered by the sun. České dráhy, a prosperous company without a single crown of debt. Settlement of land under tracks managed on 1st and dragged to the end. No problems with the laughing development project. No doubt about the form of contracts that were there. The perfect organisation of the lockout, secured money for discounts, as well as secured funds for all investment events, not only for this year, but also for all the next years, exactly as it should be, and at the same time secured funds for the Rocket programme, for the forgiveness of POZE, have prepared everything that relates to the POZE also on the basis of the law adopted by the House last year. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. And, unfortunately, reality is much sadder, and it is clear that it is up to the responsible government to deal with it and to deal with one problem after another. Czech Railways - debts in the order of tens of billions of crowns. Land under the tracks - unfinished. A problem which the European Union, too, is logically addressing at the moment. Problems on the Smichov development project, which unfortunately ends in filing a criminal complaint. lockouts that cause complications this year on the railroad. The money for discounts, which ultimately complicated the government's work at the beginning of this year, and the solution that we brought meant, among other things, a discount for third-degree disabled people, which the previous governments had not yet remembered. It was also possible to secure funds for the Rocket programme to forgive the amount for last year for all freight carriers using traction power. These are specific things that have already been dealt with or are being worked on intensively. Of course, the dramatic debt of the Czech Railways will undoubtedly be the work of other governments. [[2.40 hours]] But let us really go to what the eight months looked like and what was objectively managed in the area of transport. There's obvious progress in investment. And here I point out that I was never one of those guys who would be beating each other in the breast that everything that's coming up and finishing would be secured. It's not logical. It will also be true that I, too, will be handing over the work in progress, prepared projects to my followers, and it would be a fatal foul if there was nothing to pass on. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have managed to move forward in a number of key constructions, in the preparation of the construction of 511 Prague Circuit, that in addition there is 800 million crowns in the draft budget amendment, so that we can buy more land this year and prepare the construction for implementation as quickly as possible. I very much hope that this particular proposal will be able to be supported across the House. We were able to start the hard work on the construction of D3 near České Budějovice near the tunnel Pohůrka, it is finished despite all the complications of bypassing Frýdek-Místek, tomorrow among other things it should be possible to start another important part. At the same time, negotiations have taken place intensively since the first week of the negotiations on other important constructions of the Prague bypass, buildings 518, 519, i.e. between Ruzyně and Březinevsí, and also buildings 520 between Březinevsí and Satalice. It was managed to reunite at one table with the forces of representatives of the capital and individual city parts and shift in the preparation of the buildings and in the search for the most appropriate technical solutions is obvious and the work really takes on pace. What we are going to do on the railway, of course, applies similarly, negotiations with representatives of the authorities regarding drilling, finding agreement on how to prepare this key part, how to prepare this key construction in individual parts of it, so that we can implement the key project of the Czech Republic in future years. Another important area - the digitalisation of transport and the specific things that are happening in this direction. We are planning a transport portal that will enable a whole range of things to be dealt with electronically, not only by applying for a driver's licence, but also by simply ensuring in the future registration of a vehicle without complex delays and without standing queues and waiting for offices. At the same time, it will enable the transport portal to settle other cards and formalities that exist in the field of transport, such as cruises. It will be a really welcoming tool to cope with a number of those agendas that bring a large part of the public most often to the authorities. At the same time, a new law or amendment to Act 361 on Traffic on the Roads, which brings a number of things, and here I am also saying that I am following up on the form in which the law was developed in the previous period, we have completed it and now we are bringing it through the inter-ministerial procedure to the government and then to the House. In addition to simplifying the point system, there are new aspects of prevention, such as the L17 system, which will allow a model of a number of countries to guide 17-year-old trained drivers in driving school accompanied by mentor. Where it was pushed through, it had a direct positive impact on the reduction of the number of accidents of the most risky group of drivers, those who started. He is also counting on the proposal for a two-year driver's license to test while adjusting the amount of sanctions so as to show that we will be more stringent in dealing with the serious matters and will not be unnecessarily burdened with matters that are far from so important and of such importance. This is specifically a legislative work, along with other amendments, in which a number of simplifications have also been prepared, simplifying administrative ones, where for example it is not necessary to post a completely unnecessary stamp for the transport of road repair techniques. This is the change that the entire professional public has been calling for, because no one is likely to be able to transport finishers around the Czech Republic from the beach, but it usually does so with a specific aim to fix another section of the road. At the same time, the obligation has been lifted or the obligation to complete the vehicle registration check has been revoked if the new owner of the vehicle is to be registered in the register of road vehicles by its previous operator. This means that approximately 100,000 people who purchase each vehicle for leasing will be allowed to register the vehicle very quickly at the time when it is paid off, without unnecessary delays and complications. And I could list a number of other such simplifications, which mean a significant help for those who come into contact with transport and need to deal with anything in transport. And the topic of the last weeks - the turnaround in the priorities of the Railway Administration, where we are trying to ensure that finally the important criterion is the reliability and permeability of the railway network, when delays have reached the basic parameters of remuneration, namely the delays that are due to the Railway Administration, and we will take the same step in the area of České dráhy. We're interested in the fact that one of the powerful tools of the Ministry of Transport's influence in the form of tools to reward those so-called KPIs should pass this important requirement, this important criterion. Response from the professional public - clearly positive. In those previous KPIs, the reliability of the track was not defined by zero percent. The current weight of the criteria that are currently heading towards the reliability of the rail road is 35 percent. I am convinced that this will have a concrete positive impact on the service that the Czech railway will provide to passengers in the future. This does not mean criticism of the fact that the investment was invested, it means criticism of the fact that the closures were not well organized and that there were so many investments on certain routes that it was simply not possible to ensure reliable travel. In this regard, it will be necessary, and even to this point the KPI, the lockouts plan much more carefully and practically. As for another important task, even in the very difficult present time, to ensure the necessary financing of a number of prepared buildings, we are taking steps in the form of preparing the whole fan of the instruments, which will then be the most suitable one, the most advantageous one for the state, when there will certainly be a form of PPP among the instruments under consideration for the future, but there will also be possible other instruments of credit financing and an extension of the possibility of both the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. What is important, however, is that in order to be able to invest, the Ministry of Transport has been working intensively for a period of two months to enable the necessary financial instrument to be prepared for the Czech Republic and to give the government the opportunity to choose the most suitable, least expensive path. End of závěr. I have presented at least a few steps, a few concrete things that have been implemented in the field of transport or which will soon be discussed here in the House, which will undoubtedly be aimed at improving transport in the Czech Republic, conditions will be safer and more reliable. Moreover, I firmly hope that what has been prepared by previous governments can be dragged into the implementation phase, as well as preparing other key projects for governments that will come after us, because it is simply not a project in the field of transport infrastructure that, in fact, would be - almost none - possible to do with a pencil from the first line in project preparation after the opening of the motorist construction. But I hope firmly, and I have documented on specific cases that the pace of this preparation is still accelerating and that we will try to ensure all the necessary means for it to really be built at the same pace. Thank you very much for your attention. I tried to be as useful as possible and point out specific things that will affect people who use railroads that use Czech roads, even those who would like to use the water road for example, there was not so much talk about it, but also the last negotiations regarding the Děčín level mean a clear move forward. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u69	The Minister's speech raised a factual point, namely Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. I think I can fit in two minutes. Mr. Minister, about the way the resort took over, I have a feeling it was forgotten how it was taken over in 2014. In 2014, 800 metres of motorways were built over the last four years, i.e. 2021 to 2014. We handed over and built new highways 94 kilometers, half of which a new D1, half of which is outside D1, 72 kilometers of built-up motorways only in 2021 and over 100 kilometers of built-up motorways. I say again, we took over when it was 800 meters, passed it over 100 kilometers. You know I'm not laughing at you if trains are colliding, I thought it was unfair to me, and I'm not even gonna do it to you, I'm not even blaming you for building four times less this year than we did next year, because I understand that it's in the middle, the projects, and that's not gonna affect this year. I don't think it's such a bad result, what's going to happen now. What I blame you for is your main task, and that is to secure funding and secure money. You have a budget prepared for CZK 150 billion, we had it for CZK 130 billion, and you have it secured a few weeks before the budget was approved. 94 billion. You had that at the end of June, you didn't do anything with the Ministry of Finance during the holidays. Historically, we have never been in a situation where there were 56 billion missing, which means more than a third of the entire budget. And if you tell us that you're going to deal with it with a fan of financial instruments, let's translate it into Czech - you want to get a loan, the loan will be interest-bearing. I am fundamentally opposed to any subordinate institutions of the Ministry of Transport taking credit, it must be financed from the Ministry of Finance. And I don't understand what you've been doing for the past two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Your speech raised a factual remark from Minister Kupka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u72	I will not oppose statistics prepared by kilometers in the first years of the ANO movement's reign at the transport resort. But I also want to draw your attention to this, and unfortunately, you don't have the chance to lie about it, that all the preparations for medium-term outlooks have financed the outlook of the buildings that are being prepared. For 2023, according to the approved outlooks, CZK 97 billion was to be prepared. If it were to be fulfilled, if it were to be done, it would mean that much of these buildings will be preserved. I can't imagine. And the fact that we are working to further strengthen significantly at a time when Europe's resources fall due to the distribution of these projects, and I do not blame you again, the shortcut could lead to the fact that you have prepared it so, so unfortunately, at the most inappropriate time, there is a blackout of up to CZK 20 billion from European money. No, it's just folded the way the time has allowed it to be done, as it has made it possible to prepare the buildings. But please be fair in that under the circumstances come up with a proposal for a number of possibilities of using funds in the transport sector, the only reasonable tool possible, and if you really mean the promise of the opposition, which will be constructive, I would expect you to say: we welcome it and we are ready to debate which of these financial instruments is the most suitable for the Czech Republic. To turn it into being fundamentally opposed to using other options, I find it unfair and ultimately stupid. And I ask you to approach these things, if you really mean them, with at least an open economic outlook and let them assess the variants that will benefit the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Havlíček, Vice-President, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u74	Mr. Secretary, one more time. I took over the transport department and it was the budget of CZK 86 billion, we ended up at CZK 130.5 billion. Then you pulled it down to 127 billion, I don't blame it, that's the year 2022. Please make a nice argument today with some medium-term outlooks that took place at some time of covido... What matters is what we've secured in that budget. And we've secured 127 billion of the last closed budget, you'll end up plus minus the 127 billion, too. But now you're a few weeks, maybe even days before the budget finals, and you're at 96 billion, you know that very well. You lack more than 30 billion just to reach 2022, and we are not talking about the fact that Railway Administration and ŘSD require 150 billion. The budget is well prepared with respect to the structure. You know we talked about this at SFDI now, I have no objection, your people did a good job there. The problem is that the budget is open. And if it hadn't been covered up by 10 percent, I respect it, I went to the Treasury Secretary when I asked for 130 billion, and she only gave us 120, and then we worked our way up so it would end up somewhere on the 127, 128. I wouldn't say anything, but I would understand. But you're in a situation where you're short of 150 billion 56 billion. And you say a few days before the budget finals, you're gonna borrow somewhere to do it. We don't know for what interest, we don't know from whom. I know it's getting ready, and I don't mind that it's getting ready, but we can't do this irresponsiblely. The road is through the state budget and not toss it on SFDI, because it's going to be borrowed for higher interest and higher interest, at all, imagine why we would do it when the state can do it. And you know very well that it's going to go into state debt, yes, it's not going to go into deficit, so we're going to draw it nicely, the deficit is going to look nice at first sight, but it's going to get into debt anyway. And I lobby for you, Minister, in this case. Don't back down in this Treasury department, either put your budget on 150 and then secure the money, or you can't put it on 150.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u75	With a factual remark, Minister Kupka is now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u76	Well, he may be the difference between us not going down the path of squabbling over the money, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and other government members looking for a real way to secure that amount of funding, and choosing the most appropriate way to do it, including how the funds will be paid and how much the loan will cost. And this is just worth judging. And any reasonable economist would agree in this respect that if he was to be able to make a good decision, make a responsible decision, then he would listen to the proposals, get to know them, and he would proceed on the basis of such critical considerations, and he would not needlessly shoot into the air.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Havlíček, Vice-President, is reporting with the facts again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u78	It is a similar discussion, Minister, as we had here six months ago, when I - perhaps you remember - was a bit of a reproach to you for acting more like the Deputy Minister of Finance than the Minister of Transport. You told me with Mr. Stanjura at the time, you laughed and you said - don't bullshit us, we'll do it our way, we don't do it like you do when you're squabbling at what you say, maybe I'm saying it, and we're working as a team. As a team, we make decisions, we work as a team. Okay, I'll take that as a team. But what happened to this team? That team ended up giving you 30 billion less than you had last year. Is that teamwork? It was the Treasury that made fun of you! And we've known since the end of June. What's been done in those two months? I'm--why am I saying this today? Well, that's because I saw the current draft budget of the Ministry of Finance, it was published today, 1. 9. So the Ministry of Finance says it's going to be minus 270 billion, the deficit, but of course if you look at the details of the Ministry of Transport, so there, Minister, we have - and I deliberately say we have, no you have, that would be very unfair again - so we have 56 billion crowns to transport the bambouch, or there is only the basic amount, the 96 billion crowns. And now it's gonna catch on at the last minute, so they're gonna take credit for it. It doesn't make any sense! The state always borrows it cheaper than any organization. And I don't want you to transfer to the SFDI, or other organizations, future debts, because if you do that and the interest goes down in five, seven, in ten years it's gonna come back to everyone and it's not gonna be on new buildings. That's what I'm playing for today. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u79	The Minister wants to respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u80	I sure hope it's the last one. To be clear, what has also been done in relation to the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure over the past eight months. Approved 127 billion, currently adjusted budget 133 billion. Both the financing and the cost of running the runway so that the 2 billion money, which was the subject of criticism at the time the runway needed it, would return. This is the result of the joint work and clearly success. And so will the financing of the entire investment projects next year. And the fact that we're looking for the best way -- well, who would do it differently? That's right, of course. And if you look for similar funds that they have in, for example, Switzerland and other countries, they are obviously doing this in a much more creative way to ensure the cheapest and most appropriate financing of these buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I ask you to address me through the President. And now we are going back to the debate to which President Michálek is signed up, but he is absent, so I am moving him further. And Minister Baxa is another with priority rights, followed by Minister Langšádlová. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u82	Madam President, dear fellow Minister, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, great patron of fine art, great Čech and husband of the recently deceased Meda Mládková Jan Viktor Mládek once said: If culture survives, the nation will survive. At the very beginning, in the example of the Ministry of Culture, I will show how it was ruled by last Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and how seriously it was with the survival of culture, and thus with the survival of the nation, the then government, which today is the opposition, meant. And I will ask how seriously this is about culture, the Czech nation and our country, the opposition of today. So let's start by looking back. My ministry, the Ministry of Culture, along with other departments, gives clear testimony as to how Babišův's so-called European policy worked. For the home audience, he sometimes looks like a pro-European politician, sometimes as the biggest Brusselsian. But I don't really do either, because I don't do anything. And so I do not do what European legislation has already laid down for me. Thus, in many ministries, non-transmitted directives remain that threaten to grow every day into many million or even dozens of million-dollar fines by the Union due to the delay in adoption. I inherited a few of these skeletons from my predecessors at the Ministry of Culture. For example, two directives - audiovision and copyright - that date back to 2019 and should have been transposed into the Czech legal system long ago. It did not happen, in one case many tens of millions of crowns were really threatened, they were managed by recent approval to scare away, but we still have one in front of us, and the result is not quite certain there yet. Two. The current opposition, for example, the President of the Election Committee, accuses the coalition and me personally of wanting to dominate Czech television and public media at all. If he didn't mean it, it'd be kind of funny. But the opposition, after all, by the mouth of the Member present here right now, clearly means that. It was the majority in the previous Chamber of Deputies, composed of today's members of YES and SPD and then even the communists, who wanted to dominate the public media completely. Some of the Members wanted to abolish them, others just so-called submission to the will of the majority. Fortunately, none of this has been successful due to our obstructions. Still, the damage is pretty big. Three. In the Babišův government's programming statement, there were a bunch of declarations and promises that eventually remained purely on paper. I will at random recall the measures from the government's programming statement that the salaries of public cultural sector employees will be paid to the level of staff in education. Simplifying the agenda of applications for support and its digitization - I could not find that in my ministry. Promises of error and deed have escaped. But what I consider the worst, ladies and gentlemen, is that at a time of unprecedented economic growth before the covideo pandemic, when, imaginarily for several years, money flowed into the national budget of the river, culture was heard. Although the government of Andrej Babiš had increased expenditure in the field of culture in its programming declaration, this did not happen. This key opportunity has been missed. Four. Under the covid pandemic, culture was undoubtedly one of the most affected. The restrictions along with education were the broadest and the deepest. When I took over the ministry last Christmas, restrictive measures were put in place again in the cultural area, as if culture was the only area to contribute to the spread of covid-19 disease and the destruction that this disease carried out here. There was never any evidence for this, but for almost two years, culture was crushed by these restrictions. Thanks to our rapid negotiations with the new Minister of Health and his team, we managed to avert this risk, but almost at the last minute. Culture worked, only the biggest cultural events were limited, so we managed to carry out severe weeks of omicron disease culture without ever being proven again in any way that it was concerts, sitting visitors in theatres and in the Philharmonics that make a fundamental contribution to the spread of pandemics. All of this testifies to the culture that popelka was under Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Perhaps because culture is linked to values that the former Prime Minister does not know and recognize. And just to illustrate the importance of culture, the importance of culture in the government of Andrej Babiš - just zero. Bottom line, my dear colleagues, calling for the demise of the current government after what not only in the Ministry of Culture has shown past government guarantees and what the same opposition is doing here in important matters for this and other resort is actually an imaginary field in the face of all the people who work in culture. So much for the fact that we're all here today, in quotation marks, time. Which is why I'd rather look at what we've done and what we've got ahead of us. A key priority is the commitment to direct the budget of the Ministry of Culture to one percent of the expenditure of the state budget. We have not abolished this commitment, despite the huge crisis that is currently weighing on us. Despite the large savings, the support of culture and its individual areas has not ceased and has not ceased. As part of the draft amendment to the State Budget for 2002, we have now managed to obtain or propose to obtain it, because we will still approve it here in the House, several hundred million CZK for compensation for our contribution organizations and almost 600 million CZK for film incentives, which will enable the system to be stabilized, which has so far worked randomly and shockingly. [[2022]] We also see the difficult period as an opportunity to revise the existing system and to target support more effectively. We need to concentrate on supporting a smaller number of large and high-quality projects. As one of them, I will mention the key structure of the National Gallery's depositary in Jinonice or the prepared construction of the Central European Forum of the Museum of Art in Olomouc. After I joined the National Recovery Plan, I made a major commitment to the National Recovery Plan. Although it has already been accepted as my predecessor Luboš Zaorálek, none have been taken - and I am stressing now - of government action. Even, it is said - there was no written evidence from this time at the Ministry - that it was Karel Havlíček, who at the last minute lost the Ministry of Culture 2 billion crowns, and thus reduced the allocated amount from 8 billion below six, which will be directed to culture. However, it happened that not only was it stopped - sorry - limited this amount for my ministry, but actually no steps were taken to get the whole system running. Eight months later, we managed to get the frozen machine moving and moving. Hail! We have put out calls to promote creative learning, mobility of artists, digitalisation. Our goal is to run at least one cultural and creative centre in each region from the resources of the National Recovery Plan, to help create links between creatives and companies. [[23.10 hours]] We pay great attention to the law on public cultural institutions. Let me just remind you that the government of Andrej Babiš also had this law in its programming statement, I dusted it off from the last parliamentary term, and I also found that sentence there. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has been done in this matter. I decided not only to include it in the government statement of the current government of Petr Fiala, but we started working intensively on it. The foundation of the Association of Professional Theatre and Association of Symphony Orchestras and Choirs is now intensively evaluated, the first major meeting took place, and in mid-2023 next year, the law should be submitted to the government. Its aim is, among other things, to allow long-term systematic financing, at which different levels of public administration will participate in the Czech Republic, especially regions and cities. We pay great attention to memory institutions and the remembrance of our past. After years of endless discussions, we began with the realization of the Lety Memorial, which was frozen for lack of money. The Romani Holocaust thus acquires a dignified memorial site, and as you all certainly watch, or maybe you have had the opportunity to watch, such a shameful pig from where the summer concentration camp stood, disappears. In order not to be just a priori critical of previous governments, let me just remind you that it was the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, who made a major contribution to the fact that flight shame began to be removed by forcing the redemption of the pig farm in Lety into state ownership, and after a few years it allowed us to establish this and remove the Lety pig farm. We remembered the 80th anniversary of Operation Anthropoid, the key event was also recalled by a large exhibition at the National Museum. We want to very intensively prepare the project of the Memorial of the Silence of the Drum. Last year, this state contribution organization was established on a site that is one of the few authentic sites that resemble the horror of the Holocaust in our countries. The railway station in Bubny is still standing, but this organization, which was established last year, was not equipped with operational or investment resources despite great insistence. However, I consider it a key issue to repay this debt and to bring this monument to life within a few years. There is also a group working to prepare an amendment to the Audiovision Act. We want to transform the State Cinema Fund into the State Fund for Audiovision, open a space to support the so-called small screen formats and the gaming industry. It's a big investment, new jobs, a big future for the creative industry in our country. We want to prepare the amendment by the end of this year. It has to do with the fact that we managed to move on to the imaginary shallows of a ship of film incentives. We have put a ceiling on the film incentives to CZK 150 million per project, which will allow support for Czech producers to a greater extent. Large support packages for the cultural and creative sectors are also generally included in the National Recovery Plan. We also focus on intensive cooperation with the Ministry of Education. We want to promote cultural topics in the revised framework education programmes, we want to develop cooperation between libraries and other cultural and memory institutions with schools so that these areas become an integral part of education. In April of this year, guidelines were set in the framework of the revision of the RVP, we as the Ministry of Culture are intensively involved in them, and during the following year our discussion will lead to culture being included as much as possible in education. We are now in the middle of preparing a fundamental amendment to the copyright law. This is a transposition that should have already been discussed in the past period, which did not happen. We are under some pressure, but it is such a fundamental amendment that we pay great attention to it. It is intended to address the issues of so-called illegal storages that are used by consumers to share copyright works, especially in cases where the author does not want his works to be shared in this way. The repository should be obliged to obtain licenses from authors or to remove them from the author of the work based on information. A major priority for this government, our government, is also the stabilisation and sustainability of public media funding, strengthening their independence and resilience. We must not allow what happened in the last parliamentary term, when the merger of YES, SPD and KSČM wanted to dominate public media through the occupation of media councils. So that no current majority in the House can usurp power over the Czech Television or Radio, we have prepared amendments to the laws on public media that allow the Senate to be involved in the election of media councils. Part of these amendments is also a fundamental change, which is that the possibility of one House calling off Parliament's entire media council will be abolished. Last week, it decided to establish an expert group to prepare a larger amendment to media laws. These are their funding, the involvement of the Supreme Audit Office in the control of public media management. And I believe that in this case there will be a consensus perhaps after some time wider, after all, the opposition's representatives are still calling for it. There's one more thing I want to mention. We're preparing for a variant that a small wave of covid epidemics, covid pandemics, might come again in the fall. We will be intensively promoting the model that has proven itself to us at the moment when the government has not taken any measures, so culture has largely been spared. This situation is also very important for the future. Let me just remind you that, despite the fact that culture has not been closed, we have prepared compensation for culture entrepreneurs, which in the spring of this year enabled them to overcome this difficult period. I also want to be very proud to claim that the Ministry of Culture has also supported the invaded Ukraine, Ukraine, attacked by Putinův's Russia. We donated financial assistance, material aid, and several million crowns were taken to Ukraine to protect the collections there. I personally met with the Ukrainian Minister of Culture in Lviv and we will continue to be in touch. At the ICOM General Conference, President Zelenský's wife gave a great deal of appreciation for what the Czech Republic is doing to save material and cultural heritage. We also focus on the Czech Presidency, there is a plan for the approval of the so-called Work Plan for Culture for the years 2023 to 2026 and we will certainly have a discussion on the planned European Media Freedom Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue with this list. I will not do so, because, as I have already said, I consider this negotiation of government mistrust to be a matter that serves rather for a presentation that does not benefit any particular benefit. However, I firmly believe that what is going to happen here will not harm Czech culture, because I firmly believe that Czech culture is very strong, in the very spirit of the idea of Jan Viktor Mládek, I believe and actually have no doubt that culture and the Czech people will survive with it, and let us believe that the very last stage of the imaginary Babiš game with the devil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u83	Your speech raised a point of fact, so I ask the Minister to wait. Mr. Brož reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been able to respond to this because I am very interested in culture. All I'm saying is why we're here is this post. You guys can straighten it out in the government a little bit, because before that, Minister Síkela here has told us the opposition that he's still making excuses and crying over past governments, and now the minister is coming and half of his speech is crying over what the past government did, okay? And he keeps turning to it. And that doesn't concern him, but many, many others. But just to avoid being negative, I wanted to remind other ministers that they shouldn't keep making excuses for the last government. I would like to commend the Minister, because I think it is an exemplary cooperation between the opposition. And here we are, many of you remember, the last government explained that movie incentives aren't wasted money, but that it's really an investment, and even if they didn't, you probably let it go through your head, and then you added 570 million crowns to those movie incentives. So I commend you for that, and I believe that we have also contributed to this by explaining in detail and detail here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u85	She is now reporting, or she is logged in, with the priority right of Minister Langšádlová, whom she is therefore coming to, and then Minister Bartoš is signed in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words on science, research, innovation that I am in charge of at the moment. Surely science, research, innovation are an important priority for addressing the challenges facing our society. It is a fundamental condition for us to build an economy with higher added value. It is a prerequisite for us to cope with the crisis that we are going through, and it is also a question of dealing with the social crises that we are facing. There is often talk about how much we will invest in science, research, certainly it is important, I will certainly fight to make it as much as possible, but I would like to mention that this is not the only criterion, because we must also look at how these funds are spent and how they have been spent in the past. That is why our government has established cooperation with the European Commission and the OECD, and we have completed a project to evaluate the resources spent on dedicated support, because it is essential that we know what this brings us, what it actually brings us in dealing with the social challenges ahead. The next step, which we have in essence at this point in time, is a new law that will address research, development, innovation, transfer of knowledge and technology, and that there are also some areas that have not yet been addressed. I would mention one of the basic things that should be substantially more supported at the moment, and this is a transfer. At a time when we have and should have more interlinked basic and applied research, we must also strive to ensure that the maximum output of applied research is reflected in practical use, but to help solve the challenges ahead. And that's called a transfer. It is, for example, that the results of applied research will be used in companies, for example, for innovation, or this is when the unique results of applied research are linked, for example, to venture capital, and these are the amazing results that we know from some of our scientists. However, it often happens that there is no courage to set up these spinoff companies, and we need to create a legislative environment that is safe enough for individual research organisations to really join these companies, so that we do not assume that they are at risk of being accused of not being administrators, the right administrators and economic operators, but when they do not apply, when they do not use the results of applied research, it is a wasted opportunity and it is a loss. That is why we are preparing a law that will create better legislative means and will motivate this use, both in this law and in the evaluation methodology, which is then linked with institutional support. The next step we are preparing is the question of improving the conditions for human resources in the field of science and research. This area is connected with higher mobility, mobility, both international and issues such as the return, the return of women and the greater involvement of women in science and research, where we are at one of the last places. This is not about some feminist approach, but the fact that we have very few women in science and research is that we cannot exploit the potential of half of society. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we are preparing a new higher education law, where we also deal with the position of doctoral students, when we have a proposal to significantly increase conditions, to improve the financial conditions for doctoral students of 1.2 minimum wages, but it is not just about that. I think it is necessary to ensure that the period of doctoral studies is counted as a period of practice. And it is equally important that we look for a way to encourage, in particular, female doctoral students to receive maternity leave, so that they are not handicapped against others and indeed at this stage, at this stage they are supported. Similarly, at the moment the question of ethics in science and research is not addressed at all and it also shows with the advent of new technologies, artificial intelligence, that it is very important. At this point, we have no solution to the issue of the state's security interests in the field of science and research. And it is a problem because, according to a study by some non-profit organizations, about 200 scientists are paid from Chinese sources to us in sensitive technological areas, there are many risky contracts, and there are many, many work that we should do to ensure that the science and research sector is consistent with the security interests of the state. We certainly need our system in this, and in the draft law, we are preparing a greater link between basic and applied research. In the past, some joint projects between Grant and the Technological Agency have been considered, and I think it is in our company's interest that there be a greater link between basic, applied research, but also the transfer and cooperation with companies. There is also a reduction in red tape among the objectives set by the amendment of the law that I and my colleagues are preparing. We have a proposal for some concrete steps that are prepared so that we do not burden our scientists to such an extent with bureaucratic burdens, such as greater flexibility and simplification of the system of special-purpose and institutional support conditions. The field of science and research should also have a reduction in conditions and a reduction in the process of competition, as European legislation also allows it to do so. The current situation is very difficult for scientists because there is a very complicated and unnecessarily complicated system of the tender process, and the area is also proposed in the upcoming law. At the moment, we also lack the connection of systems, information systems of basic and agent registers with the system of public administration, as well as the connection of the information systems of science and research with the information system of the Ministry of Finance. When I came to the government's advice, there was no link to the information about the output of the budget drawdown, although it is one of the basic tools for us to manage the system at all. The question is also very important in the competitions, the allocation of special-purpose support, so that all the processes are transparent, whether in the selection of assessors, as well as all the processes in the provision of special-purpose support. So this is what the bill contains, I look forward to discussing the content of this law with my colleagues, but I would like to present some of the other things that we have been doing and that have already succeeded in the last few months. At the moment we have prepared a memorandum between the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because cooperation between these departments is of course necessary, coordination between, for example, the challenges being written at this time was really insufficient. We are also discussing the issue of large research infrastructures, which have been approved here in the past as in the UK, and it is a really big challenge for the future to fund all these activities. It is certainly very important for us to support excellence, and we will do so both within the framework of the module evaluation methodology one and within the framework of, for example, the ERC CZ support, which is currently under the Ministry of Education, and we have proposed their increase in the budget for 2023. But what is absolutely essential for us and in the future for this whole area is the increase in participation of Czech scientists in the Horizon programme in particular, these are so-called Community European resources, and I must say that the Czech Republic is very weak in the use of Community resources in general in other areas as well, but that is true for science and research, and that is why we are preparing tools for incentives for greater participation in these resources, because operational programmes, as we know them at this point, we know that they will not be available for the future in the long term. [[23.30 hours]] As the Czech Republic, and not only in the field of science and research, we should focus heavily on these resources, which are competing for in Europe, which are not just for the Czech Republic, as we know from operational programmes, so that we are active in this, that we can draw on them, that we are involved in the case of science and research in those consortiums, because it really is extremely important for our future. Moreover, even in the case of this evaluation, participation itself in the case of applications, successful applications, should be evaluated because it is actually proof of the quality of the applicant. At this point, it is also very important for us to focus on what science can provide for research to address the energy crisis. That is why the Government Council also did an analysis of the outputs where we invested in applied research to address the energy crisis. This concerns both the accumulation of energy, where there are several very promising projects developed at this time in the Czech Republic, renewable sources, it is a question of hydrogen, the future use of hydrogen for example, also for example through hydrolysis, accumulation of excess energy from renewable sources. There is really great potential here, it is definitely a question of how we can use the things that are already at an advanced stage of development to put them into practice and to help us solve this crisis as well. I would like to say that, within the framework of the Jan Amos Operational Programme, the Komenský Council of the Government has also responded to the existing problems that we are dealing with and has defined several areas that should be a priority at the moment. Whether it is adaptation to climate change - because we must not forget that, in addition to the energy and security crisis that we are dealing with, the climate crisis issue, climate change will be an extremely pressing problem for us for years to come and generations to come. That is why we have held a conference with the Minister on climate change, and we should also look at this issue significantly more as the Chamber of Deputies, because this phenomenon, this fact, will have a major impact on both the economy and the environment and on the quality of future generations. As well as one of the priorities, energy transformation has been established, but also preparedness for demographic change. We really need to address in science and research not only the technical problems, not only the economy and industry, but also the fact that science and research contribute to the solution of social issues - such as population ageing. We need to think more about what to do to make our society more resilient to the threats we face today. I think there's a lot of these things. At this point, I would mention some of the steps that we are preparing with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank Minister Lipavský for his cooperation, too, because we have diplomats dealing with scientific diplomacy, but these have not yet been coordinated, and we want and we are working to ensure that all diplomats leaving have the area of science and research in their agenda to be prepared for this. Not only the four scientific diplomats at the moment, but to be prepared by other diplomats, to really be such a good link between the Czech Republic and the countries in which they represent the Czech Republic, and we are preparing for them the background and information system that they will be able to use. As I said before, not only is it crucial for us to put in science, research, but how we will use these resources. That is why, even today, we sat with NERV representatives and defined two areas that are crucial at the moment. It is an area of transfer and the creation of an environment such that the results of applied research are used to the maximum extent. To really create spin-offs, to really make use of results. And the second area is actually the motivation of companies to invest more in science, research. If you look at the science budget, the research budget, it's actually 40 percent of it's public resources, but 60 percent of it's private resources. And we need to motivate companies even more to invest in science and research, and we know that we have many foreign companies here, and we as a government have set ourselves the goal of creating conditions to reinvest in this area, so that really don't make returns, especially for foreign companies, to reinvest in these areas, which will create an economy with higher added value and really make our country competitive. So very briefly from my area, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Minister Bartoš, with a factual remark, Mr Rais is registered. I wish you almost midnight, and I'm taking over the meeting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I was intrigued by the Madam Secretary's speech. I have basically three comments on this. The first is about time, because we've been here for a while, and we remember the agreement on the so-called little novel 130, or the Science and Research Act, and it was said that the officials would continue with the big novel, that's what you're talking about. It bothers me a little, the government has been here for nine months, I would quite like to see some version of this amendment coming into Parliament, which you have been talking about, because I think that the law on science and research, especially the transfer to practice, is extremely important. So that's the first point and the appeal, more of a bureaucracy than a secretary, to speed up the work here on this one. The second thing that caught my eye is what you were talking about, and that's basically reinvestment. Because if I remember, and it's also been a few years, 10, 12 years, maybe it is, 15, actually, the Operational Programme Science and Research for Innovation, or something called that, this has actually made it possible to make European funds here into truly European centres, centres of European importance such as CEITEC, type of IT4Innovations, type of laser center in Břežany and so on. But that's going to need, of course, the reinvestments you're talking about. So I think the government should be counting on the investment policy to put the investments there. The third thing is... I'm looking at the time... tax relief in terms of cooperation between practice and school. That's where Mr. Kuba started working on it. So that's already been 15, 20 years... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Maybe you should just focus on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Zlínský, then Minister Langšádlová, is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u90	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary probably noticed that I was interested in science and technology and all that. I'd like to peddle for improving doctoral conditions, because from my own experience, I can say that a lot of the greatest talents escape us because of that. So there I would really push it to do it as soon as possible, so that it doesn't get postponed as it has in the past several times. And the second thing is a specific question for the secretary, because I'm also interested, I'll talk about it again if it's my turn. So I would like to ask - what technologies are involved in our science and research just before the completion, which would somehow address the energy crisis we are currently experiencing? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Minister Langšádlová will speak. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u92	As for the amendment to the law, it was submitted in the last term of office, and you know that... I don't see Professor Rais, I'm sorry... You know, just because she hasn't been discussed, she's actually completely fallen under the table. But I can assure you that most of the incentives that have been addressed there are being incorporated into the amendment, but we all know that the big amendment to the law isn't from day to day, and we really want to discuss it very well with all those actors in the system, which really are many. So it's a working group, we have basic theories, we're already writing the law, but it's not really that it's possible to bring it in a few weeks. But I'm sure we'll also consult the committees in the Chamber of Deputies, I'm open to that, I'm sure. After what you said here - the reinvestments, they relate mainly to foreign investors, which we know since the 1990s is here a lot, and by the fact that mothers of these companies are out of the Czech Republic, they didn't have that segment of science and research. And we have to try to make sure that there isn't just production here, but to really reinvest and to make these segments here, and to create even better conditions to reinvest, not to make returns and reinvest in this area. You were talking about large research infrastructures. You must be right, it will be very difficult, because on the one hand it is actually our capital, that they have been built, but their maintenance and conquest in some cases will still be very difficult. And it is a very important subject that we are very often discussing within the Government Council. As far as PhD students are concerned, yes, with the Ministry of Education, it's before the finalization, this college law, as you said. Yes, and part of it is improving the conditions for doctoral students. But I would like us to look at this more comprehensively, because return policy is also very important. [[President: Time, Madam Secretary.]] Maybe some other time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for keeping time. And now Minister Bartoš will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-01-ps2021-036-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today - and it is still today, midnight is yet to come - because the opposition had a pressing need to call for a vote on distrust of the government. And I respect that, the opposition has every right to do so, I will always respect that. Just as the opposition is entitled to ask governments about its procedures, to submit some alternative proposals of their own, and then to oppose them so that together we can find the really best solutions for our citizens and the country. This is a legitimate part of the democratic system, and if this is actually happening the way I have described it now, I was glad and would like it to happen. So I have serious doubts that today's meeting is what's going in that direction. That these are the interests of the people we are pursuing by this course of action. I therefore assume that after more than half a year we were in this House, when we came as a government coalition with proposals that were needed at the time, whether it was the solution to the inherited covid wave or the solution to other critical situations, so we faced often obstructive, long negotiations and the opposition actually blocked the possibility of discussing proposals for improving the situation in the Czech Republic. And maybe even considering the meeting tonight was announced that the meeting would go on for a few days. When I look at the last term, in practice, when the argument was factual, when everyone who wanted to speak was given the floor, the vote on trust or distrust was always enough for the government to vote on one day at a time. So I'm more impressed by the fact that a kind of desire for media output has once again come before the real work for citizens, which even some of the opponents here often conjure up. And I wish things were different. So that when we meet in some opinional dispute, so that it is a substantive debate, it leads to a common goal and that the opposition really means the interest in working together to resolve the crisis. To make sure that people come first, which also appears somewhere on billboards, so that it's not just politics or the fact that we have a communal and senate election around the corner. So instead of those - and I will use the word charades, because even the introduction that Mr Babiš gave me, it would seem a bit - so that instead of the money that costs running the House of Taxpayers, we can do the work here and end with the decisions and with the approved legislation to help people, companies, to implement the necessary measures that will still be needed. So instead, we're probably gonna listen to the performance here tomorrow, as I mentioned, which, of course, you're entitled to, and then she'll come to the vote. He's coming up with the term of Mr. Babiš's court. Recently, his possible tax evasion, money laundering, has been investigated in France. So I understand that the more media hype there is, the better we can cover it up. So I recently reflected the report of the Supreme Audit Office, which also evaluated the fact of the last year of the ANO government, in 2021. I was quite surprised that it appeared in some headlines, that it was the same as in the previous period, in 2021, in some media, it didn't appear, so the SAO's assessment looked like it was talking about this government. I thought it was strange. I didn't get an analysis of the media covering it up. However, the SAO report described what we argued as an opposition party, what was our reservations and what was confirmed as reality. I would sum it up in three points, the SAO report and the points are as follows. In 2021, the Czech Republic was the fastest-indebted country in the EU, had one of the lowest economic growths and had a record deficit of the state budget. I saw the headline of the article that said, "Andrej Babiš sent the budget to hell." Which, then, represented the reality exactly. I mentioned the wave of covid when Petr Fiala's government took over, and now I mentioned the economic situation. So in this state, we have inherited the Czech Republic as a new government, and in these conditions we have begun to address the current crisis and the new crisis that was caused by Putinův's aggression in Ukraine. I'm not complaining about it, it's just how things come up, we can fight it. I'm just stating what the government's initial situation was. Mr. Babiš has mentioned the pirát here several times, so I'll just speak for the pirát at this moment. We were ready to participate in governance after the elections, we declared it, we declared it within the coalition, we went into that government to bear our responsibility to the voters. The fact that the situation will be difficult, which was proven by the development before the elections, and then actually by waiting as a government, before we have the opportunity to start dealing with these things from executives. We went into the coalition project, we participate with it, we manage the country in a difficult situation, and at the same time we are working on implementing a government program where the priorities of us, other coalition partners are projected. I recently had to reach out to a slightly sharper rhetoric, although it is not quite my custom when Mr. Babiš criticized something again. And I said if I were him, I'd stand in shame in the corner and keep my mouth shut. Or I'm going to make up for my mistakes with work. I guess we both have a very different approach to morality and conscience, so I don't expect him to do that. After all, he got out here today and then went somewhere. I agree with the opposition on one thing. The situation is serious now, the matter is critical, the solution will be difficult. We have an energy crisis, a security crisis, a war in Ukraine and rising inflation. But I don't think a few days' meeting is the best recipe to ease the crisis. Maybe we should meet at some work meetings. There was a committee going on today, and I think we can move a lot more. What I think is a very bad business card, but we can also deal with it, that YES promised that, with respect for the European Presidency and the historic event 13 years ago, it would not be an attempt to overthrow the government during the European Presidency. As it turns out, promises, mistakes. So it is another promise that has not been kept. I wasn't really counting on that. [[23.50 hours]] But let us rather go to what is important, what we will deal with in the context of the crisis as well as in the individual agendas that the ministers of the government, who are here as a whole, face an attempt to express distrust, have. The crisis has a potential that is not entirely positive. It has the potential to distance people, which is happily happening with the support of statements and the expansion of both sides of the opposition in relation to democracy, rather to weaken it than to strengthen it and to deflect the way of life and the world around us in a way that we never wanted to. I think this is how we have to treat it, that the risks are not only economic, but also the ones that I mentioned are big, and we have to prevent them. After all, as a government, we have already taken a number of steps to improve and stabilise the situation, not only because of the war in Ukraine, but also in actual aid to people and many other things are being prepared. Our ministers, I will now speak for pirate ministers, for government ministers, senators, experts, all contribute to the coalition government's success in this. I would call on the opposition to take a constructive approach. And my colleagues will continue to talk about this, and my colleagues have talked about it, so I, too, would now briefly address the agenda that I have been entrusted with at the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as in the area of digitalisation, which I have in mind. I'm going to fly the world, because the agenda is quite extensive, and I'm going to poke out the most important things. To digitize. I must start by saying that in the last 10, 15 years, maybe 20, the basic pillars of Czech digitalization have been built. Basic registers, data boxes, network of public administration contact points, so-called Czech POINT. That's all fine, but it's not enough. We have taken digitalisation in the Czech Republic in a form which is considerably fragmented, uncoordinated, and due to this non-anchoring, it is in a sort of unsystematic state which is very difficult to solve. Those prepared strategies - and we expressed ourselves as opposition, and not critically, to the concept of Digital Czechia, but with concern that the objectives it sets will not be implemented, because there is no apparatus for this, there is no cooperation between ministries and it is very difficult to deliver in this state, especially those things that have an overlap between the finance agenda and the MPSV. Often those strategies were seen as necessary evil and were fulfilled for the form, for reporting rather than for the real delivery of those services to citizens. What we have done: effort to quickly navigate the system, map the real state, focus on selected parts, which have a significant impact especially on citizens, which are divided into areas according to individual objectives and which can be implemented in relatively short periods of time. Most of them, however, are running on a longer track, let them be questions about pre-filled forms, data fund sharing and more. I would, therefore, now specifically, what is already happening and what is ready and concrete steps. Towards the citizens. We have prepared the concept of State as an application - for younger people who will probably still be awake, stand as an app. What's that supposed to do? Easier communication with the state. The solution is ready, we provide its financing, which should not be diminutive compared to other projects, up to a maximum of tens of millions. Date of launch of the 3rd quarter of 2023. Even at European level and at home level, eDocuments and e Wallet are being prepared, abolishing the obligation to carry documents with them. We have the options for solutions ready, for completion is European legislation, which I believe we will be able to achieve at the time of our Presidency, and the planned implementation date is the last quarter of next year. And we're working on the Service Catalogue. The completion of the implementation assumes the right of a citizen to a digital service. This is precisely because the authorities share the data they have that the citizens will provide. And that's where we predicted what happened, although the right of a citizen to digital service was approved by amazing cooperation between ministries, governments, opposition and actually all the people involved in IT, but it didn't fulfil the right, a lot of those projects and a lot of those agendas remain on the deadline, and we have to have the completion in 2025. We'd like to have that Service Catalogue completed in the first quarter of 2025, so we're going to have our forces. The relatively crucial thing, and I remember my first digitalisation performance, was the question of a transparent state, especially with regard to how much digitalization costs and what savings it brings. This means that any expenditure that goes in digitisation should be transparent, identifiable in the budget, not hidden. And most importantly, they should have their metrics. When we talk about digitization, the state has to know how much one stamp costs, one act at an office, so that if it's replaced, it can say that this is the real savings. This means that digitization is investment, takes jobs and saves money. We started the collection of metrics, we want to launch transparent funding in 2024, when it would already be publicly traceable. But what I think is absolutely essential is to unite the reporting of those costs in IT. Because I don't know what they all say, it's a black hole where you put these things, something happens, it doesn't matter how much you invest in it. However, even for questions about the cost of Czech IT, I have performed here with several numbers of Czech SAO, SAO, each reporting different numbers. If we know the total volumes, the state's investment in ICT will become more effective, and the deadline for this unification of the 1st quarter of 2023. In the field of eGovernment - uniform design and domain. There is a design prepared for state websites, some institutions implemented it. What does that mean? That there is a unified identity for the government, you can see that you are on the state website, you will find about those similar services under the same buttons, it is not every dog different village, information is available, friendly. Term of realization until the 2nd half of 2024. Quality control - an absolutely essential thing that does not happen in all areas. We have modified the competence of the main architect during the approval of projects, which will not only be at the beginning, when the project is approved to be implemented, but it is ongoing, it is at the end of the implementation, before the start of operation. A process is always approved here, or a system has historically been approved, and it has developed with more cost and a spaceship has returned. Although pretty, although expensive with a lot of additional functionality, but from the perspective of users absolutely useless or useful very hard. Horizontal cooperation between individual resorts is important, because a lot of the things that are used on those portals are the same services, the same shared but not united. We want to focus on education, because the digitalisation tools are one thing, anyway, the know-how of how to deal with it at all levels is failing. So using is the other thing. We have divided the whole concept of education into three areas where individual objectives are already set, these things happen. It is an area of education where we cooperate with the Ministry of Education, where we focus on the development of digital competences, informatical thinking. In the National Recovery Plan, there is money for the creation of thematic disciplines or entire fields in universities. I think it's absolutely essential to cover it from primary education to universities. The crucial thing we found in the case of covid - the issue of digital exclusion, when we found that 50,000 children had no access to the Internet at all or had nothing to learn at home when schools, among other things the longest in the European Union, were in lockdown. Providing internet connection for families with children, access to online teaching - again I can report in more detail. Education of civil servants - at the moment they are only part-time training. It falls into this - I have training, I have a stamp, I have an e-course. It doesn't work very well in practice. There we use the involvement of the non-state sector's foreign programs from the OECD. We are also preparing public education. Like Slovinec, I joined the discussion with the largest companies that do this for their employees, who collaborated with other countries - IBM, Google, YouTube, Microsoft and others. It will be the whole concept of long-term education, which would then be aimed at the majority population. [[0.00 hours]] What I think is important, and I am surprised that now the opposition is sounding more in that public space than here in the House, for which I am glad, criticism of the transformation of digitalization. It has been said all along that there must be coordinated management for inter-ministerial matters and central systems such as registers such as NIA, such as government systems with overlap. The transformation project, on which about 80 people worked together with the ministries of the interior, finance, MIT, the Office of the Government, MMR, NAKITu and SPSS, we have prepared a project, the government approved legislation for the creation of a digital agency, where we will actually get the technology of central registers out, where it is hidden in the Ministry of the Interior for a long time, where it has not been invested in it, the deficit is about 300 million, into the technology and that technology is ten years old. So we can dial up beautiful services here, but when people start applying to them, the system just can't handle it. These investments - we need to get this into the budget chapter transparently. This brings the digital transformation project. In the Chamber of Deputies, it will soon be discussed, the legislative package is precisely for the creation and setting up of competences of the digital agency, which is in line with the programme statement. Otherwise, to say the biggest delivery, or what the agency provides, the data management, the stability of digitization in the Czech Republic, regardless of the political cycle, like it has proven itself and it has already earned its reputation. Possibility of measurable results and especially export of this know-how to individual resorts, where at this time the digitization is often controlled, say, in the vertical correctly within the Ministry, but in contrast to the concept of overall development of digitization of the Czech Republic. Those terms are ambitious. Establishment of the Agency 1. 1. 2003, DIA activity opening 1. 4, 1. 9. the agendas are transferred, to 1. 1. 2004 then transfers of other systems - ROB, ROS, RUIAN. In my opinion, the crucial thing, and it is also now in the proposal on public procurement, is to allow for horizontal cooperation, which means the operation of individual ministries and administrations that can operate in the horizontal. It is based on international experience and horizontal cooperation in Denmark, Estonia, Austria. This means that one central solution or one solution supplied somewhere can also be used by other resorts if the functionality is handy for them. We've reconfigured the RVIS - the Council of the Government for Information Society, we've changed status, slimming. There are working groups. We asked because the capacity in the state administration has its limits, the Czech digital team, where experts are from analysts through the largest companies, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, and is a Czech digital team that validates the individual thesis. And then we are also dealing, and I think that this is important, and we have the first successes, as well as the digitalisation in the European Union field within our Presidency. The evaluation of the management of the CZ PRESS in the digital agenda by all EU partners is positive. In July, we negotiated an agreement with the European Parliament on the form of a digital EU transformation by 2030 - a digital decade programme. We are now coordinating the rules on artificial intelligence or the introduction and extension of the electronic identity between the 27 countries. I was talking about her. Each country has some identical elements, but the European Union wants to set an electronic identity standard that will be applicable in all EU countries, from booking the hotel to proving the highest education achieved, and it will contain these things so that one does not have to travel with a diploma in order not to have to prove that it is the owner of a driving licence. So if he decides to keep this data in his wallet, he'll use it. At the same time, we are working very intensively, whether in the field of the EU and NATO, but also with Israel on cyber security matters not only in connection with events in Ukraine. These are probably the biggest elements in the digitization. I'm talking about what I'm talking about, and the goals with the terms are in the document, and I haven't introduced it yet, because marketing is probably not the most important moment when we're dealing with the crisis, but I think that if someone wanted to talk about it in detail, I'd like to go through the individual terms, where it will be delivered and what we can look forward to by the end of the year, from the beginning of the year and then especially during the year 2023, because the other objectives of 2024 are too far away at the moment, and not that we wouldn't be working on them. To the Ministry of Regional Development, I'm really going to go to the most important things. The big feud here, it was in the last term, it's a construction law. Construction law now has the Government Legislative Council in several options. The criticism of the construction law we had was reflected in the proposal. We're dealing - and we've preserved what's good in it. If we look at simplifying the process, there's only one more form of the process that can't be done. It's just one driving. The authorities concerned are integrated into one process. We are talking about what steps can then also be implemented in the context of digitization. We have proposed a delay in effectiveness for a simple reason. We do not want the Supreme Building Office to be established, however, a special construction office is created. To the specified date 1. 7. 2023 will work and perform its activities. Unlike the original law, we - I understand that we are being blamed for it - probably more concerned with the preservation of public rights, environmental protection, monuments, just the relevant interests. There are areas that, on the contrary, have been a little loosened up, especially with regard to the energy crisis. It is the placement of renewable energy sources into the landscape, solar systems, but part of these proposals will probably come within the framework of the energy package in cooperation with the MIT, because it is closely related. To digitize the building process, I will stop here because Mrs Dostálová has recently intersected me to do so. The digitization of the building process with the connection to the National Recovery Plan is a crucial project, but when I came to the Ministry, and I'm not saying any news here, because I've talked about it several times, the project just wasn't properly prepared and it wasn't secure. I said it there, I was a little sorry, I'll say it again, the responsibility for the implementation was the only employee, or the employee, who then left, but luckily we've already fulfilled the department, and the work is going on. I'm surprised at the interpelation on this issue, because I think Mrs Dostálová had to know that there were some dialogues going on, but the actual preparation is one table that defines some systems, practically a picture that the project is not left behind so that we can continuously follow up and complete the selection procedures. After all, I was still doing quite a revision, because when the circumstances of the Dosimeter case appeared, the project was supposedly involved, although I don't know what he was doing there for a million crowns, Mr. Šteffel was involved in the case. He was posted there as a consultant for twice CZK 500,000. Consultant on the digitization of building management. The project was not sufficiently resolved by some rather important things, namely the connection with the file service, and especially then the separation of the file is still not resolved, that is 300 kilometers of writing when we talk about the separation of the file. So we're going to review, we're finishing a modified project that's going to be cheaper. In my opinion, they will provide significantly better services and will not put the municipalities in a problematic situation around the writings. And it's just a flight through the world. We have a European Presidency. The Czech Republic has been responsible in 18 years, and I have to say here that even under the government of YES, which had this ministry - in this area I am speaking - the Czech Republic as a whole, which is not only an MMR, has become a premiere in the use of European funds. From the 2014 to 2020 programming period, more than 540 billion have already been paid out of the EU budget, which currently ranks it as the best place ever in the EU, that is the fourth place. But since the 10th or 11th, where it took place, we've been on the fourth. In preparation we already have implementation of new programmes in the new period and this month will be approved last Operational Programme Fair Transformation, and other programmes this year have already announced or announced 200 calls, still this year for approximately 240 billion crowns, which is more than 40 percent for the entire programming period. So we're going to the new 2021 season ready. And I also had the opportunity to consult the Commission's representatives again, and today Commissioner Ferreira is here, and I have come from the European Ministers' meeting responsible for this agenda and applaud the Czech Republic in how we have now advanced in the Partnership Agreement and how we are prepared not only on cohesion policy.
