ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. With card number 26, President Pekarová Adamová will be voting today, with card number 23 I will vote personally. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Adámková Věra - health reasons, Balaš Vladimír - health reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - health reasons, Blaha Stanislav - health reasons, Brabec Richard - foreign travel, Bureš Jan - health reasons, Černý Oldřich - health reasons, Dufek Aleš within 18 hours - Richterová Wenzl, Farskýý Jan - no reason, Feranec Milan - health reasons, Vrána Petr - health vlček, Flek Josef - working reasons, Hendrych Igor - Vondrák Ivo, Hofmann Jan - working reasons, Jílková Marie between 13:00 and 17:00 - working reasons, Klíma Pavel - working reasons, Růžička Pavel - working reasons, Kohajda slavík - Jiří Lukáš - kolovratník reasons, Kolorečík Martin from 11 to 12.30 - Nováková Nina, Kovářová Věra - health reasons, Letocha Petr - health Navrátil, Mašek Jiří - health reasons, Navrážíří - health reasons, Nářská - health reasons - health reasons - Opltová from 10 hours - healthková. Bartoš Ivan apologizes from the members of the government: Bartoš Ivan until 11.30 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from 9 am to 11 a from 11.45 - working reasons, Blažek Pavel - working reasons, Gazdík Petr within 13 o'clock - working reasons, Jurečka Marian - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 9 am to 11 a from half eight - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from 16 am to 18 pm - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal - working reasons. Mrs Maříková also apologizes within 18 hours and Mr Vladimír Zlínský within 18 hours. Mr. Ambassador Strýček is canceling his apology today. Mr Smetana Karel will vote with replacement card number 35. I would remind you that today's meeting should begin by discussing points under the approved agenda, and I would remind you that at 11 o'clock we have firmly classified points, namely paragraph 81, House press 98-E, on the establishment of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, paragraph 57, House press 91 - Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the EUTELSAT European Telecommunications Satellite Organisation, and paragraph 58, House press 92 - Act of the World Postal Union, first reading, treaty. At 14.30, we should address paragraph 77, which is oral questioning. Please note that applications for oral interviews may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. I remind you, as has already been told on Tuesday on the basis of the outcome of the grémia meeting, that today the Chamber of Deputies will be at 18 o'clock, that is, after the oral questioning, continue to discuss the points according to the approved programme. Now, there is room for Members to speak for a change to the approved agenda of the 6th meeting. Mr Stržínek will vote with replacement card number 27. First of all, Mr Nacher has applied for a proposal to amend the approved programme. [[He's not interested in getting off.]] Mr Marek Výborný with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, fellow Members, I would, of course, let Nacher in front of me, but that is not important. I want to propose one single adjustment. Please support the inclusion and negotiation of the House press, which we missed yesterday, and this is the House press 56, paragraph 43 of the programme - Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the limitation of the impact of selected plastic products on the environment that we have discussed. The Minister is here, so I ask for a firm inclusion as the first point of this morning's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u3	Yes, I'm registering the motion for a firm inclusion as the first point in today's negotiations. Anyone else checking in with prior rights to the program? President Okamura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u4	I would suggest some further points for discussion at the House meeting, because I would like to take advantage of Mr Bartoš, the Minister of Regional Development, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, for being here behind me, he is leaving now. Ivan Bartoš, President of Pirates, continues to cheat the voters hard and, contrary to the Code of Pirates, even accumulates three functions at once - he is a Member, a Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister. While the pirát are clearly in their code, the pirát clearly have in their code which they have promised citizens to respect, a forbidden cumulation of office as a member of the government and a Member. And now it was good that it was by members of the government coalition that laughed. I guess it's contempt for these election vows. So, in our opinion, Ivan Bartoš should immediately appoint a Member or a Minister and Vice-President of the Government and stop cheating on people. But Ivan Bartoš doesn't want to do that in violation of his election vows because the pirát liked the functions and the warm corsets and sucked off public money full of sips. So I would like to call here - and Minister Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirates, sits behind me - to simply explain why, contrary to the Pirates code that they promised voters, it accumulates three functions. Mr. Minister..... you accumulate the position of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Member. [[Minister Bartos.]] Your Member - if you were to make excuses, and you wanted to go to the microphone, your Member Michálek approached it, confirmed the accuracy of my words and did not want to accumulate. But you accumulate. Just the more functions, the better. You broke everything you promised your constituents. [[9.10 hours]] So we as the first point would give a point called Cumulation of the function of Ivan Bartoš so he could explain it. 'Cause we've asked that a bunch of times, and you just... Explain what? You should just step down from one of those positions, either from government office and remain just a Member, or just a Member and remain in government office. The problem is, of course, because the pirát are playing the fifth wheel of the car in government and their votes are not needed for the government's majority - let me just remind you that the government has 108 MPs and the Pirates have 4 MPs, which is why your votes are not needed, so you are afraid that when the government's problems escalate - and they are gradually escalating and trusting the government, as we know, is falling. There was already the first public survey, it was on TN.cz, which is TV Nova, when the government's confidence dropped to 26 percent, the sample was 16,000 or 18,000 people, and people only answered if they believed in the government, that they believed in it, so that's a record drop. And, of course, the nervousness will rise, so Minister Bartoš knows very well why he's holding on to these few corpses as he can, because, of course, the pirát can be one of the first victims and one of the first ones to show the government that they're responsible for the problems. And then he'd be out of a job, because if he lost his position as minister, of course he wouldn't be an MP, and he'd have to go looking for a job, and that's why. That's why, unlike ordinary people who are usually used to looking for jobs and it's normal for them, the pirát, the Prime Minister and Minister Ivan Bartoš don't want it, they're afraid of it. That means I would like to discuss this matter. And even if Minister Ivan Bartoš were to quote here, as is correct, you are in conflict with your Member Michálek, who has publicly confirmed that it is not right to accumulate functions according to the pirate code and other important members of the Pirate Party. So the point is that we are here to discuss the accumulation of functions that even the President of the Pirates is doing, and there are a number of Members who are mayors who are Members and so on. But unlike you, and that is the point, you had in the electoral code that you would not accumulate the functions of members of the government and Members. That's the point. So there's no point in pointing out the others now, in case Minister Bartoš wants to make excuses here. It's about you and your particular election vows regarding your code. That's point number one. The second thing that needs to be discussed is the non-discriminatory funding of the STAN movement, and I will tell you why - because the problem is not over. Mr. Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement and the Minister of the Interior decided after the enormous media pressure created here, by the way, by calling an emergency meeting and the SPD, and by the great public pressure and media pressure, that he would return some of the money, only a part and a small part of the money, from sponsors from companies that have links to tax havens in Cyprus, but there are also companies connected to Luxembourg and so on. And he thinks that he ended the case, but the case is not over, the case continues because there are still no answers to the basic two questions, who are the end owners of the companies that sponsored the election campaign of the STAN and the Pirates - and we're back with this coalition - STAN and the Pirates - who are all the end owners, because as my performance showed 14 days ago at an extraordinary meeting, so not all the end owners, the natural persons who own those companies, the chains of those companies, and those companies that sponsored the STAN are not known. The second question is not answered, from what money, exactly what activities the money comes from, that is, who and from what money, from which activities STAN sponsored the Pirates campaign, of course, because the campaign was common. And now I'm going back to the pirát - that I'm not surprised that the corset liked it, but they should be asking their coalition partner. They asked as if formally, and now it's enough that part of the gift came back. In the media it was that companies connected to the tax haven in Cyprus, including companies around Věslav Michalik, went to Pirates and STAN over CZK 20 million. Over 20 million crowns, not 3 million crowns! That was the last case, but before that, the company around Mr. Věslav Michalik, who is deputy of the Central Bohemia Governor, also behind STAN and was your nominee for the Minister of Industry, was here in the media, and I remember that he gave STAN over 20 million crowns through various companies. Then he admitted it was from the solar business, or, among other things, that he was in the solar business. So it's really very important here to know what money they're coming from and what activities are sponsor donations for the STAN movement, even though you've just returned a small fraction, and you think it's done. Since the STAN and the Pirates, the coalitions, are in the government, it is clear that then the public would like to know who you're going to be, whose interests you're promoting, because whoever sponsors you, of course, will want some advantages. But we already know that, because when there was a vote here in June about the humiliation of payments to solar barons, there were only two parties who voted for it, they were members of YES and SPD. Our votes were voted out, and there were two other parties, two or three, which is why it went right through, but they are not the parties that are now in the House. This whole new government five-wheeler here voted against. The entire government five-calice, which is now in the government, that is, the government of Petr Fiala, voted against the humiliation of the payments to the solar barons. Of course, after the election, it became clear where the wind was blowing. Therefore, of course, the new government five-calice was against last June, when the law was here, and even thanks to the SPD's votes, more money gets into the budget, at least a little bit of payment to the solar barons. Because then it was found that, of course, the sponsor of the STAN movement is the people connected to the solar business. So it's a need to know where the money comes from, what activities specifically, and who the end owners of these companies are, a specific natural person. That is point two that I would like to propose, and I would like to give that point the name Non-transparable funding of the STAN movement or the explanation - we want to explain, so the explanation of the non-transparable funding of the STAN movement. And this is where the government coalition is going to show up, because if you want to explain these things here and you want to say how it really is, we're going to approve those points now, we're going to discuss them and we're going to make a resolution. For example, in the case of paragraph 1, where the President of Pirates Ivan Bartoš here accumulates three functions at once contrary to the Code of Pirates, we imagine a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends the President of Pirates Ivan Bartoš to resign as a Member or Minister and Vice-President of the Government and stop cheating people." Or there is also the possibility of a second resolution that "The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to propose the removal of Ivan Bartoš from his post as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister." [[9.20 hours]] That is what I think are resolutions that are adequate in relation to the Pirates Code. I don't understand why the Minister and Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš are sitting at the same time so he's not in the television camera. Yeah, well, you're going back, that's good. It's becoming a bit of a habit here, isn't it? Anyway, he's the one here, you know? [[He's turning around. This is the Prime Minister's seat.]] So it's good to see those reactions too, yeah, because, Minister, I can address you directly, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not... I wouldn't want to talk about it here, but we've asked you that question several times. And I remember the pirát in the last term, how you guys used to come here all the time pouting other people, not us, because... or us, too, but it didn't work that way. This is what we see in the election result that we have five times as many Members as you do, but yet you still have Vice-President of the House with four Members, for example, but I wanted to say that you have constantly whispered to others here, how they should be transparent, how they should respect everything and how they should do everything and so on. And now you're in the government, and I can't get away from you... just like you guys have been intersecting someone all the time, and you've been saying how they're not answering you, so I've already asked you a couple of times, and you don't want to answer those questions as far as you're concerned. That's why we're saying it here. So these are, of course, these two points. For my part, I must say that, in general, I am very much beginning to resent the action of this new government five-wheeler, as we are in line with democratic principles. There's just 108, you have a majority here, but it's almost four months after the election, and you haven't proposed a single, basically one law that would increase the population's lives. Well, neither. It is not enough to stare at the fact that you, who have said that you are ready for a year to rule both in personnel and programming, so there is not one law that we have discussed here, although you have a majority that would leave this Chamber of Deputies, which would bring more money, security or justice to people, these three points that the SPD promotes - for decent people more money, security, justice. It's exactly the opposite. You're basically spending tens to hundreds of hours here. I'll tell you what suggestions you've made so far. You have submitted a correspondence choice that does not concern the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic in relation to the act itself. Yes, then, of course, it concerns all citizens of the Czech Republic, because it is possible to manipulate elections, primarily presidential. After all, it's written in the law that you want it for the presidential election. That means you come up with the correspondence election, then you come up with the pandemic law. The entire government coalition, these five parties - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN - came up with the so-called pandemic law, which means restricting constitutional freedoms and citizens' rights. So there's no proposal for any, maybe something about pensions, there's no proposal from the government coalition to increase the allowance for disability care. There's no proposal to address, for example, hundreds of thousands of people who have problems with executions. There is no proposal to address, for example, the support of businessmen. There is no proposal to address the greater security of citizens. There is no proposal to support, for example, working families with children. Not a single proposal from this five-calice, which has a majority, the Fialův government, is able to present here to the House. Respectfully submit - neither here discuss and enforce. We didn't see anything here. We didn't see anything here, and now they're gonna say we're in the government for a while. Well, that's not true. If you had the laws prepared, you already had a majority in December, if they had been planted there - the SPD had already passed 21 laws - it could have been discussed here by now. So that's not true. You just don't have the laws ready, it's chaos in your government coalition. You're wasting your time, and citizens are wasting their time with you just arguing, arguing, pirát are calling on STAN - verbally only, I've already talked about it - to explain funding, yeah, now they're not calling on it, even though it's not explained, you're just arguing. Mr. Farský. Jan Farský from STAN cheated voters, the entire STAN cheated voters because everyone knew very well how Vít Rakušan, and they admitted it, even Prime Minister Petr Fiala knew it and other exponents, the STAN movement, Mr Gazdík, the Minister of Education today, knew before the election that Mr Farský was to go to the USA for eight months. Yet they did not say so, and contrary to the coalition treaty of the Pirates and STAN, which was before the elections, contrary to the coalition treaty promised by the voters, they cheated the voters, and Mr Farský is still a Member. And yesterday we read - he should have resigned a long time ago, he should have resigned weeks ago, then we talked about it two weeks ago, then a week ago - and now we know he's due to arrive in mid-February. He doesn't have a ticket to fly to this meeting? And either he's supposed to be at work, because he's Mr. Jan Farský for STAN, so why isn't he here this week? Why isn't he doing his deputies here this week? There is one less member of the government coalition here because he has cheated the voters and has not yet resigned as a Member. I'm saying again, he can't buy a ticket to be here for this meeting? Or why won't Stan pay him back? That means, here, even at this meeting, now, at this point, there's a government MP, or he's not here, who's supposed to be here, and he's taking advantage of a position contrary to election promises. So we're supposed to wait, he says we're supposed to wait. He says we have to wait until mid-February. The MP here was shouting at me from the government coalition where Andrej Babiš is - but you mistook it, we are the SPD, we have absolutely nothing to do with Andrej Babiš. I know you're new, but it would be good to distinguish that I'm the chairman of the SPD. But then maybe the orientation will happen later. So these are questions that need to be directed at someone completely different and completely different. And let's not distract. Now, I'm talking about Jan Farský, so if you want to point out, honourable Member, to someone else, according to the Rules of Procedure, you're talking about a microphone, you've got room. I don't want to report you to the President here, but you can say that at any time here, can't you? But I'm talking about a different subject. I don't know if anyone's here or not, but now I'm talking about Mr Farský, who is not a mandate here, or a mandate here, but he should have passed it by by now. That means, that's different. So this is also a matter that seems completely scandalous to me, and it's going on again. And most importantly, it surprises me with the Pirát, because the pirát who played the transparent ones - but we know they've already played them, I've already talked about it, that's long gone, that's what the public already sees, yeah, that's a blunder - but again, they should call on their own coalition partner, who is the STAN movement to stop it, or the pirát in that coalition should in that case withdraw and show that they're not dealing with the corset, show that they're not interested in some kind of hot tobacco, but that they really wanted to be some sort of change - which they are not, we know - but they should withdraw from that government, that would be a fair solution, or call for their coalition partner to resign, which is STAN. On another subject that I wanted to mention, it is undoubtedly the topic of Ukraine, and I think it would be appropriate for us to discuss this as a third point. I'm sorry, 'cause I have a lot of notes here, so I'm just gonna take a little drive around here... I've got it. [[9.30 hours]] And the thing is, the government decided to send out yesterday... about the donation of ammunition to Ukraine, and at the same time - which, of course, from our point of view, the government of Petr Fiala is trying to bring the Czech Republic into the war between Ukraine and NATO against Russia. The SPD is refusing to escalate the tension and participation of the Czech Republic in this conflict. The SPD movement isn't even pro-Russian, we're not pro-Kremmel, we're not pro-Washington, we're not pro-brussels, it's all that kind of talk, it's kind of a substitute argument that we're here defending the interests of someone from the east. But the SPD movement didn't have a penny, it's not even funded from Russia. These are the lies and nonsense of political impostors who have no arguments trying to divert attention from funding STAN and other political parties. But we just don't want the Czech Republic to be at war, that's easy. We do not want war, we do not want the Czech Republic to be dragged into a war involving foreign minister Jan Lipavskýý and the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová. And now her statement escalated in another way, when Secretary of Defense Černochová, and that is really completely scandalous, did not rule out the government sending Czech soldiers to Ukraine. You've got to be kidding me! You've got to be kidding me, Petr Fiala's government! Normally, they will openly drag us into conflict, into the war in Ukraine? The SPD is refusing the Czech Republic to find itself in the war against Russia because of the government of the five-calice, because of the government of Petr Fiala, and that is not - I hope everyone is clear - that there is no reason whether anyone likes Russia or does not. After all, it can only be crazy to drag us into war. And I will specify what Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová said. She said that if there were a request from Ukraine to send Czech soldiers, the government would consider it and take it very seriously. I can't believe this! I would like to point out that Ukraine is not even a member of NATO, so we do not have any commitments to it, and the SPD is refusing the Czech Republic to go to war against Russia because of some collaborating - and I have to say this already - government officials. And it doesn't matter, to war against whom, but mostly to war. We refuse to take the cost of imperial politics by the powers and for the inability of the Ukrainian government, and we refuse to supply Czech ammunition to the Ukrainian army. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] It is another thing that I wanted to say here, and it is further proof that you have no law at all that would improve lives across the board or at least larger groups of people, and instead you propose a pandemic law, to which I will get, correspondence elections, to drag the Czech Republic into war. Well, you guys are crazy! I can't believe this is Petr Fiala's government. This is an incredible situation that's going on here. And I'd really like no one here to blame us for some pro-Cremel politics. Yesterday we made a very nice video with our Member Jaroslav Bašta, who is here the greatest expert on this issue, and Mrs Jana Černochová could learn a little bit, Minister of Defence, because our Member Jaroslav Bašta, Member of the SPD, is not only a signatory of Charter 77 and is the only political prisoner in this House who was in prison during the previous regime, but is also a former Czech ambassador to Ukraine and also a former Czech ambassador to Russia. That means, of course, any accusation of some nonsense is completely out of order. Only one who doesn't know how to do that can say that, which is why he's just trying to blame us here. We made a very nice video yesterday - such a really complete analysis of why it happened in Ukraine, what the reasons are, how it really is there, what the new information is. It is neither pro-Russian nor pro-American, it is a very balanced analysis for citizens, what is actually going on there, and it is clear from this that we should not be drawn militarily into this conflict. That's what's important to say. So we have the perfect information in the SPD, and of course, we've been analyzing it for a long time, because we have real experts in our ranks, not political fighters like the government's five-calice. And here I would also like to point out that what Defense Minister Jana Černochová is doing, unlike Germany, unlike France, from other democratic countries that do not want to export weapons to Ukraine at this time, wants to maintain a neutral position between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and not to harm each other's good relations, the Czech Republic is escalating at all costs. Czech Republic... this government, not the Czech Republic. So here, typically folks still refer to Germany - KDU-ČSL, yes, you go there to the meetings of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. [[Unadvised pounding into the benches in the right side of the meeting hall.]] After all, yes, it's true. Look again, they're photographs. You here, Mr, whose name I don't know, I apologize, because you're new here - it's not something that I mean wrong, of course we'll get to know each other by name - but they admitted it, and it's public photography. You guys aren't orienting at all. I know you're new here, so you're not getting your bearings yet, but that's a bit of a mistake when you're an MP. Just enter the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft in Google - I'll advise you, enter Bělobrádek and Herman there and you'll get lots of photos with Bernd Posselt taking part in the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft meeting. Well, you're already nodding, so I'm glad we cleared it up. But I don't understand why you were banging on the table before, apparently, that you agreed? Yeah, like. Now it would be good to say that he and Bernd Posselt were taking pictures, working with him, and perhaps Prime Minister Petr Fiala is still working together. But Bernd Posselt is directly a person who is against Czech interests, we know that he is hostile to the Czech Republic. And as we know, the people of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft are questioning the postwar arrangement of the Czech Republic and the Benešův Decrees. But let's get back to the subject. I was talking about Ukraine and that I want to propose a point, a third point in order, and that's the point to be here... Discussion of government positions on the situation in Ukraine. So that's the third point I'd like to propose for today. And here I would like to say that the fact that Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS and Secretary of State Jan Lipavský of the Pirates are here to enforce - and the government decides to send military assistance. This is simply clear support and escalation of the threat of the war conflict in Europe, to which the Czech Republic is going to involve this government of Petr Fiala. And I have to say, a number of voters are texting me about it. Interestingly, they are often former or at least disgruntled voters of the ODS, because they expected from the ODS - of course they waited in vain, so they write to me, so they write to us - they expect a different attitude, they expect a more restraining attitude on this matter. But it is visible and it is confirmed once again that the ODS is simply a hard Brussels globalist party, and this is why it is also progressing. In fact, the ODS and the government of Petr Fiala are defending the position that Britain and the United States are currently asserting with regard to Ukraine, but it is a different position than France and Germany, among other things. But it's also interesting to see who's leaning on this situation in Ukraine, because of course it's clear to Central European Germany that he doesn't want to be involved in a war conflict, France is clear as well, but it's just plain stupidly and naively and truly activistly Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová and Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský of Pirates takes sides with states in this conflict of views, which, in essence, on our European mainland, when I say this in Britain, they don't live with us because they have some distance. And, of course, I like Britain differently. As far as this approach is concerned, simply the war hunters Černochová, Lipavský, in their ideological bias, are dragging us really into the threat of war, war conflict, bringing the Czech Republic into this. [[9.40 hours]] And here I would mention one more problem in relation to Ukraine. I don't know which one of you was in Ukraine, many of you might. I was there, too. Of course, the country at first sight, who is going around the Ukrainian countryside - I was in Zakarpathian Ukraine at the invitation of the Rusín, which is also a minority who cannot have schools there, cannot use officially the language, just this is Ukraine today, this is the Ukrainian government that supports the European Union, which is bullying national minorities, but that seems to suit the democrats here in quotation marks - you can see at first sight how the country is in a desolating state. It's a corrupt country, it's a country that has an untrustworthy, untrustworthy system in terms of corruption and instability. That means exporting military material to such a country and participating in war, I consider that absolute insanity. And, as I was saying, countries like France and Germany are restrained and they're watching the situation. But, of course, the situation changes and shifts every day, but not from this point of view. Of course, what we would like and citizens expect Defence Minister Černochová and Foreign Minister Lipavský to report to citizens what diplomatic and economic consequences will follow for the Czech Republic, because economists, as well as renowned economists, Czech economists, speak of the fact that if a war was really created in Ukraine, the price of petrol would immediately rise to CZK 45 per litre and in the near stage to CZK 50 per litre. So I'm setting an example of what we'd like to hear here from Mrs. Černochová, Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State of Lipavský, Prime Minister Petr Fiala. They are actively trying to bring the Czech Republic to war in Ukraine, to war against Russia, and again I say: I am no defender of Russia. The last time I was in Russia in 1992 was one night in transit to Šeremetěv on my way to see my Japanese grandmother. I had nothing to do with this, okay? Someone's always trying to lie about how they don't have arguments, the five-wheelers, the Kreml, the Kreml, they have no argument. The SPD has nothing to do with this. They must have thought east as in Japan. Well, that's the country we should be working with. The standard of living in Japan is proven to be one of the highest in the world. On the contrary, this is a good example of where we should go both from a democracy point of view and from an economic maturity point of view. So to the east, yes, but we certainly don't want to be here under Russia, Washington, or Brussels, or be part of some Eastern Kremlin block or anything like that. We want to be the Czech Republic, we want a sovereign independent Czech Republic, we want our citizens to live happily and have more security, money and justice. So these arguments, these lies that some people always say, some politicians from other parties... You see, this is a good opportunity to start the term of office to call on you to drop the lies, because it's just a reason you don't have any arguments. In this context, I would like to emphasise that we in the SPD in foreign policy, but also in the House hold the position of mutual dialogue and reject this way of escalating tensions in this area and bringing the Czech Republic into a possible foreign conflict. I will come back to the fact that the government has not actually proposed in all the time it is here - I would like to point out that we are still in the budget make-up. I would like to stress that we are still in the budget provisional! It's great that the media is still saving you, but this is going to happen to anyone else, so people are going to ask here, both the media and many commentators, the demise of the entire government, and you've been there for a few days or a few weeks, or, in fact, almost four months, you've had most of it. You're here all year before - I remember, I was here, and as you know, I have one of the highest attendances in the House, so I'm very carefully listening to what's going on here and what's going on - you said you were programmed and staffed, I already said it in my performance today. So when will the state budget be submitted? When? It's the end of January. You were supposed to bring him in, the state budget. You should have submitted the state budget by December, and it should have passed by now. Every standard government that has been here so far, I remember, so maybe we voted on the state budget between Christmas and New Year's Silvestr. But you don't even... Now it's the end of January, and you haven't even been able to present the state budget until now. It's such a fiasco that it's impossible. This means that we are in the budgetary commission, you have delayed the financial operation of the Czech Republic now that there is a crisis, and you are not able to normally present the state budget for this year either. So you tricked the voters. You guys weren't ready for anything. There's no state budget. He's not here in the House, he's nowhere. Maybe somewhere in the papers, somewhere in some ministry, it's not available here. But the truth, what you've already done - you don't have time for a budget, to prepare laws for decent people, you don't have time, either, but what you had time for is that you created three extra ministers, from fifteen to eighteen. Even the historical benches that are here have not even historically counted on it, what this government will do to Petr Fiala, and even ministers must sit in two rows. Even our ancestors didn't count on it any more, here that sometimes comes such a stretchy government, literally stretchy, which can't even spread into those benches for the government, so here, for example, Minister for Legislation Šalomoun - I remember that name, so Minister Šalomoun, because we talked to each other here at some of the previous meetings - so he's already sitting in the second row, because it doesn't fit that there's so much that even the House isn't adapted to it. This is an incredible situation. So you've added three ministers to yourself, and now why I'm talking about it: 'Cause we all know that already. But let me remind you of the promise - I'll remind you what you said right after the election, when the media asked you if those three ministers were going to have any extra administrative costs. And I remember very well how the media went: No, that won't be any extra money. We remember that, that's what you said, that's what the top representatives of your five-caliber government said. Well, what's the reality, which has already been done by all the media? You create for these three newly established functions of ministers without portfolio - because it is a five-calice, so that all have ministers who are in each side that they had to stab them - so 70 extra seats were created, even over 70, 74 additional jobs for the secretariats of those ministers for more than 40 million crowns a year. And I'm not counting the costs of the three new ministers, of course. So it's just incredible how your government is progressing. And once again, I stress: nothing for people. But back to the budget. I think it would be good - I would like to propose another point, item 4, point Government Information on the State Budget for 2022, because when will you present it? This is an absolutely incredible situation. I've never seen this place before, so I've never seen it before, I've never seen it here, that some government, some five-calice said that they're ready to rule for a year, and now that they're with the government and they've had a majority in the House for almost four months, they're not going to give a government budget. That's crazy, that's crazy, really! [[9.50 hours]] But why am I talking about it, the combination, just to put it in context? So you don't have the budget prepared, you bailed on it, you tricked people, you lied to them completely in the election campaign - I was in the polls with Petr Fiala, Andrej Babiš, Ivan Bartoš, we party chairmen - so I've been through a lot of these debates in the direct broadcasts of the main media, so I remember exactly what was said there, and I remember those promises, too. So, on the one hand, from 1 January, you have stolen the promised money from firefighters, policemen, soldiers, social services workers you have stolen from the already promised money, workers from the employment offices, employees of the financial authorities and so on and so on and other necessary professions, which still, these two working groups, workers of the labour offices and financial offices, you have, on the other hand, put further work on, as we know. But at the same time, you didn't provide any savings on the expenses that were necessary. And here's the problem. On the contrary, the SPD movement is on the side of the firefighters, we support the firefighters, we support the soldiers, the SPD movement is worth the police, because, as we know, the police can't earn any other way to their salary - yes, some lecture on the subject of expertise, but this concerns a really fraction of them, there are 40,000 of them, the soldiers are a circus of 21,000. And I'm going back to the opening line of what I said. On the one hand, you refuse to cut the money to the solar barons, yes, because it is an EU project and you are servile to the EU at the expense of Czech citizens. Yes, it is! So you chose the EU and solar barons at the expense of police, firefighters and others. Yes, it is! You robbed already promised money from 1. 1. It doesn't matter that they were promised by the previous government, but you could have kept it, or you could have submitted a state budget where, for example, the humiliated money would have been to the solar barons. There is also a draft SPD law - Lucie Šafránková here has processed it - to end the abuse of doses inadaptable, well-saving half a billion. It was you, the parties of your government coalition, namely the Pirates, the ČSSD it was to them and the MP Čižinský of KDU-ČSL, who is no longer here, blocked in the last parliamentary term. But it was mostly the pirát, they blocked the SPD bill of termination of abuse by inadaptables. So inadaptable, yes, solar barons do, but you took money from police officers, soldiers, firemen and others. I am not surprised, for example, by the ODS Members, because their antisocial behavior is of course known for a long time, we all remember that, and we remember the ODS Government and the TOP 09, which was here eight to twelve years ago. After all, we remember Kalouskův's second pension pillar, when he tried to extricate - compulsory, legally - the money from citizens' pockets into private funds. It's a good thing we canceled here, because Mr Kalousek, when I asked here personally if he would say if there was any guarantee of a state, what would happen when the pension funds went bankrupt, those private funds, with the money of our citizens that they would have to pay there - he couldn't answer it and couldn't tell what the guarantee of the state was. And we've learned that none! It's just a public-money tunnel, totally unreal, that the ODS government and the TOP 09 - no scary! We really don't want that here anymore, it's been completely damaged -- a mega project like this, making money out of citizens' pockets legally, and it's gonna sanctify them. [[unintelligible]] Well, on the one hand, it's genius in quotation marks, it's exactly gullible, but on the other hand, it's a complete disaster for citizens. By the way - I have heard, and you have already confirmed that Mr Miroslav Kalousek will represent the government's five-coals on the Board of Directors of the VZP. Well, that sounds to me like you're a gardener for a goat. And really, that's where you really let the kuna into the henhouse. [[Come in from the left side of the hall.]] I have to say, it's kind of significant, too. That Miroslav Kalousek, who said he was leaving, I thought to myself, "What's the government coalition going to keep him for?" Definitely for some activity where the budget is in billions of crowns a year! [[Laughter and applause from the left side of the hall.]] Well, here we go! [[Laughter on the left.]] So Mr Kalousek will now represent the government on the General Health Insurance Board. Well, that's just completely awful. And he's doing it so fancyly, he's like a government nominee, he's not a House nominee, so it goes smoothly through your government five-calice, so it doesn't, as far as possible, discuss it here in the House. So it's not the nomination for the House, but it's the nomination for the government, so you guys better make it smooth. But I'm talking about it here, you don't fool me, I know how it works, why you do it. You've got it all figured out to hide from the public, but we're watching it, and we're watching it. So Mr. Kalousek, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, will be the representative of the government's five-wheeler on the General Health Insurance Board! This needs to be repeated and we will repeat this throughout the term of office. The entire term! And it's pretty simple here, because we don't have to comment anymore. The public will take a picture of Petr Fiala's government and your five-calice itself, so, of course, you've made this thing easier for us. But back to the budget, the point I'm suggesting here. Of course, you didn't submit the state budget for 2022, because you just don't have it ready. You tricked voters, the media, the public. You lied to the whole republic and humiliated the money you needed for the professions. What I wanted to say is that I am particularly surprised by the Members of the STAN movement because I have done my job and I have prepared what communities you are from, which cities you are from, because I am struck by this policy. Indeed, there are many Members of the STAN movement who are behind very small communities. It's a community of 800 people, 600 people, 900 people, or when you walk down the street in that small village, in that village, these people really recognize you. And I want to ask, how can you go against firefighters? And we're gonna repeat this all the time, all the way to the municipal elections. How can current mayor MPs go to STAN against firefighters? I think it's a terrible setup, because I like firemen and I've always supported them. When I joined politics, it was a small, basically rural district - or small, he each has the same population - but I had 84 cities and villages there and I won the Senate election in Zlinsko. It was really a lot of small villages, it was Otrokovice, Boykovice, Uherský Brod, Brumov-Bylnice, it was a lot of small, beautiful, picturesque villages in the Zlín Region, where my family came from my mother's side. And over and over again, I realized how important firefighters are, how important this is, how important firefighters are, how important social activity is. And I don't understand how the mayors of STAN, especially those of small towns where it's not anonymous, could have agreed that your government five-calice stole from a firefighter's already promised money. This is really unbelievable! Also, the second thing that you didn't oppose at all is how your government advocated a mandatory covid vaccination decree, which also concerned voluntary firefighters, in that decree. I do not understand how Members of the STAN, those who are mayors of small villages, have completely forgotten the citizens here in the House, how they completely got into the Chamber of Deputies aquarium, which some of them are getting into here from other parties, and they are going against the firefighters. Yes, you're going against the firefighters because you agreed the government robbed them of their already promised money. None of the members of the STAN, who are the mayor, got on the microphone here to turn against it. No one, not one, not one! I remember it very well. Not one! You just in the name of being at the government corset, so - yes, when you have most of it, it's legitimate, this is legitimate right now. That's not what I'm saying, that's exactly what I said, so I'm not saying it pejoratively, that's a legitimate fact based on the election. But in exchange for holding the government of this five-wheeler, you threw overboard the firefighters you have in your village. You have voluntary in these small villages, but of course you also need the help of professionals - so if anyone wants to go on a microphone, that voluntary - professional, I know that, of course, nobody has to instruct me - but you need professional in more complex matters as well. So if you're against firefighters and to cut the salaries of professional firefighters, then of course you're against firefighters as such, and I don't think that's the interest of the municipalities. It is necessary for citizens to ask you why you are doing this in your communities. [[10.00 hours]] Well, back to the budget. On the one hand, you took the necessary professions, you didn't design any law here in four months that would help people more across the board, and you're proposing only laws like the pandemic law, correspondence vote, yes, you lost the firefighter's money, which wasn't the law, which you decided on your own, it concerns the government, and the like, so it's not really the way we like it in the SPD. And it's even worse on your part, because we've proposed 21 laws here, and you're not just designing laws for people, you're also blocking SPD laws that people and citizens want to help. You don't have a proposal yourself, but you're blocking other people's designs, so it's even worse what your new government five-caliber is doing. Prime Minister Petr Fiala reminds me of an ostrich who thinks - the ostrich - that when he puts his head in the sand, that no one sees him. But that's completely unbelievable. Prime Minister Petr Fiala should call on Vít Rakušan to explain who is the owner of the companies that sponsor STAN and also sponsored the campaign of who the end owners are. He should call on Vít Rakušan to say what kind of money it comes from. I mean, he was playing Mr. čistý in quotes, and he ran away again. Just to be Prime Minister, he's no longer talking about these non-discriminatory matters. As far as the SPD is concerned, we've passed the laws here, and I'll get back to it. I'll explain what we've presented to those laws, and that's the only reason. I don't want to drag this out, but you don't want us to discuss this here at the meeting. It could have been here by December. And now you're gonna give us the opposition window for three laws today from 6:00 to 9:00 p.m. Three laws for us, three laws for YES, six, not even the six will come together, and then you will say somewhere: We gave them the opposition window. At 6:00 p.m., when the media is no longer watching it properly, because, of course, most journalists go home. You guys have it all figured out again, and it's tricky thinking again, so that our bills, the laws of the opposition, aren't mentioned here, as far as possible, during the day when it gets more ratings, and to talk about it when the citizens come home from work, they have dinner, they're home, and then they go to sleep. Like, let go of these double-crosses, undemocratic, totalitarian. Stop it, it'll come back to you too. It'll come back to you. And now we see, because you have these manners, so does your government's trust. For example, we here have proposed - and I think that there are good laws - a referendum law, so I hope that it will come to that today, because our chairman of Radim Fiala's parliamentary club is going to propose that it be on the agenda for the SPD today. The referendum law is a law for which members of the government's five-wheelers and associated journalists call the SPD an undemocratic SPD. So whoever wants a referendum, which is the pinnacle of democracy - as they no longer have arguments against the SPD, they just talk some nonsense, like Mr Balda, they always say, while I don't even know Mr Balda, he wasn't a member of the SPD, nothing. They have no more argument against the SPD. We have over half a million voters. I could list here x exponents of the ODS, such as the ROP Northwest, now there is a court in the Ústí Region, where politicians of the ODS face up to 16 years in prison for robbing billions of subsidies in the ROP Northwest, EU subsidies. Yeah, we could name this place by name, other people and so on. But in any case, they're directly members of the ODS, they're people who are directly sucked up to the ODS, and these other godfathers and the like. So these proxy arguments, they're always screaming at the SPD, and it's completely out of control. So it's the referendum bill. The referendum law, we have already passed it in this parliamentary term, and it is the third time we have submitted it to the House. It is significant for this government, which is against democracy - your government is against democracy - that there is no referendum law in your government declaration. He fell out. He fell out of the government statement of the last government. Well, she didn't make it, she bailed on it in the finals, it turns out they're against the referendum, they just put it there, and then, of course, the deed got away, that was Andrej Babiš's government. But you didn't put the referendum bill in a government statement at all just in case. And here I would like to point out that we are only one of the two countries of the European Union that does not have a referendum law. It is the Czech Republic and Cyprus. Well, the Cyprus one, by the way. So those who are against the referendum law, you are the non-democrats in such a case, you are the non-standards, because the standard is to have a referendum law. Yes, the next step is the parameters, of course, because in many countries the parameters are adjusted so that virtually almost no referendum can take place or almost no referendum is valid, see Slovakia for example. But they have him there, the referendum law, they have him there, and we can already discuss the parameters. So you, in order to prevent democracy, so that you can rule, so that you have an elite government, those elites that despise the votes of citizens and suit you citizens, only that once every four years you will be elected to the Chamber of Deputies or elsewhere, but then, in your opinion, citizens have no voice - that is exactly the bill of referendum we have here, and I am curious how you stand up to it. We'll hopefully know in a short time, but we'll know in a short time, because if you refuse to include it and so on - and that's also a political attitude, that is, it's a "no" on your part. So it's the referendum bill. We also proposed a law on the direct election and recallability of politicians, at the start of mayors and captains. Again, the mechanism - in Slovakia, Poland, Japan, the United States elects governors directly. After all, the most famous case is when, based on the appeal of the previous governor, Schwarzenegger Arnold became governor of California, it is probably one of the most famous cases of a political appeal, and it is most famous because the successor was the world-renowned actor Schwarzenegger Arnold. This is how it works in democratic countries. You don't want democracy, you're afraid. The way politicians should appeal, I've explained that in the media x-times, and I'd be happy to explain it here, in case someone said it couldn't be done. Of course, it takes a direct choice for a politician to be rescindable. In the Senate it would be possible, with the President, which we also advocate, because no matter who the president is, the institution of appeal should, of course, be there for it to be a direct democracy, not by the form I would say to a constitutional coup, it seemed to me what the President of the Senate has done, which really blew up the preparation of a constitutional coup. It was incredible when they had seen the president on his deathbed, and it turned out to be completely different. That was completely incredible behavior. Normally, the human hyenas that the Senate president here showed up for the ODS. And now he's still trying to get out of it and apologize somewhere on TV for saying he didn't mean it. Well, I did, and the whole Czech Republic saw it. Well, horrible, horrible, completely horrible behavior. From a human point of view, terrible behavior, I'm talking about the human dimension. Everyone has a right when he's seventy, seventy-eight - we had grandmothers, grandfathers, old parents - that he's sick, that he's indisposed for a while. But right away, saying he was almost dead, that was a really ugly attitude, I'm talking from a human point of view, we don't have to talk about the specific fact that the president is one or the other. That's not the topic I'm talking about right now. Another law, so the direct choice, the appeal of the mayors, the captains and, of course, the politicians, I think would be ideal. Of course, the condition for appeal is a direct choice, because then the appeal is essentially based on a local referendum. [[10.10 hours]] The next suggestion we have here is the nationalisation of executors. This is in charge of Mr Hrnčíř, Jan Hrnčíř, and I think this is a really important topic. In Germany, too, the executors are state, it's not Okamura's invention again. On the contrary, we are looking at the developed West, not Russia, where we are not looking, we are looking at the West in the developed countries, and we are trying to pick out the best, most functional things that can be applied to the Czech political reality and the situation that is here. That means we've been promoting the nationalisation of executors here for a long time, but the other parties are rejecting it here, so we're gonna keep pushing it forward. Furthermore, it is a relief to tax small companies, with us also an MP Hrnčíř. Taxation of dividends. Yes, that's going to be in the opposition window today, and that's what we're going to propose as point two, to prevent, or to level out, the conditions for extortion, the taxation of profits. These profits, if they are realized in the Czech Republic, so that both Czech companies and multinational corporations have balanced conditions, because today foreign multinational corporations that operate here are favoured against Czech companies, it is based on the tax exemption agreed by the government of Vladimír Špidla - ČSSD - completely anti-nationally and against the interests of Czech companies and their employees. They went to the hand of the European Union and agreed to an exception, so there are tax-free profits coming from here, while Czech companies, Czech owners here must tax all profits. It is these companies à la Cyprus, which have mothers in more tax-efficient countries and the European Union, that use this purpose. So we are on the side of Czech companies, we want the conditions in the Czech Republic to be levelled, so that the profits that are being realised here are taxed here, so that, above all, some peeks are not favoured in quotation marks on the basis of the rules of the European Union. Of course, we have already proposed this proposal in the last parliamentary term, and Babišův's government has given us a negative opinion on this because it is said that the European Union does not allow it. But we really don't care, because the European Union's allowing multinational corporations to benefit at the expense of Czechs is completely fatal, which is a crazy thing to do. Of course, we know, but we will still suggest that we set up a mirror, how the European Union damages our businesses, our entrepreneurs, our employees in the name of multinational corporations. Another one here, for example, is the territoriality of executors. That's because we want to introduce the local jurisdiction of executors. By the way, there are, for example, Slovák in this, they've already introduced it. By the way, the territoriality of executors, local jurisdiction, is true in most countries of the European Union, so again it is not a proposal with which the SPD would come from the side. We want to prevent debt trading, with the debt packages, which, of course, makes the whole system more expensive, of course, the system pays for it and, of course, the debtor pays for it. The situation needs to be settled so that the debtor repays the debts. Debts are due, but the system cannot be set up so that families with debtors fall into social traps, and then we all pay it, the whole Czech Republic, and the basically only lawyer or executor will recover. Other proposals, if I take this at random, because I have enough here, so, of course, last but not least, it is our bill to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term. You outvoted us here recently, the government coalition, the government's five-calibers, because you're the reason the politicians' salaries have increased since 1. 1. 6 percent, because of the government's five-calice, because of the government of Petr Fiala, and because of the mayors of the STAN movement, who are from the small communities, all of you have increased the salaries of politicians. You allowed politicians' salaries to increase by 6 percent from January 1st. Sorry. [[He's blowing.]] And we simply insist, and here was our amended proposal that you rejected, the SPD amendment, so that it would apply throughout the term of office. Of course, we had it as a separate law in November last year, so you could have discussed it here, there might not have been an increase in the salaries of politicians at all if you hadn't argued in your government's five-wheel drive and if we had already met the deadlines here in December, in the second half of December, we could have discussed the SPD's proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. But you don't want that, you don't want that! The Fialův Government has not brought any proposal to address the increase in energy in the Czech Republic. Not one, all people are getting more energy... [[Reactions from the O.R.]] I'll get to your one more proposal. No one here has to worry if anyone thinks you've come up with something solid. I remember well what you guys designed here, these are housing payments, we'll get to that. It's ridiculous that this is a system solution on your part. That's another bluff. But let's get back to the suggestions. That means you haven't actually proposed anything in terms of freezing politicians' salaries for the entire term. We designed this place, you turned it down. And we want that bill, and we have it here in order for the entire term. And you, when you found out your government was under public pressure, you suddenly came up with your law late, which is why you've been on the force since 1. 1. the salaries of politicians increased, you came up with a cross after a funeral, and now you suggested freezing it for a few months, for eleven months, for ten months, well, by the end of the year. And we're gonna be here again -- because you're going to laurels, you don't want to cut those salaries, or freeze those salaries, so now you're doing the laurels -- and we want to freeze it for the entire term because politicians' salaries are above average, and I think that would be a fair gesture to the citizens. The next law we have here, for example, is my house, my castle. That's the law that's been here for the third term, and we're putting it here, and the other parties are always rejecting it. It is a law that many citizens would welcome, writes to us about the large number of citizens, because today the situation is such, see the example of the mugging at Pilsen last year that the master and his wife in the house in Pilsen just released a repeater from prison, just released a murderer. And the gentleman last night, when he was ambushed at home, they were ambushed in a family house, pulled out a legally held gun, and shot the repeater and the killer, it was at night. Of course, the master was covered and covered, whether it is necessary to defend himself, there is no need for defence and so on. And how is a citizen supposed to know at night who's being ambushed at home in an apartment or in a house? The assailant, the criminal is proven to overcome any obstacle by force, which means he breaks the lock, breaks the window, opens the lock, kicks the door, so in that case we're suggesting that an assaulted citizen, an assaulted citizen, and his family are always in the right hands. It's not like that today. In the opinion - by the way, even Babišův's government, which was also against our law - in the opinion of the ruling politicians, a sleepy citizen may still have the criminal and the perpetrator at night to ask if he has a gun or what, or if he's not a karate world champion, if the perpetrator, without a weapon, doesn't know how to strike him with one strike. That's not possible, this condition. We want the bill - we have it here, we are in charge of Mr Koten, Radek Koten - my house, my castle. That means, we want to change the criminal code so that if by force someone overcomes the obstacle, that means, as I've already given the examples here to your house, so that the victim, by extension, his family, is always in the right when he defends himself. And we designed the bill thoughtfully because we didn't go up to the American model at all, because the American model is even more on the side of the owner or the people who are in the real estate, so we just went in between to make it acceptable. To be acceptable to - I had hoped - policies such as other political parties, but clearly they are not on the side of citizens. [[10.20 hours]] And here somebody always said how safe we are. So I want to ask those who say that we are a safe country, which I certainly am not Ukraine, I acknowledge - or do not have a level of security like in some developing countries, I certainly have been in many of those countries - but I want to ask: Who would say here - and that is what Prime Minister Andrej Babiš liked here - as a safe country, so I would like to ask him if he does not have a security lock at home, if there is an alarm in his car, if there is a security lock. Then why do they have him there? Then why do you have it there, if it's so safe? Or I'd like to ask if you're not paying your insurance, like burglarizing at home, home insurance. If it's so safe, you probably don't need it! So that's not true! So it would be good to end this hypocrisy and face it for the benefit of the citizens, and our law my house, my castle should be accepted here, because it is simply necessary to stand on the side of decent people who have earned money honestly - or the disabled who live honestly, of course they can't be disabled, but they just have to worry about their safety, and the criminals need to know whose side it is right for them to think about robbing people at home and breaking in. So that's what this is about. We also have other bills, for example, we have a law to ensure that non-profit organizations, and we target those political non-profit organizations, and in the case of donations from abroad, they must have a transparent account by law. Such a small thing, and it doesn't surprisingly work like that. That means it would be... I don't know why these nonprofit organizations are ashamed to say they're funded by the Open Fund Society, that's George Soros, or George Soros. [[spoken by George Soroš]] [[Spoken by Jorž Soroš]] He's from Hungary, so now I don't know whether to read it in English or whether to read it in Hungarian. Why are they ashamed that they are funded by Norwegian funds, which, however, are no longer clear about who is funding the Norwegian funds. Nothing against Norway, Norway is a beautiful country. It's the funds. They are ashamed to be funded by various foreign and other political non-profit organizations, and these organizations are then engaged in political activities here. So we want it to be transparent. They're calling for -- that's the reconstruction of the state, for example, it's called. Also, what I have information is funded from abroad. And they want to... And it is with the reconstruction of the state that the government of Petr Fiala is creating a law on correspondence choices, as we have read. How typical, how typical! So the government itself does not create even - although we do not agree with the law, of course, but this will still be the point, that is the priority of this government - correspondence elections, not raising pensions, raising the income of families with children, disabled citizens, supporting businessmen and so on and so on and so on. No, no! The government's priorities are correspondence elections. That's absolutely incredible in the context of the expensive thing that's going on here. So, of course, even political nonprofits here create laws for this government, because it is not even capable of creating it itself. That, too, is an incredible incompetence and an incredible thing! Who actually dictates how you're dictated here? They're taking you like puppets from behind. In particular, we have read about it directly in the media, that it is created by this political non-profit organization, which is financed according to my information from abroad. So we want those who receive over 5,000 euros a year to have to set up a transparent account. Of course, we also put it there that it does not apply to membership contributions and so on so that we do not restrict any football clubs, any interest associations and so on. And we also want to help the businessmen. He's in charge here... It is the copyright law and we want to cancel the fees of the OSA and so on for business establishments for which music is not the primary earnings. That means, of course, he's got a line today... We want to support businessmen. The SPD supports businessmen, and today the situation is like this: we want to help hairdressers, shops, it's just all shops, whether they're clothes or the like, all the possible establishments that pay fees today have to pay the OSA fees, even though they only have music as a background. And we want the fees of the OSA, so that the obligation remains only for those business establishments, those establishments, or those small establishments - it's for small businesses, for those businesses - for the OSA to be true only for those establishments for which music is the primary profit, so that it stays with only those. That means, they're, like, discos, they could be music clubs and stuff. But the 99 percent of establishments for which it is not primary earnings, so that they are free of it. By the way, a lot of people are complaining about how the OSA works and stuff like that. They say they don't know at all, even artists tell me that they don't know who's got what salaries in there, how it's funded, how money goes. It's actually... At all, it would be good to look at this organization because it's actually a tax, the OSA charges are actually a tax today. It's like a licence fee for Czech Television. That's basically a tax, otherwise named. And it's really interesting when some famous artists call me - I've known them for years, of course, from when I wasn't in politics and we were performing together with many and on TV shows - so they say that they may be organizing a concert for themselves, so they and the authors or co-authors of the song are the authors of the song, and they have to pay the OSA themselves for their concert, and then they're going to cut it down for them and then some change for their own concert, even though they themselves are the authors, they're going to get it back. They're just really interesting things, including the not-so-clear funding of the financial flows in the OSA. I think it would be good to open it. I already tried to open it as a senator, but no one joined me. There's no interest in the subject here, and I think that would be a good subject. When it comes to increasing energy, to get back to it. So Petr Fiala's government has promised that by the end of last year, that means by the end of December, it will submit a proposal for a solution to the energy price increase. It has been done by all the media, we have all heard that the government of Petr Fiala will submit a proposal by the end of last year to deal with energy increases, and you have not submitted anything. Anyway. You have put forward one proposal here, where you are increasing housing payments, you have expanded the group a little bit, which certainly supports and promotes the SPD to help really needy groups of citizens, but you have, thanks to the law, because it has been pasquil because your amateurism has shown itself here - we have voted in favour because we want it to at least increase the small group, because you have rejected our proposals - so you have increased the dosage inadaptable. Even inadaptable. This is unbelievable. And above all, this is the system solution to the energy price increase you've shown? That's the promised solution? Not only did you bring it up late because you said it by the end of December, but you didn't offer any solutions, when all the citizens here are getting more energy, that makes food and other things more expensive, and you haven't helped the vast majority of the citizens with anything! Yes, you've expanded the possibility of a housing supplement a little bit, yes, for certain endangered groups, but by the way, even the inadaptables will get extra. But if you'd accepted our bill to end the abuse of the inadaptable doses that the SPD is presenting here, that would have been fine, because then it would have been a compression, and then really only those needy ones would have achieved those benefits. But you're a politician, you don't have your own proposals, which is why you're proposing these proposals here, and in the end, most people are getting nothing, no support, no energy-expensive solutions, and they're paying for their expensive bills now because of you and the inadaptable ones. I'm saying, too, because you've spread a little bit of that circle of people who can reach it, even the decent people. So that's another thing. [[10.30 hours]] Furthermore, we have draft laws to increase the tax advantage of children, of course from working families, we are talking about this, because who does not pay taxes logically cannot even have a tax advantage, right, so we are not talking about inadaptable if someone is not clear about it. We have an increase in tax reductions on the taxpayer. I think decent people and the workers deserve support. And most importantly, don't tell me in the media - you're not gonna ask me here, because I'd explain it to you right now, and I'm always hearing it in the media behind my back that they're gossiping about the SPD and saying, "Where are they gonna take it?" Well, where? I'm telling you, we don't need the money to the solar barons, the benefits to the inadaptable, political nonprofits, and so on. That's what we're saying here, so I hope no one repeats it where to take it. But you don't want to do this because you're servile to Brussels and to the European Union, where you promised mountains of mines and, of course, now you're going to a dead end with your own promises, because the budget is just one, the money is just one, and it's not inflatable. So you are exactly ahead of the choice - but you have already chosen - whether you choose decent people and work for them to have more money in security and justice, or choose European Union projects and what they dictate here from Brussels. And we in the SPD are clear. We chose the decent people. We also have an important bill - yes, this is Lucie Šafránková - to increase the contribution to the care of the disabled. And that's definitely an important thing, because the increase, if I'm not mistaken right now, but I don't think so, so I haven't increased in four years, maybe even longer, less definitely not, but longer. Now I don't know if it's been more than four years. Of course, everything is getting more expensive, and especially disabled people, they are obviously in a disadvantageous position, so we want to increase their contribution to the care of the disabled. And why am I talking about all these laws? So that citizens can hear what you're blocking, what's blocking the new government five-callices, what citizens could already have if they were here - for example, on Tuesday there's an emergency meeting called, the pandemic law, which I can still get to, instead of spending Tuesday increasing our allowance on care for the disabled, for example, okay? So is the correspondence option. You're still pushing the correspondence option, which is a threat to democracy in the Czech Republic, and it gives room for manipulation, instead of discussing, for example, the end of abuse and inadaptable. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Or instead of discussing the SPD proposal my house, my castle. Those are exactly five-calice priorities versus SPD priorities. Then there's the law to establish a minimum dignified pension. This is a law that applies in a number of developed countries, because in a number of developed countries they realized that pensions - and I am already applying it to the situation in the Czech Republic, so for pensions of ten thousand, in our case nine, ten, eleven thousand, it is simply impossible to live on. There's no living for them. That is why, in many developed countries, they have adopted a minimum of dignity, and we propose that this be at the threshold of minimum wage. It has a plus or minus copy of the so-called poverty line set by the European Statistical Office. It's a plus or a similar amount, it's a 15 grand circus. And, of course, we are suggesting that somebody not pop up here again, that we want to give inadaptable pensions -- that would, of course, be cheap -- that would merely indicate that such a Member has not read the law -- we propose that under legal conditions. That means either they're years off, or there's this disability, and from that amount of credit, so merit would remain. Because really for pensions, when someone has eight, ten thousand or eleven... well, when there are two partners, but of course there's always this sad event that one of the partners dies earlier, and then the senior, often at a very old age, finds himself alone and logically unable to finance his own housing often. So here we simply need a minimum decent pension overall and we want to support disabled and old-age pensioners, especially the lowest pensions, that's just a problem, the problem is the lowest pensions in the first place. I know we haven't been part of any government because of the governments so far, so the budget is in debt, but again. We specifically propose where to cross off and where to move this saved money. And then we have some of the laws that we've been proposing here over the long term, but I've taken it in the order of the ones that we'd like to discuss in priority. It is, for example, a ban on promoting Islamic ideology. This is already here from last term because we think we should ban the promotion of hate ideologies in the Czech Republic by law. That's where it's all about hate ideologies. Because I don't know if you know this, but today it's forbidden in the law only to promote such movements, but not such ideologies. We are coming out of the judgment of the court of the last parliamentary term, when a representative of the Muslim community in the Czech Republic was tried for publishing a book here, which, by the way, is banned in Germany, is called the Basics of Tahid. It's just a wahhabist book where it promotes extreme Islam, it's cutting off hands and I'll say the superiority of men over women and the like, which is unacceptable for the SPD, of course, so in the Czech Republic. This man spread the book and the court freed it with justification that in the Czech Republic there is a criminal promotion of such a movement, but not ideology. And since it wasn't a movement, they freed him. And that was the very reason for the verdict. So there's a gap in the law, and we'd like to put it right there - that's the amendment - just two words: and ideology. I think that these views that Islam is promoting have nothing to do with the Czech Republic, such as knocking homosexuals off the roof. That's crazy. That's crazy. The superiority of men over women and so on. Those are things I don't want here, we don't want these things here. We think that this is contrary to the Constitution, that it is contrary to democracy, and that someone thinks such things are the right to freedom of religion, well, don't be mad at me, which is why, for example, fascism is banned here. I think it's the right thing to do to be banned. We already have that here, and we would be going back to somewhere that has long been dealt with in the Czech Republic or such legislation is already here, only it is about to be specified or applied to ideologies. Then, of course, we also have a law to ban Islamic cloak in public. And again, it's no ideological invention of Okamura. This is a law that has recently started to apply in Denmark, Austria and, by the way, in various modifications, in France and so on, so on the contrary, we took an example from Austria and Denmark, these are the last examples where it started to apply. I think we can all agree that these are developed countries and they have big problems there. So again, the arguments I've always heard here: there's no migration, we don't have the problems here. So you're not gonna buy a security lock until you get robbed? You buy travel insurance when something happens to you abroad? That is the logic of some of the other parties. You gotta be kidding me. It's not only that no one would allow you to have insurance if something happened to you abroad, or when someone robs you at home, the insurance company won't let you, so pay it back, the insurance. That's bullshit. How can anyone say that? I always hear it here, especially ideologically, there are always pirát experts in this, because of course they're on the side of Islam and all that. But I say to myself, let everyone in their country do what they want. We want people to adapt here, we don't want inadaptable people. Otherwise, let everyone at home do what they want. Nobody wants to tell anyone not to do that, that's okay. Also, if someone yells under your windows all night long, you don't tell them to do what they want. That's not true. So it's like really Austria, Denmark. The senseless arguments I've heard in the last term, what it's gonna be like when someone gets cold, that their face is covered - please, it's all treated there for sports performances, for theatrical performances, for health reasons - these are all exceptions to the law. By the way, this law was also consulted by the legislative department in the House, everything was discussed in detail. So these accusations fall of course, and only a fool can say such accusations. He'd just be convicted of not even reading it. That's what I've been through here in the last term, I have to say, people here are commenting on the laws of the SPD pen, and they didn't even read them just to say something, which was absolutely incredible. [[10.40 hours]] I'm gonna go slowly to the conclusion. I have to say, I don't like the way the government breaks the election vows either. You said you wouldn't raise taxes, but the opposite is true, the opposite is true! After all, the SPD is refusing to raise taxes that the government is promoting, but the government, which is a coalition of the SPOL - that is ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN - you have published here last week that you will increase taxes. So normally you've been with the government for a few weeks and you're cheating everyone over and over again because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, has announced that he intends to increase excise duties. Well, he calls it valorizing again to trick people, but he probably wouldn't lie to a first-class student anymore, because valorizing raises them, of course, everyone understands that. So you want to raise taxes, and you said you wouldn't raise taxes. Well, that's a double-cross for a voter, totally par excellence. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] And instead of accepting solutions against inflation and rising energy prices... If I stop briefly for temporary solutions, such as Poland and Hungary - there are patriotic governments - and how they did so. For example, from 1 February to 6 months, the Polish Government plans to introduce a zero VAT tax rate for basic foods, including bread, meat, milk products or soft drinks, from the previous five percent to zero. Moreover, the zero tax rate in Poland will have an artificial fertiliser for farmers, whose price has a direct effect on food prices, from February to July. In Hungary, interest rates on mortgages were temporarily frozen and maximum fuel prices and prices for certain basic foods were set. Now, look what the Hungarian and Polish government is doing and what the government of Petr Fiala, a five-calice, is doing. Zero nothing, there's no suggestion. This is unbelievable compared to the neighbouring countries in the Central European region, which means they have similar average salaries in the V4. That is why I am talking about it, it is not worth comparing here with Germany, for example. Those citizens have similar problems - also with the increase in energy and so on, with inflation - and see what the Hungarian and Polish governments have prepared. Fialův's five-calice government, nothing, zero, no proposal for citizens. It's for immediate demise, this. After all, you are so incompetent that, compared to neighbouring governments from a similar region, you have not made a single proposal for citizens. I've read you the suggestions from the Polák and the Maďar. And notice, I'm on purpose here to be careful that none of you can say that Okamura something. I'm giving examples from abroad everywhere, comparison I'm telling you to hear it all the way it is. The SPD, of course, constantly, our experts and analysts analyze laws and situations abroad so that we still have information and can build on this in our parliamentary work. So the short-term solutions when someone asked me -- and even the government's five-calice representatives asked me round here -- and what you're suggesting right now and what you're suggesting. Well, I'm telling you! Of course, forgiveness of VAT on energy would also be ideal, but now I'm telling you, you're losing your train. But worst of all, the citizens still pay the expensive bills because of your incompetence, because of your government's inability to come up with anything. The maďarský and Polish governments, patriotic governments that are not servilious to Brussels, spew one idea at a time, and they are already going to implement it to help citizens. Let me just remind you that, even in the last parliamentary term, the Hungarian and Polish governments - the other day, I think, about three or four years ago, have been ceilinging energy prices at the prices of the previous year. And the European Union screamed, of course, screaming, but they were simply on the side of the citizens. But you can't do anything, it's unbelievable. Of course, the overall, the area or the system solution is to withdraw from the EU's Green Deal. Here I am glad that President Zeman subsequently expressed a similar view. This would, of course, also solve the situation - withdraw from the EU's Green Deal and have a purely energy policy. Here I would like to remind you that, from the point of view of the European Union, energy policy still remains in the sense of the national countries, and, of course, to withdraw from the emission allowance trading system, that is also the EU. Of course, it's making our energy very expensive. Our cheaply produced energy will cost us more and then our citizens have to buy it expensively? And the argument that we're gonna lose some - that's the argument I've heard - we're gonna lose a lot of money from the EU... Please, what good are ordinary people's EU money if they don't have enough energy and they don't have enough money for food? That's an incredible argument. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] So it's about the energy. In a nutshell, I must say that Petr Fiala's government - that is why I propose the three points in the debate that I have talked about - basically nothing for people, but raising taxes and some nonsense, they have enough time for that. Of course, last but not least, it is necessary to mention that the government has come up with another price increase, and this is an increase in licence fees for Czech Television and Czech Radio. Yes, you have time for laws, but only increase taxes, increase licence fees - you want to increase both Czech Radio and Czech Television. We disagree because, in my opinion, Czech Television is not balanced in all programmes. I'll be specific, I'll talk about one single show. What I'm going to say here is the questions of Václav Moravec, where I haven't been invited in seven years. That means, not that I was invited, and I refused. They didn't invite me, so I didn't even have anything to say no to. It means, it's censorship, it's political manipulation completely incredible. Seven years I wasn't invited to question Václav Moravec, seven years I wasn't invited. It's an incredible manipulation because we're elected, essentially in the past and the previous SPD elections, over half a million voters vote. This means that, on average, 10 percent of the people who have come to the elections are SPD voters, and they cannot see the chairman of the party they are electing for their fees, on the main discussion programme of Czech Television, and even from their licence fees they pay promotion to the Presidents of other parties. Well, that's an incredible manipulation. Specifically, I'm talking about the Václav Moravian Questions program. I have to say, it's improved in ČT 24. I think we've become adequately represented there, we've become adequately represented by our electoral result, that's okay. But this particular programme of Václav Moravec's Questions, it simply does not comply with the Czech Television Act, which preaches balance. Balance, that's the word. We don't want to have more than others, we want to have the same conditions as the law. That's what this is about, by the law. We don't want the SPD to be favored. We just want to have the same conditions in accordance with the law as the others and for seven years I have not been invited to Question Václav Moravec, seven years I have not been invited. That's normal manipulation, it's fraudulent behavior in my opinion, and that's why we're just not gonna be up for it until it's set up. And I think there's gonna be a lot of debate about that, and I'm already prior to that. It's gonna be a long debate. It's not gonna be easy for you to push through things that the SPD voter doesn't agree with. [[10.50 hours]] And it's the same on Czech Radio. Yeah, Radiožurnal just kind of stepped up after the election, sometimes they call. But the Czech Radio Plus... I mean, it's totally flagrant how they're unbalanced. Again, it's just some editor here maybe the European Union or something, or a demo block, it feels that way to me when I saw those graphs in the number of performances, in the number of SPD references and other pages. This was also discussed at the Czech Radio Council. Anyone can look at that graph. It was also on the Czech Radio Council, the enormous imbalance. This means, for these reasons, we simply disagree - not that we do not like radio and Czech TV, I perform there for twenty years, of course x-times, a hundred times, maybe more times from when I was not in politics at all, so I have a relationship with it. But some specific shows, some specific editors, who runs it there... On the contrary, it is my concern for people to have Czech TV, Czech Radio, to listen to as many people as possible to watch it, but for that is what balance is needed. And it's not today because there are various manipulations. Of course, we have already suggested in the past that the solution could be, for example, that Czech Television, Czech Radio be paid from the state budget, that is, the abolition of licence fees, and that it be managed under the supervision of the Supreme Audit Office, not under the supervision of politicians, but under the control of the Supreme Audit Office. That's what I think would probably make this thing more transparent, even the management, where, of course, there are problems with the control today. So once again, the government is proposing another law, just raising taxes for people. And I want to ask you, when are they gonna propose something that people are gonna do better, when people are gonna live better, when they're gonna have more money? So far it's the other way around, the other way around. I've already made more or less all the arguments here. I would like to ask you, Mr President... [[He's turning around to see who's running the meeting.]] Yes, you've already switched. Madam President, I have proposed three points, four points. I would like to propose this as point 1, 2, 3, 4 on the agenda for today's meeting. Members are... I'd like to talk about it now, so it's this morning, because at 18 o'clock, there's an opposition window, so there's no confusion again. The opposition window will be presented again by our Member Radim Fiala, who will propose points to our opposition window, which again I really consider very inadequate that you will give us three hours for the opposition window here, and, of course, as I said, in time, on purpose, in a postponed time, just to keep us from rolling anything again. I wanted to tell you one thing. There's one more thing I wanted to say. You guys have fallen even to such lies, and I've noticed what happened here last Friday, as the opposition overruled the coalition in the construction law. Yes, the SPD wants us to finally get out of that 150th, 140th site at Bangladesh level and to speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic, because now even flats can't be built. Prices are escalating. Whoever built the building, and I have the experience, it's just really incredible for a long time. We are around the 150th place in the world as far as the length of the construction process is concerned, between developing countries. And now the government's five-calibers are trying to hold it back so we can stay in that 150th place. That's one thing. But most importantly, I wanted to get back to the vote. Some government MPs lied that the SPD didn't keep any deals. No, you all know there was no deal with the SPD. You didn't even come to us. So, okay, you're the five-caliber politicians who have a hundred-eight-ball majority here, and you don't want to talk to us. You're not talking to us. Okay, well, then we have plenty of room in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to have fun here on the microphone. And that's fair. You don't talk to us, you don't want to talk to us, all right, so we'll talk to the microphone here. And I look forward to seeing you in six months' time or a year's time when the media will ask you what you've done in the House. And I look forward to seeing if you have the strength to say that because of your own total inability to do politics, you didn't enforce anything because of two opposition parties. That would be for immediate demise and departure, because such incompetent politicians who are unable to sit at the table are unable to normally have some fun, find some political compromise, normally have fun in the interests of the citizens, as we do here in the House, how we will work together and how we will move these things, so that we can tell each other what we want to promote here with regard to our programmes, and they went on some political agreement, political negotiations to make it work here - you decided to roll it hard here. But we're not, we're doing standard work here, we're just fighting for our program. You're killing it, you've got most of it. So don't tell me anyone's doing any obstructions. We don't do obstructions, we speak specifically in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I don't read any books here. This may come to another point, for example, but the book will be to the point. And I'm saying exactly what we want to promote because you don't want to deal with us, you don't have time to deal with us, so I have to explain this to the microphone that the SPD is promoting to hear each other. And that's how it's gonna be. And as for the introduction to the House, of course, you threw more than half a million votes of SPD voters into the trash, and of course our voters don't like that. Our voters don't like it, because you said, among other things, that the vote of the voters of the Pirates is five times more important than the vote of the voters of the SPD, and that is unacceptable discrimination for us. It's not like that. In front of the Constitution, each voter's voice has the same weight. And we're just gonna explain it to you here because I'm gonna fight for SPD voters every last breath, and they know it. Until my last breath, I will fight for the SPD voters, even if I remain alone, even if I remain alone against your hundred and eight-ball coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u5	Thank you, too. At this point, I have to, because a number of apologies have accumulated, so at this point, I have to read my apologies. I have here an apology for Mrs Ivana Mádlová from today's meeting from 10 to 18 o'clock for working reasons, further an apology for Mr Ivo Vondrák, today between 18 and 21 o'clock until the end of the meeting day for working reasons. Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 9.50 to 11 o'clock for working reasons today. I also apologize to Mrs. Lenka Knechtová, between 9:45 and 18:00 for reasons of work. I also have an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from 9.45 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. Furthermore, I have an apology from Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, both on Thursday 27 January and on Friday 28 January for health reasons. I also have an apology from the Minister of Health, Mr Vlastimil Válek, for today's day from 10.30 for work reasons. And the last apology is Mrs Helena Válková, from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. At this point, it was all apologies. Before I give the floor to the Chairman of the TOP 09, I would like to point out that we have fixed points for 11 o'clock. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Paragraph 81, but I would like to state that, paragraphs 57 and 58. And it is clear that we will not be able to address these points, because there are still a lot of attached Members on the agenda. And before we decide on the agenda, at this point, there's a chance to meet with the club presidents, or I'm giving room for a proposal, like a modification of the program. I wanted to say it. I thought it was necessary. [[11.00 hours]] And at this point, I would like to give the floor to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, Mr Jan Jakoba. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in brief, I must also respond to what we have just witnessed. I'm used to not being surprised at anything here, but I still have to be amazed. I am not sure that this was, in terms of the approval of the programme, incentives, completely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to describe the printed matter already included here, its content, it is only for them to be discussed in particular. However, I respect that President Tomio Okamura has priority rights, but I think this is already on the verge of abuse of that preferential right. [[Members of the SPD disagree.]] Thanks to this, however, we have come to the situation described here by the Vice-President of the House, and I would therefore like to make the following proposal for the programme for coalition clubs. My colleague Excellent proposed press 56 as the first point of today's meeting, which I confirm, but now at 11 o'clock three more prints were to be included, and so I would like to propose that the original point 81, which is printing 98-E, the Agency for Fundamental Rights, should be included as the second point of this hearing. Another point 57, which was now to be included at 11, is press 91, EUTELSAT, to be the third point in today's negotiations, and last but not least paragraph 58, print 92, the World Postal Union Act, to be the fourth point in today's negotiations. So please, we could deal with the situation that we have been in thanks to President Okamur. I firmly believe that in the next discussion today, what happened a moment ago will not jeopardize the discussion of the so-called opposition window, as has been put forward here, because we need to discuss these points if we include them, which I presume we need to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u7	Thank you for the proposal, and I would like to announce a five-minute recess at the Club Chairs' meeting at the moment in order to agree on the procedure that has been put forward here at the moment, and I would like to ask that all Members of the Clubs come to me at this moment, please, and thank you. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.03 to 11.05 hours.]] I would like to thank you for the meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs. At this point, we're still on the agenda of the meeting, where I'm still calling on a factual remark that is not possible at the moment, and I don't see Patrik Nacher here, so I'm erasing it - it wouldn't have been possible anyway, but I wanted to say it. [[Noise in the hall.]] We continue to apply for an amendment to the approved programme and Radek Koten is logged in here to include a new item, namely Information of the Government to address energy prices and their freezing. So will I ask the Member, or at this moment with priority rights does the chairman of the SPD want Radim Fiala? I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as president of the club, the SPD MP, I would like to take the liberty of reading here three proposals that should be discussed this evening at 6 p.m. in the so-called opposition window if the coalition allows us to discuss these proposals at 6 p.m. It's a coalition thing. The agreement was that there would be an opposition window, when our bills, i.e. from the SPD or YES, could be discussed on Thursday after 6:00 p.m. Let me also comment on the proposals a little bit, even though they have already been commented by President Okamura, but I would like to comment on them from another point of view. So the first proposal we are proposing, Madam President, for the opposition window is item 15, House Press 8, and it is a proposal for a constitutional law on a national referendum. In our opinion, this is one of the most important points that the Czech Republic should have. People should have the right to make decisions in a referendum. They should have the right to decide almost anything in the referendum, when the Czech Republic, of course, writes it. That is, a referendum is a real government of the people and not politicians who can have their interests. The reference is made by all European countries except two, and we are one of them. The referendum is a real democracy. Real democracy and not only democracy in quotation marks, which the five-wheelers here are trying to present, so-called representative form. The representative form means: throw me a ticket to the urn in the election, and we'll sort it out for you for the next four years. And for four years, people have nothing to talk about. And that's wrong. People should decide in a referendum. [[11.10 hours]] I'll tell you, especially for those who haven't been here in the last parliamentary term, what's the history of the referendum, what I remember, especially since 2017. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] In 2017, many parties ran in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, many parties who had a referendum in their electoral programme, because the referendum is the basis of democracy. And I think it's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u9	Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna interrupt you. I will apologize and ask all those who need to clarify or communicate certain matters to do so in the foyer. Thank you very much and I apologize for the interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u10	Thank you, Madam President. So most parties, and I think that among them are the pirát who said that the referendum, the Social Democrats who are no longer here, YES and others. The referendum is indeed the basis of democracy. And how did that turn out? Well, the first option was that the referendum would be accepted for a law to exist, but it would actually be able to decide in a referendum only on, for example, the color of the Pirates President's tie, Mr Michálek, but no more important referendum would be possible. This was the first option, because the elites, not only in the Czech Republic, but the elites of the European Union, began to fear that what happened in the UK could happen, that there would happen to be an agreement between the ANO and the SPD and the government, and that there would be a referendum, in which more important things could be voted on, for example, whether we would be members of some institutions, such as how high taxes will be, or the withdrawal of some politicians, migration and similar things, which is absolutely unacceptable for the European Union and some Czech elites. Absolutely unacceptable for people to make their own decisions about these things. Well, I think we're out of our minds here! So, in the end, it was decided that the referendum would move forward in the agenda so that there would be no vote on it at all, because the risk of approval was too great. It means, it's a law that nobody wants except for the SPD -- maybe yes, I don't know -- but no one wants it. The European Union does not want it, other allies do not want it, the elites in the Czech Republic do not want it, and that is why the referendum is probably in the Czech Republic, if this government, which has a majority of 107 Members, has so far 108 Members, but so far 108, will never be approved. But the SPD will push it. We want people to be able to decide in a referendum on various matters, so that it is not just on politicians and political parties, and that is why we are the first to propose it to the opposition window, as the first draft of the law. Madam President, I will repeat once again: it is paragraph 15, House Press 8, the Proposal for a Constitutional Act on a National referendum. As the second press that we are proposing, paragraph 11, House press 4, the proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax. What's going on? These are the tax-free profits and dividends that leave the Czech Republic every year from multinational corporations to other countries. I would stop at this point, because I think it's a very serious matter. For the past two years, for the past two years, we have managed deficits of around half a trillion crowns, which are caused by the pandemic of covid and the poor management of the government of the ANO movement, no doubt. Such deficits can cause cash flow problems of the state budget to occur over the next few years, with no pension. The deficits must be stopped. We need to reduce state spending, especially operating expenditure, not human investigations, as a government coalition does, which, at 10% inflation, reduces what has already been approved to 1,5 percent. This means that real income for this year's employees will fall by about 8 percent. 8 percent of the real income on civil servants' salaries will fall due to this government. Two types of huge amounts leave the Czech Republic each year due to multinational corporations. The first is so-called optimization. That means every company that operates here is a multinational group, has a mother somewhere abroad, in Austria, Germany, France, Belgium, doing so-called optimization, which means it increases its costs so that it doesn't have to show such huge profits. There are even multinational corporations that make a turnover of 58 billion in the Czech Republic, and they don't pay a crown of taxes. Not a penny! These optimizations are about 200 million, and I'm convinced that the Financial Administration should look into it. This can't be happening! Sorry, 200 billion, 200 billion do multinational corporations optimize. And the other amounts that are leaving us are 300 billion, which are profits, dividends, and other tax-free items. This means that every year half a trillion crowns leave the Czech Republic, half a trillion crowns to other countries, to other countries, and we are convinced that this must be taxed. Why are the benefits of Špidlův's government, which has promised the European Union with great servility that these profits, dividends will not be taxed, very servilently? Because multinational corporations work with those countries, taxes apply there, right, so for those big countries like Germany, France, Austria, it's just very advantageous. But we're suffering from it. [[Are we?]] Imagine if we had about 400 billion more in the state budget each year, so we would have to be in surplus if it wasn't a covid or a pandemic or something, so we'd be in surplus. Imagine if we put that money into infrastructure, health care, seniors, handicapped people. There are just so many things where we can apply the money, and we will just let them leave the Czech Republic. You need to look at it, you need to tax the money so that at least part of it stays here. Why do Czech citizens pay taxes here and foreign multinational corporations don't? Just what is it? I'd like to remember Alois Rašín, who said after 1918, "Do you want to do business here?" So this is where you're going to have your mansion, and you're going to be paying taxes here. And I am convinced that this is an important thing at the moment, because otherwise we are becoming, from the Czech Republic, a real economic colony and we are getting into big financial problems. So, Madam President, the second draft bill I propose is item 11, House press 4, submitted by the SPD, it is the bill that amends Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax. [[11.20 hours]] And the last third law that we propose to the opposition window is item 19, House press 12, a bill that amends Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. It's also a law that comes from the SPD pen. The bill has such an unofficial name as "my house, my castle." Let me introduce you in part and justify the main principles of this law, including the effects of this law. The main principle of strengthening the necessary defence is to provide citizens with a higher degree of security and security. As President Okamura has already said here, it is not possible for someone to overcome your obstacle, to break your door, to climb into your house; and then, when something happens to you, to be covered for doing something to him, to the person to investigate the necessary defense, if you really used the weapon in the necessary defense, when the man overcame the obstacle, he climbed into your house at midnight and wanted to shoot you there, and he was also a convicted repeater released from custody. So these are just incredible things and people have reasonable doubts that the law is not on their side. I think we have a lot of people like this in the Czech Republic who can tell a long and long story about what they have tried with Czech courts and investigations. So that they do not have to worry about using adequate tools and means, when someone violates their home freedom, they will try to enter their homes and make them feel that the perpetrator may endanger their health or even their life. The new regulation anchors the principle of "my house, my castle," which is part of some foreign modifications. It strengthens the position and self-confidence of a citizen who is attacked in his home and intends to defend himself so that he does not have to worry about subsequent prosecution by the state authorities when he used adequate tools against a perpetrator who is often armed. In such a case, the attacker takes the risk that, if justified by the threat to the property, health or life of the entitled person, the victim will defend himself effectively, but without any penalty from the State. The amendment of the law is intended to serve as a defence necessary in a situation where the necessary defence would not have to be in an unprotected area, and at the same time specifies the requirement of the law that it must be an imminent or ongoing attack, as, according to the current regulation, the defender, for example, must wait in his home for the attacker to be directly attacked if he does not want to risk prosecution. I will read that sentence once more, that is something incredible, because according to the current regulation, the defender, for example, must wait in his house first before being attacked directly by the attacker if he does not want to risk prosecution. For example, shooting through the inner door of the attacker, which has already penetrated the protected area, can also be used as an appropriate example. At the same time, the new regulation covers a situation where the attack is being waged against another person present and the defender intervenes in its behalf. The limits to the use of the necessary defenses are set by the so-called legitimate concern, which suppresses the possibility of possible abuse, the legitimate concern of the defender cannot be, for example, the guiding of defenses at a very high distance or against the fleeing attacker, that is no longer necessary defence, that is evident. The court will have a conclusion on the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of the necessary defence to protect the dwelling. However, the important thing is that when assessing the adequacy of the necessary defense, it will be based on how the circumstances of the attack appeared to the defender, not the attacker. The present regulation follows the current development of the case-law, which is aimed at increasing respect for and strengthening behaviour, as well as the authorisation of a damaged person in an unexpected situation of life, to which immediate, immediate and spontaneous response is necessary. The proposed legislation does not have immediate or consequential effects on equality between men and women and does not result in discrimination against one sex, since it does not distinguish or favour one of the sexes and does not provide for different conditions for it. So I could keep going. But I think it's obvious what we want to achieve: that when you're home, someone overcomes the obstacle so that you don't have to be afraid to defend yourself, and that the state authorities and institutions always stand on the side of the defender. Madam President, that's all. Let me rephrase that last suggestion. It is paragraph 19, House press 12, a motion for a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. And there are three laws that I wanted to ask you to approve for us in the opposition window, which are important for us and which we would like to discuss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u11	Mr President, thank you, too. If you had it in writing to check it out, especially the third point, I would be very grateful if you could come to me during the call of other Members. At this point, before I pass on the floor to another Member, I would like to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Petr Sadovský, from now on between 9:30 and 18:00 for reasons of work, further apologizing to me at this time to the chair of the ANO member's club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, for half an hour, that means within 12 hours. Furthermore, I have here an apology from Mr Lubomír Brož, today between 11 and 18 o'clock, for work reasons, and the last apology is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Lipavský, from today's meeting, on the ground of a foreign trip. So that was all the apologies. And at this point, I have an application for an amendment to the approved agenda of the meeting, where, according to the Rules of Procedure, the time limit is already five minutes. I ask everyone to keep this limit. The first person I invite to the speaker's desk is Mr Radek Koten. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I hope to breathe it out tonight. I would like to place another point for those points that are already included, titled Information of the Government on the upcoming measures that will address the increase in energy in the Czech Republic for citizens of the Czech Republic. As has already been said here, this government has not yet prepared any solution to this situation. Since the new electricity bills, gas and so on and so on and so on and so on, the heat, including water, are being reflected everywhere, even in the distribution of food, and the solution, I think, should have laws of this type. The Prime Minister was to inform citizens in this way what he would do for them in this regard. Instead, they are listed here according to my almost unnecessary laws such as correspondence choices, because correspondence choices do not help Czech citizens, which helps... who therefore live in the Czech Republic, to be precise, because she should make it easier in quotation marks for people who do not live in the Czech Republic in the long term, most of them do not pay taxes here either. It is the government and the Members that should defend the interests of the citizens who live and pay taxes here in the Czech Republic, because the government and Parliament are, in fact, some sort of tax administrator and should manage them economically. So from my point of view, this law is for those people who are now getting more expensive energy, water, food, and so forth, so it's unnecessary for them. [[11.30 hours]] Just like choosing a national bird, that is one of the program points of this government's statement, and I think we already have a national bird, which is a falcon, because it's also called an organization that organized youth a long time ago. And I think that this is the kind of thing that doesn't have to be traded on the stock market, so that the US pension funds don't buy it and that someone else doesn't benefit from it, and that's what consumers in the Czech Republic are paying for in the finals. And for this government, at least from the way I see the points that are included in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, it's better for them to have a pandemic law, because then they could - like the Nuremberg laws - then three people in the Republic could decide whether or not you're going to visit the family on the other side of the community, or whether you're going to work, or whether you're going to go shopping. This is totally unacceptable for me, and I think that we should be dealing with these things here, which directly affect citizens and companies in the Czech Republic, and that we should therefore know what the solution to the energy price increase is. From my point of view, these energies are so expensive for several reasons, and that is because we have to trade, or our energy producers, and that energy is produced in power plants that were built before 1989, except perhaps Long Struggles and Temelín. But since we're exporting 53 percent of the energy, I don't understand why the rest of the energy we're using here, we're trading through the stock exchange, and we're making it more expensive for citizens in the Czech Republic. That's one of the things I don't understand. But, of course, it is thanks to the European Union, because she has mentioned that this is how we will trade in energy. So I would like this point to be included, and if we could talk about it, so that we can know what measures the government has planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u13	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time. I have registered this item, Government information to address energy prices, their freezing. At this point, I must apologise to the President of the SPD, Radim Fiala, for one hour, that is until 12.30 hours for business reasons. Furthermore, I have another application for an amendment to the approved programme, and I would ask that Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, who also submits a new item, come to the speaker's desk, for detailed information on the reason for the donation of ammunition to Ukraine. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, and you have a five-minute limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u14	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the Government, I have decided to sign up and propose that our honourable Parliament discuss the point that I called the Detailed Information on the situation in Ukraine and the detailed justification for the gift of artillery ammunition that we send to Ukraine as a solidarity issue. I have to stop at a lot of things that led me to do this. First of all, in detailed information, if the Czech Government, if it is sending these things, does it know that a number of people in Ukraine, who are very important both in business and in politics, have Israeli passports? And one of those people who has an Israeli passport, a Mr. Kolomojskij, is banned from joining Israel because he supports the battalion Azov, who has those insignia of the Das Reich division, i.e. the Nazi division. Did we know these things when we were thinking about the support? If, and I think it's part of foreign policy, if that's the new foreign policy, how did I read in the government's statement that we're going back to Havel's foreign policy? So I thought about it and I thought about what Hawaiian foreign policy was. Is this the humanitarian bombing policy? We've just changed it a little bit to solidarity because we're going to send ammo out of solidarity to Ukraine. They're cannon shells, 152 millimeters. It's a special solidarity like the humanity of the previous. But I understand that in this absurdity, we can go back to calling it that it's a return to Havel's policy, as I read in the government's statement. Me so, because I'm from Děčín district, and you know, there is a Šluknovský prognosis, where 55,000 people live in relatively difficult conditions. We are still missing something there, and especially we lack the infrastructure of health, perfect health and available health. We have a hospital in Rumburk, which is in very desperate condition. And I think when we send something somewhere, and we call it a noble gift of solidarity - it's grenades that will rip people's legs off. That's like the humanitarian bombing that also killed. I think it was 17 April 1999 during the humanitarian bombing, one of the bombs that fell on Batajnic, the cities next to Belgrade, killed three-year-old Milica Rakia. It was a cluster bomb, a bomb that was banned in the world, but it was used in the humanitarian bombing at the time. And the bombing at that time was also conducted in violation of international law, which means it was without the blessing of the Security Council. That means, if this is a return to foreign policy, then God be with us. So I wanted to ask the government officials to explain it to us in detail. What led us to send 152 millimeter rounds of ammunition to Ukraine? And if it really wasn't better to send something like the Němec sent there? They've had a lot of experience with the exit. They know the war in the east isn't very pleasant, so at least they sent 5,000 helmets. That's better than sending ammo to rip people's legs off. The Němec at least there, after experience, which is certainly very varied from the past, so they're sending these helmets. I would, therefore, like a detailed explanation from the mouth of government officials. [[I'll ask for some time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And thank you very much for your patience and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u15	And if you could please tell me again the exact name of the given point on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u16	Detailed information on the situation in Ukraine and detailed justification for the donation to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u17	Thank you very much. At this point, I have an apology to cancel, Mr. Minister for European Affairs, Mr. Mikuláš Bek, which therefore cancels the apology for today. And at this point, I would like to invite Mr Jaroslav Bašta to the speaker's desk for a proposal to amend Mr Jaroslav Bašta's approved programme - I would ask him to come to the speaker's desk - which also requests the inclusion of a new point. Ambassador, your five minutes, you have the floor at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u18	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two months ago, the decree of the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenský, began with a law that he sent to Parliament, one of the greatest security crises in recent decades, which can be compared to the Caribbean crisis almost 60 years ago. The law was called the Transient Period Act and described what would happen when Ukraine regained sovereignty over the two rebel republics and Crimea. The Russian Federation considered it a violation of the Minsk agreements and, like Ukraine, which withdrew the 120,000 soldiers from the truce to that border, the Rus responded by pulling 100,000 soldiers and following the accusations from both sides. Then it started, and today, two months we hear about the preparations for the invasion of Ukraine. The change in this regard occurred two days ago, namely from Ukraine. The first person to react was President Zelenskyj, who withdrew his bill from Parliament. The second responder was Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, who let himself be heard that the attack of the Russian Federation, Russian troops on Ukraine, is not imminent because Russian troops are not close enough to the Ukrainian border - they are in Voronezh, 250 kilometers away. Followed by what should bring the situation back, that is, in Paris, representatives of the so-called Norman Four gathered, which is the Russian Federation, Ukraine, France and Germany, and they were discussing precisely that they should return to the Minsk agreements. The Minsk Agreement is a matter which, in 2015, almost a year of war and 14,000 dead conflicts froze from the hot one. In this situation, the Czech government decided on the exact day when the tension was relieved, so the Czech government decided to send ammunition there. To a country torn by civil war! The ammunition they will send to Ukraine, whose armed forces are not only the Ukrainian army, but also voluntary units, either private armies of individual oligarchs or even individual political parties. And the people in those volunteer units, for example, testify that the terrorist who shot up the mosque in New Zealand had been practicing shooting in the real sector units before, even had their signature on the weapons. So my question in this case is quite clear. The Czech Government should explain why it sends ammunition to a country to be torn by civil war when tensions are alleviated rather than helping with diplomatic negotiations. And if they took into account the fact that at the exact moment they made the decision, there was something else going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. That point is called Information of the Government on the latest developments in the crisis in Ukraine. Thank you. And at this point, we have another application for a motion to amend the approved agenda of the meeting, when Mr Radek Vondráček is signed in. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm holding press number one here, it's the press that was first uploaded into the House of Deputies' system, it's the Bill on lobbying. And it's related to the draft number 2, which is the law implementing, the law related. Of course, since this is already the 6th meeting and we have the end of January, I think this proposal deserves its consideration. We've been offered an opposition window since 6:00 p.m. today. I just have a quick reminder about that. The Rules of Procedure make it clear in Section 53 that the date of the hearing is from 9 to 21 o'clock. On Monday is not a meeting day, on Thursday, according to § 112 and 111 a.m. it is reserved for written interpelations, afternoon oral interpelations, so the only most productive day we have is Wednesday, when we meet from morning to evening. And that is what the current coalition has shortened for the purpose of the government meeting. From my point of view, it is a limitation of parliamentary debate from the point of view that the Chamber of Deputies is the main arena for representing opposition politicians. We don't have press releases like ministers like government coalitions. We are expressing ourselves here on this microphone and basically restricting our right. The offer I'm going to use, from 18:00 to 21:00, exists here, but from my point of view, it is not correct enough and does not represent respect for its political opponents in the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore propose, in view of this, to include these points, press 1 and 2, as the first points today immediately after the approval of the changes to the programme. If this proposal is not granted, I suggest, in the alternative, that these points, press 1 and print 2, be classified as point 1 and point 2 within the opposition window from 18 pm today. Lobbing itself is already the great evergreen of this Chamber of Deputies. We spent almost the entire previous term on him. The press reached the third reading and was not successful due to the obstruction of the opposition at the time, it was not accepted at the third reading. I consider it almost scandalous and unacceptable that lobbying did not appear at any point in the government's programming declaration, while the OECD-type international organisation that discussed lobbying and recommended it to national legislation, now I say it out of my mind, but I think that in 2013, if it is in the long term on the list of requirements of the GRECO Group of States, if this is basically part of our international commitments, it is a great shame that we do not yet have legislation in this area. If I were to briefly define lobbying, lobbying, or promoting interests, is a legitimate part of the democratic process in developed countries. It is seen here as a positive and legitimate activity. The aim of the proposed regulation is to lay down rules for lobbying and to define it as a standard activity within the framework of the legislative and decision-making process at central level. This is legislative lobbying. The basic criteria for dealing with lobbying regulation are to increase the transparency of lobby activity in relation to the adequacy of the chosen solution in terms of both legislative and overall cost, as well as to strengthen the transparency of the legislative and decision-making process and public control in this area. These measures should, in particular, reduce adverse events often associated with lobbying, such as corruption, conflict of interest or clientelism. For the sake of completeness, I add that this proposal, which I have tabled, is the result of expert debates, political debates on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and is the exact result of a compromise comprehensive amendment, as adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee in the previous parliamentary term. [[11.50 hours]] The absence of conditions guaranteeing the transparency of lobbying in the Czech Republic and the resulting failure to control the public on the one hand reduces the legitimacy of the role of lobbyists and, on the other hand, enables the public interest to be threatened, the legitimacy of public decisions reduced and the priority of personal, hidden or partial interests. To adopt the relevant legislation, we have long-term...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u21	Mr. Ambassador, time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u22	... also invites non-state non-profit organizations. Thank you for paying attention to me and following this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u23	Member, thank you for presenting this proposal. I just have to say that the chairman of the SPD's parliamentary club also asked for the inclusion of these points in the opposition window as points 1, 2 and 3 and his proposal will be voted on as the first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u24	I insist that he be voted first. In the event that the first motion by President Fiala is adopted, then I suggest that my vote be voted on as the first one after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u25	Okay, then we'll settle with the vote. Thank you for the clarification. At this point, I have another motion to amend the approved programme, and this is Mrs Marie Pošarová. I'll ask the lady of the house to come to the speaker's desk. Is there a Member here? It's not, okay. At this point, I have Mr. Jiří Kobza here, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have your word, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, hello. I would like to propose the inclusion of a new item entitled Discussion on Military Assistance of the Czech Republic Ukraine. In the foreign policy programme of the Government, there was a Return to Havel's Foreign Policy point and one other point was the Revision of relations with Russia. When I read it, I couldn't think of the memory of what was happening in Yugoslavia, the famous humanitarian bombing, and the way the entire European Union delivered weapons to Yugoslavia at that time. Personally, I think it's a crime to supply weapons to a country where civil war rages. And there is another precedent, and that is the question of Czech machine guns, machine guns and ammunition, which former Minister Stropnický devoted to the so-called moderate Kurdish opposition to the fight against Bašár Asad and which were to be carried there by Američan. And what the devil didn't want, these weapons were identified and found in the hands of the fighters of the Islamic State. In Ukraine, we can assume a lot of similar development because we are dedicated to the artillery ammunition of the state where different armies fight with different command, I consider high gambling because no one will guarantee that this ammunition will be used against civilian targets in Luhansk and Donetsk. We must certainly not allow any risk that this ammunition will be used to shell civilian targets, that it will bring civilian casualties, so that this risk is not taken into account in any way. The question is whether we are really asking for it and want to support the emergence of another Yugoslavia behind our lobsters. It is a question of why we did not learn from Afghanistan, where the barefoot shepherds with the Kalashnikovs were able to resist NATO armies for 20 years and finally escaped in disgrace. But now we're in another league, we can't compare Afghan herders to armies that are fully armed with modern weapons, whether they're on both sides, on the one hand American weapons, on the other hand Russian. We must not allow Ukraine to become a test polygon of the effectiveness of these weapons, because the moment we start, or when they start, then, of course, the question is, where will our government be willing to go? Will he send soldiers there? He's gonna send in more specialists? Now we're talking about grenades, but when does it come to more effective weapons? We must consider very carefully what we really want, if we want to arm armies that are beyond any central command and in certain ways can be out of control. After all, last night a goalkeeper in Ukraine shot five militiamen, basically the situation there can be very wild and completely out of control. So our view is that we do not agree that the Czech Republic should interfere with this conflict in any way. And then, of course, the question is whether the conflict will break out, what are we going to do with the tens of thousands of refugees who are going to roll across our borders? [[Prime Minister, your time.]] Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u27	Thank you, too. I am calling for a new item discussion on the supply of military equipment to Ukraine. Thank you. At the same time, I have another apology, Madam Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, who asks for an apology from 9 to 14.30 o'clock, for work reasons. At this point, I see Vice-President Jan Bartošek reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, the beginning of the meeting is to serve under the Rules of Procedure to make proposals for the completion or modification of the agenda. The contributions, which are merely a statement, are to be heard in the general debate, not at the beginning of the meeting. I see a discussion with priority law and a debate with priority law, such as the President of the SPD and others, as an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because only proposals for the adjustment of the programme are to be heard within the first half hour, everything else is to be discussed. It is on your part a regular obstruction act that prevents the negotiation of the proposed laws. This means that in the first half of an hour only Members and Members who will make a proposal to amend the programme are to speak. Everything else is, in my opinion, contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u29	That was with priority rights Mr. Vice-President Jan Bartošek, and at this point I have another application for proposals to amend the approved programme, when Mr. Jan Síla is registered. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk and tell us what point he wants to place. Mr. Ambassador, your five minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u30	Thank you. Madam President, government, colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to join in proposing a new point to discuss increasing the participation of seniors in dental care. [[12.00 hours]] Since 1 January, as many of you probably do not know at all, new legislation on dental products covered in full or in part by health insurance has entered into force and effective. It is a change and a completely new amendment to Annex No 4 of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, regulating dental and orthodontic products. In addition to the new legislative technical concept, the amendment also brings a number of fundamental substantive changes concerning both the products covered, as well as the scope and other conditions of payment. For the record, I don't think we're talking about this anywhere, it hasn't been mentioned anywhere in the mass media, but it has actually come into force since 1 January. Just to illustrate, let me tell you what this is all about. This simplification can be summarised: for composite plastic crowns, the limit has been extended from two to four years, for other fixed works from five to eight years, for removable replacements from three to four years and so on. This is therefore a significant increase in all these products and the final result of this adjustment will be an increase in payments, i.e. the participation of patients requiring dental and orthodontic products. Of course, with increasing age, these services are most needed among the oldest inhabitants, that is to say, pensioners, and it is the seniors who will take this amendment away the most. It is another salami wheel cut off from solidarity health insurance for the commercialization of health care. And my question, or my point, is to discuss increasing the participation of seniors in dental care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u31	Thank you at the moment for presenting the proposal and I note that we have here another application for an amendment to the approved agenda, and I would like to ask that Mr Zdeněk Kettner, who is also reporting for the inclusion of a new point, should come. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. When we adopted the amendment of the law regarding the director's leave and distance teaching, I accepted with gratitude the positive reaction of the Minister of Education, whom I do not see here, however, if I remember correctly, he accepted with gratitude the extension of the powers of school directors. For me, I would like to take advantage of this to make it common knowledge that there is simply political agreement here to address this issue, so that it is not swept under the table, that it is proposed by someone inappropriate, and I want the public to be declared an effort across the political spectrum of the powers of directors to really increase, not only at the time of the pandemic emergency, but at some time of emergency, to increase, increase, and to ensure that directors have peace of mind in their work as well as in normal state affairs. Of course, these are not powers as such, but, as I have already mentioned here, there is a big problem with the administration, which is becoming more and more - constant completion of various tables, reports that have virtually zero effect on direct teaching activities. What is practically - there is zero influence when every year I had to fill out five sheets of different tables, how many laptops we have, how many hard computers we have, how many of them are available to children, how many public, how many teachers, when it's combined, what has a wifi connection, what doesn't have a wifi connection, what is connected to a landline, how much wifi, what areas is access. And this way, maybe ten minutes I can list what I have to fill out in that chart, including how many computers are over ten years old, what we bought under two years of age, etc. And I'm just wondering, if you need to get those new computers, that director knows again. So what's the point of this administration, when I, instead of preparing for teaching, just devote my free time to filling out similar tables? As a result, I'm assuming that this is going to be some kind of beautiful graph, some clerk is going to check out that I'm just fulfilled, and that's actually all that this table has been filled out for. So this is what we should be dealing with. Another problem is when it is not clear what the founder may want or not want from the director, and I often have to say that in our town, on the contrary, the hat is down, in our city there is huge support from the founder of schools, but it is not everywhere. Some instigators overwhelm questions, require confirmation and approval of certain things which are not strictly legal to them, but do not forbid them to do so either. That's all those school directors are doing in a huge way to make the job harder for them. I therefore propose a point of discussion on extending the powers of directors of educational establishments outside the pandemic situation, that is, in normal operation. I assume that, within the political spectrum, every political party has experts, educators, elementary school directors, secondary schools, university professors in its ranks, so I think that this discussion would certainly have a professional level, and it would be a clear signal not only to the pedagogical public and the directors involved, but also to the parents of pupils who attend these schools and for whom it is definitely in the interest of the pupils to receive adequate education at a quality level, thanks to the fact that the director and teachers will prepare themselves directly for teaching as such and will not deal with a huge number of papers that are not related to the direct teaching activity at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u33	Thank you for the proposal. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Subsequently, the proposal to amend the approved programme, Mrs Marie Pošarová, will be prepared by President Alena Schillerová, which is the last two, respectively. two registered in writing. Please, madam, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am heading for a change in the agricultural sector and for a redistributive payment. Time for change is given by this government by the end of this January before it announces to the European Union how much this redistribution rate will actually be chosen by the Czech Republic. I would like to speak and appeal to you about major changes in the agricultural sector. I speak mainly for farmers and agricultural cooperatives, which produce 80 per cent of food to feed the Czech population for food safety. The government, which is called democratic, should deal with the law established by professional organisations, and it prefers to talk to non-profit organizations, such as the DOUHA movement. What the government coalition is presenting is essentially a dictatorship. For better understanding, the European Union is changing the names of individual grant titles again. The former Green Deal, which is EUR 72 per hectare, will become an eco-payment of EUR 69.39 per hectare. There's no problem here. As regards SAPS, i.e. payments per hectare per area, they amounted to 131 euro per hectare. This payment will be divided into so-called BIS 71 euro, which everyone gets to all hectares, and the second so-called. KRIS 152 euros, which everyone will also receive, but only for the first 150 hectares. Nothing for the rest of it. This is the result of the decision on the redistribution payment, which was still 10 %. This took place big, in neighbouring Germany it is 12 percent. The Chamber proposed an increase of 15 percent, a coalition of 30 percent. The government seems to have calculated a simple average, otherwise I cannot explain how they came up at 23 percent - the most from across the European Union. It follows that farms of up to 150 hectares will benefit from 100 euros per hectare, up to 300-320 hectares will be on their own and the others will receive about CZK 1,300 per hectare less than this acre. [[12.10 hours]] You want the villages to live while destroying them. Most people go to cities without a job. Why should people stay in smaller villages when you're destroying their livelihood? Is it that some may have hundreds of thousands of dollars or millions on grass land or on food production? I hope that I speak for everyone now that the Czech producers of agriculture and the farms that produce, grow, grow and have to have companies for the processing food industry. Without them, everything will lead to decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u35	I also thank you for presenting the proposal. The next is a written proposal to amend the approved programme by President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me read, ask for the inclusion of House press 34 - Parliamentary proposal, Act on Financial Arbitrary, first reading, where it is proposed to extend the scope of the financial arbitrary as an out-of-court consumer dispute resolution authority in the financial market, to resolve non-life insurance disputes, supplementary pension insurance with state contribution and supplementary pension savings. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the scope of the financial arbitrary to another range of consumer credit-related relationships, which as such is already within the scope of the financial arbitrary. In cases where, for example, in addition to the consumer, the credit recipient, the guarantor, or if the debt is secured by a lien, or if the consumer has recognised the debt. I'm asking for an assignment for today, Thursday, January 27th, at 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u37	I also thank you for keeping time. We have now dealt with all the written applications for the draft agenda. And I see another registered with priority rights, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Government, colleagues, other than statements for those who, God forbid, may be following our negotiations on some kind of record, so as to make it clear that the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is not capable at the moment - and is de facto blocked - of discussing any of what we had on the agenda here today, and it is important for the citizens of the Czech Republic, is an issue of the opposition that is successfully blocking it here. However, what I want to say on behalf of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09 and Pirates, I give the veto on all four points that Mr Tomio Okamura has proposed to include in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u39	So I'm also recording your proposal, or the veto, it's quite clear. Subsequently, Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 and then Mr. Chairman of the SPD came forward with priority rights. So, Prime Minister Jakob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I feel that SPD colleagues should read the Rules of Procedure again - what we saw here a while ago does not belong in this point, but in the intercession, and finally what they mentioned here, so I saw that they are already in the winning interviews. It is not only for this reason that I dare, on behalf of all five coalition clubs, to report all proposals for the inclusion of new points, all of which have been presented here by colleagues Koten, Foldyna, Bašta, Kobza, Síla, Kettner and colleague Pošarová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u41	So we will no longer vote on these proposals, because they are being brought up. Mr. SPD Chairman Tomio Okamura's priority is now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u42	Dear ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mr Marek the Výborný of KDU-ČSL, who represents the five-calice, he said he hoped the public would not see this meeting. On the contrary, I hope the public sees this, because just a moment ago, the five-calice government blocked a number of laws that would help people. You are actually blocking a) the discussion about Ukraine, that Minister of Defence Jana Černochová is considering sending Czech soldiers to Ukraine - we do not agree with that. You're dragging us into this war, and you just blocked the debate. It is such a serious point that I think that you should have allowed this debate, because trying to make Petr Fiala's government try to bring the Czech Republic to war against Russia in Ukraine and it is not at all... we are not pro-Russian and so on, but still, to engage in war, it doesn't matter who I said it with. So the fact that you've blocked this point is really absolutely anti-democratic. You're trying to build totalitarianism here. I would like to strongly point out that your government coalition does not have a majority of the citizens' votes, because if we count the million votes that fell in the elections of those citizens who voted for parties that were below 5%, your government did not get the majority of the votes of the citizens who came to the elections. Yet you have now blocked the debate. Yes, Mr Marek Výborný of the KDU-ČSL for the People's Party has blocked the debate with the five-calice Members about discussing such a serious matter here. The fact that you are sending military material, but mainly you are considering sending Czech soldiers to Ukraine, which is not even a NATO member, so it is necessary to say what you have now blocked. Furthermore, Mr Marek Výborný on behalf of the five-wheelers, it is necessary to repeat it again, who is the five-wheelers - they are pirát, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and KDU-ČSL - so you have blocked the point for Mr Ivan Bartoš here to allow him to express himself, the Minister for Regional Development and the President of Pirates, as well as Vice-President of the Government and Members of Ivan Bartoš to explain here, you have allowed him to give the space to tell the public finally why, contrary to the Pirate Code, he accumulates the functions of a member of the government and of a Member. So this is the point that you have just rejected here, the debate, because your government coalition just doesn't want to explain it, because for you, this is what Mr Marek the Výborný of KDU-ČSL said, it's just that it's arrogant behavior and that you probably like the scams on the voters, because the pirate code was very clear. And now it would be good to have such a cowardly meeting here, but I don't have another word for it that instead of expressing Mr Ivan Bartoš about it, he's not even here anymore, he'd rather leave, he's probably afraid, and instead, Mr Marek Výborný went to say that they don't want to discuss Mr Ivan Bartoš why he accumulates functions contrary to the pirate code. So even Ivan Bartoš didn't come here to say it, you didn't even let him! That would be fair for Ivan Bartoš to come here and say: No, I suggest the veto, because I do not want to discuss why I accumulate functions contrary to the pirate code, unlike my fellow Member Michálek, who said that he should not accumulate in the pirate code, so Mr Jakub Michálek for Pirates said that he would not be the Minister of Legislation - we read it in the media - and he prefers to keep only the MPs. What if they fired the pirát from the government so he could at least have the MP? I get it, but it's-- he said it straight-- okay. So that's the point you rejected. And then Mr Marek Výborný gave the veto on behalf of the five-calice debate because you took it so hard to veto it all, so I need to clarify it so that it's clear what you put the veto on, and we would like the STAN movement, but it's the Pirates coalition, STAN, to clarify who the end-owners of the companies, the natural persons, the companies connected to the Cyprus tax havens that sponsored the Pirates and STAN election campaign. At the same time, we wanted to know what the money came from to tell us, Mr. Vít Rakušan or representative of STAN. And that's what you've brought in, so we won't know again. We've had our attention to the investigation committee, or you've refused to let us know. We heard the police are saving it, but the police are under Vít Rakušan, under the Home Secretary, so it's a conflict of interest like crazy. On the basis of an internal interview by Vít Rakušan even before he became Minister, just before he was appointed Minister, Police President Jan Švejdar resigns. And now that we're asking how it's going to be, you're going to give us a veto on it. So once again, the public, not our voters, not even us who are in opposition, we just don't have a chance to know. So you, who called for transparency before the elections, are now defending the public from learning this information. [[12.20 hours]] So you basically put the veto on these points, and at the same time - I mentioned it in my speech - we also wanted to discuss the moment - and it is here that the pirát are wondering that they can agree to this - we also wanted to discuss the situation within these points, why you propose Miroslav Kalousek, and, as it is obvious, you will also push it into the Board of Directors of the VZP. I just read on the Internet that the pirát are calling for Miroslav Kalousek not to be behind the government coalition on the Board of Directors of the VZP. I don't understand it now that the pirát are in the government coalition, so now here they agree to fill in these discussion points. And on the Internet, as is their custom, they just say they want to hear something. I mean, the pirát said the week before last that they were calling on STAN to clear up the funding. Here's the pirát MP, I see Jakub Michálek here, so you don't want to know anymore? I mean, Stan didn't answer your question. I mean, Stan didn't answer who the end owners were. After all, you yourself used the term "end owner of the company" here repeatedly in the last parliamentary term, and suddenly you don't want to know who is the end owner of the companies that sponsored your election campaign? Yeah, they were Stan's sponsors, not yours, but you ran for coalition. So really, you're breaking everything you promised before the election! You guys should get off here right now and what I just read on the list, right? Pirates say they don't want Miroslav Kalousek on the General Health Insurance Board, so make this point possible! So why are you just smacking the media again, and now that it's here in the House, suddenly it's not appropriate? Then don't say it. Don't play the comedy. Let's discuss here why Miroslav Kalousek is proposed by the government coalition to the Board of Directors of the VZP, where he will influence the billions of crowns from public insurance. So don't turn your back on it, or Mr Jakub Michálek, who I see here is the only one behind the pirát, so let's explain why your boss keeps three positions at the same time - Prime Minister, Member and Minister of Local Development. Three functions accumulate in violation of the pirate code. So that's what you guys just rejected here, the discussion points. That's what you have to say about what you're rejecting here. And we insist that these things be discussed here, and most importantly, we insist that you face it. It's not possible to roll around like this. So that's what I wanted to add to this. I even internally noticed that a government MP came to us and started calling us here - so he said there would be no opposition window! They're still threatening us - they're saying there won't be an opposition window. Well, you normally have totalitarian manners! What's that supposed to mean? So that we want to know who's funding your election campaign, why are you breaking your election vows, why do you want to bring the Czech Republic to war in Ukraine, why haven't you submitted a state budget so far, so you're threatening us because you're asking, so we're not going to make your opposition window on your bills at 6:00 p.m.? Where did you get this, these totalitarian manners, these dictatorial manners? Over half a million citizens voted for us. The SPD has more MPs than the TOP 09s and the pirát. How dare you blackmail us like that? We want to enforce our laws, we will be constructive, we offer negotiations to everyone here because we want to deal with you. And you're rolling this place hard, and you think you're gonna dictate the whole Czech Republic here. Look at the pandemic law you're presenting. After all, you have completely taken over the dictatorship in your arrogance and in your activism, you have overturned the so-called pandemic law from 95 percent of the emergency clause, the emergency state. That is, you here want to restrict the normal laws of constitutional rights and freedom of citizens. By the way, the right to business is in the constitution, and you're putting it into the pandemic law. And now that we've brought this to your attention - and the SPD has brought to your attention the negotiation of the pandemic law - so while other countries are relaxing and considering dislodgement, you're here promoting a totalitarian pandemic law. You want to avoid saying by chance: Yes, we government coalitions, the five-wheelers, want to promote emergency status and restrict citizens' rights, so you hid it under the new name pandemic law. And under the new name of the pandemic law, you want to restrict citizens' rights and freedoms, you're going to flip the emergency clause. But that's what the emergency is for. If such a situation actually occurs - which is not here, it is a constitutional law - to some dictator or someone who wants to do one of those for the citizens so that it doesn't have to be that simple. And now you're going to hold an emergency meeting for Tuesday. That means, you're saying we should be ready from fall. Well, it's January now, and there's absolutely no reason to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens by some pandemic law. That means, on Tuesday - and I can already hear it here: We want to make it hard, the pandemic law. Government five-wheelers - ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates - want to enforce the pandemic law hard so that it doesn't look like they want emergency status so that they can limit citizens' rights and freedoms. Those are your bills you're promoting here. And here, even later, Marek the Výborný, through Madam President, says that we are blocking the laws for people here. Yes, we don't want the pandemic law. No, it's really not for people. I think that citizens do not agree that, in this situation, when measures are already loosening up, you have some totalitarian instruments at your disposal here. What happened to the Odees, what happened to this side? I mean, you guys are so-called totally Brussels sunshine. What happened to this side? Anyway, I know you here. You are normally a pro-brussels party that no longer defends the interests of Czech citizens. You're defending the elite government, and that's pretty clear. So, with the pandemic law, if that's what Mr Výborný is doing, through Madam President - that's the law for the people we're defending, right? Or... I already said here in my speech. Next thing you know, there's a correspondence vote. So it's for people to be manipulated by elections? In Austria, the second round of presidential elections was repeated for correspondence elections. In the Czech Republic, when the census was last spring, the Czech Statistical Office had problems, and as you know, the server fell from the very beginning. So at this time, when we're not sure about the census, you want to influence and manipulate the presidential election? There can't be another reason. So that's the law for the people you're proposing? I mean, you guys haven't even proposed a law for people here yet. On the contrary, you reject the laws for the people with the SPD here. We here want tax advantages for working families with children. We want "my house, my castle" so that citizens can feel safer at home. We want to increase the contribution to the care of the disabled. We want a minimum decent pension at the minimum wage limit. We want to put an end to the abuse of dosages that are inadaptable. We want a referendum. We want a direct choice and rebuttal of politicians. We want to help the businessmen. We want executors nationalized. We want to cancel copyright fees for business establishments for which music is not the primary earnings. Those are the laws for people, but you haven't proposed a law for people here. I don't know what you're talking about. This is our attitude about this, and really stop making this up and really start working for people. So far, you've only split an extra trough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u43	The President of the Pirates-Michálek Parliamentary Club is in favour of the next. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens who are watching this, we are witnessing today a rather frightening cocktail of defamation and hatred so that Mr Okamura can put it on Facebook, on YouTube. There is a spread of hatred and fear, with the aim, of course, of building the blackmail potential to get something for it if it doesn't obstruct the negotiation of the draft laws of this government. There's a whole bunch of different nonsense going on here, and of course we're trying not to get along too long because we have an approved program here. And now we have 12:30, and when we're going to discuss changes to the program, we're going to listen to long speeches here. This is not really intended for this, and it is obstruction. You've been blocking a standard meeting program for three hours, and there's only a performance with priority rights from Mr. Okamura of the SPD. [[12.30 hours]] I want to dismiss the accusations, the defamation that was made here by the SPD. First, the Pirates and Mayors coalition did not receive any money from opaque owners from abroad, so please do not associate us with it. And if they're here for you... If you're talking about any positions in the government or I don't know where, like, the troughs, I think that says some really nasty things about you. [[Concussion from SPD benches.]] When someone is here to perform on the finances of political parties, it should not be President Okamura, who, at his time, was associated with raising money from the Dawn of Direct Democracy, and all that money went to a company that lived in a shack and lived in it by homeless people. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Then please, through Madam President, present the accounts of Dawn, where the money went, CZK 6,000 per hour were charged there. Well, that's more than being paid by luxury companions. [[Reactions in the hall from different sides. Sudden big noise.]] So if somebody's cheating people by spreading smears, they're repeating nonsense, so let everyone make their own judgment. The thief is screaming, catch the thief. Never in this House will Mr. Okamura be an arbiter of whether or not the pirát are fulfilling the program. Our voters will never agree to that. We're not gonna let some fake promises slide in here. Our Deputy Prime Minister, Ivan Bartoš, is in the government because he has won preferential votes. The voters have chosen, the coalition has assembled, the coalition has won most of the seats in the House, and surely no one will push it to resign on its mandate. We never made a promise like that, so please don't push it around, because it just seems like you're trying to get rid of your competitor so he doesn't have the mandate he got from the voters in the election thanks to preferential votes. That's the basic bond between a politician and a voter. Of course, every politician feels responsible for his constituents, and Ivan Bartoš has 97 percent attendance here. He's taking one salary. It's one loose function. It's not a loose function, and it's not a violation of any code. So please, do not, through Madam President, or through, make a fool of people. Next thing you know, Kalousek. Then let's go back to Mr. Kalousek, Mr. Okamura. So where were you when the nomination was there? No, it was you, the opposition, who wanted Mr. Kalousek there the most, to have someone to attack, because by the time the nomination was known, you should have screamed. Oh, no, you guys were quiet, you guys didn't say anything about it. You were quiet about it, and some even out loud prayed that Mr. Kalousek should get in there so that you would have a cheap target to shoot at. So Mr. Kalousek is there because of you, especially thanks to you. [[Responses in the entire left side of the hall. A round of applause for several members of the YES.]] Congratulations, you made him. And now I would respond to the list of laws Mr. Okamura was talking about. Well, we remember the previous term. That was the SPD legislative scumbags. One of them had to be completely rewritten and then boasted the SPD in his magazine. But the law can't be done like that, really not. There's an evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation. The YES movement, which was in the government, already knows it. Those laws need to be processed thoroughly, in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, it has to be passed by the Committee on the Impact Assessment, by the Legislative Council of the Government and so on. This is the proper way in which Petr Fiala's government has committed itself in its programming statement, and we will try not to circumvent it. Of course, sometimes there's no need, you know. But in the vast majority of cases, those laws should actually go through the standard process. Please don't accuse the government coalition that there are no laws when there's a standard law-making process in the government. And what's already been prepared in the past government by the YES movement, we're not discussing here because you're building this place today. And the last thing that really pissed me off. Through Madam President, I am responding to Mr Okamura, you have accused the government of bringing us to war here. This is absolutely unbelievable, unacceptable, disgusting. All the people here, the government coalitions, and I think that coalitions, the opposition, if we want to do something good for this country, we should really stick together in such crucial matters where we work for the whole Czech nation. I consider this, I consider this accusation to be shameful. And I ask, who does it serve? [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] Who does it serve to blame someone for the upcoming aggression of another authoritarian state for throwing it on their country, their government? Really, Mr. Okamura, you have now made yourself a useful helper, a useful aggressor. And it is your rhetoric that, on the contrary, deepens tension, deepens distrust, and makes our country's ability to stand united against the pressure that is here. So I am asking you, in such a shameful way, to rule and anyone else in this Chamber of Deputies, not to accuse anyone of wanting to bring this country into war. This is totally unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u45	Before I give the floor to another party with priority rights, that is the last one so far, President Fial, I have one more change in my apology with Secretary Jana Černochová, when she withdraws from the day, but only until today she apologizes for work reasons. And now, please, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, by your means, Madam President, to Mr Michálek. I think, Mr President, you should perform more often. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] Because it was a really educational, inspiring performance, we all know how much a luxury companion costs. [[Let's hear it again from the SPD and YES benches.]] And I think if you'd kept performing, we'd have learned a lot more interesting information. To Mr. Okamur, who was raising funds from Dawn. I can tell you that, according to the nonprofit organization, you are the Pirate and son of the chief disinformer I saw here today, because Mr. Okamura has been thoroughly investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic, the D.A. All accounts and accounts of the Dawn movement have been investigated. And the criminal complaint against him and the Úsvit movement was postponed by the Police of the Czech Republic. The D.A. agreed to it because they didn't find anything at all. So I'm asking, where are the watchdogs? Where are the various nonprofit organizations that make sure we just tell each other the truth and nothing but the truth, nothing but their truth? So just so you know, everyone knows how it really is. As for today, I'm sure you can't deny us the right to propose our points. This has always been the case in past parliamentary periods. After all, the Rules of Procedure were prepared by political parties and approved by political parties such as the ODS, as people, as social democrats. It's been good for 30 years. It's always been, we've talked about it. And let me just remind you that in the last term, when you didn't want to vote, because there was another majority at a certain point, for example, when choosing the Czech Television Council, you called it the dictation of the majority, not democracy, but the dictation of the majority, and you took 12 hours of breaks. Twelve hours! And you've done it several times. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] [[12.40 hours]] We do not want any breaks in the volume that you want, in the volume of days and days of discussion, but we also do not think that what Mr Výborný has proposed here, through Madam President, I do not even remember it, the World Postal Organization for something, the law, is important to us. We think that we need to talk about other things - the referendum, the necessary defence for citizens, the fact that billions of crowns are being made here for multinational corporations in other countries, these are things about energy prices, about the food crisis coming and about the need to prepare ourselves for it, and not about what you have in your program to approve it. Those are irrelevant things to us. We just think it's different. And that's legitimate, it's not a big deal, it allows us to do the Rules of Procedure, and we present what we think to people here. And that's just politics. That's politics, that's an undisputed thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u47	Your performance has sparked another enrollment, and this is Vice-President Bartošek, so far the last priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that all evil is good for something. And so you, who are here for the first term, what is happening here... [[The speaker will be silent. Fun in the hall.]] What is happening here is not entirely standard, and this is precisely the way the SPD behaves, precisely those things that damage the reputation of the Chamber of Deputies and Members themselves. [[Rush in the hall.]] Yes, some should talk more, you'd look good in the SPD again if you talked less and to the point. [[Members of the SPD are screaming in dissent from the benches.]] If the Chamber of Deputies starts and you want to place a point, you will make a point in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure and give proper reasons. And if the point is included, the discussion will open up, it will allow everyone to discuss it, and if the will of the majority is, that point is not included. It's not a dictatorship, it's the will of the majority. And unlike the previous term, we have a majority here. While during the previous parliamentary term of the ANO movement in various ways and in different ways it sought support for its laws, that is legitimate, support was not, and the SPD was basically part of the coalition that it supported in the previous parliamentary term. We currently have 108 votes, we have a majority, and if we are promoting the will of the majority and our electoral agenda, that is no dictation. If your point is not included in the agenda, you have the opportunity to try to include that point in the committees, discuss it there, and let the committee recommend it at the meeting of the plenary. That means you are not deprived of your right to discuss points. What you are doing here in plenary is, for me, a real abuse of the Rules of Procedure and of your preferential rights. With regard to blocking the Czech Television Council, yes, you are right, but it must also be said that in the struggle for the freedom of the public media at the time, there was also a social democracy that realized how important the struggle was to ensure that the public media was completely free. And there is one more thing to say - and many have already forgotten, and I think it is a pity, and it must be recalled, especially on today's day when we commemorate the victims of the Holocaust: it was your party whose secretary was convicted of xenophobic views. These are your MPs or your MPs who are being investigated for disparaging the Holocaust, so first, sweep yourselves before you lecture us on anything. Your rhetorical exercise today is not guided by anything but fear - fear of getting into a hearing of an electoral law that will allow our voters to vote. You are currently acting against the interest of the citizens of the Czech Republic. You people don't care, you need your time on TV, you need your time to cut it on Facebook, you don't care about people. Act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, allow us to discuss our points, and let us discuss those points. You have the opportunity to discuss your laws this afternoon. No one's taking your rights away from you to implement your program. So let the coalition, too, so that we can promote our points. During the last parliamentary term, the opposition, which we were from KDU-ČSL, did not get, almost did not get to promote our points. Compared to the last term of the election, we treat you politely... [[The MPs are screaming out of the desks:]] You're right. During the last SPD parliamentary term, they were allowed to discuss their points because they were in the hands of the ANO movement. Yes, it is. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, don't yell at me. We have allowed you to discuss opposition proposals every Thursday afternoon. Am I saying that right? The deal's here. That means you have the opportunity to discuss your proposals. So let the government coalition also discuss our government proposals and implement our electoral agenda. What you are doing today is hurting the interests of the Czech Republic and disparaging Parliament itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u49	I generally see other applications with priority rights, but I will generally ask Members not to shout at each other. Next, I'll make one new apology. For health reasons, Mr Haas apologizes, from 11.15 to Monday 31. 1. Now there are two priority rights, the first of which is Mr Radim Fiala, well, he prefers President Okamur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u50	I will only respond briefly, because otherwise it was, of course, Mr Bartošek's desperation without arguments. But here I would like to remind you that Milada Horáková was executed at the time of the National Front. The members of the National Front were people's people. Well, that's one thing. That's a real problem. I'd like to remind you that Mr. Bartončík was also a convicted St.B. agent, so you were collaborating directly with the previous regime. And last but not least, you are attending a convention of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which is proven - and we all know that - was founded by forged Nazis and fascists. So it's a really big monster and a big chuck, and I have nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u51	Mr Bartošek is the Vice-President of the Bartošek. There's no way to apply the real thing here. We're not exactly in the program yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u52	Thank you, Prime Minister Fial, for allowing me to perform. The national front always comes at the moment when the arguments run out. If you don't know where you're going, and you're cornered, then bang in the National Front, which is evidence of your argumentary emptiness. Do you know the history of KDU-ČSL, do you know the history of folklore? Do you know how many of our people died in the camps, how many people were persecuted, how many people were forced to emigrate in the KDU-ČSL ranks? [[Highly:]] Do you know how the People's Party was demolished, and those who were managing it back then were collaborators? That's what happened! What did you bring for this nation, except for the one man Mr Balda, convicted of terrorism who was rooting for you? We brought the victims! Your policy is merely the strife, hatred and polarization of this society! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u53	Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u54	I won't be as emotional as my colleague Bartošek. I think the situation needs to be calmed down. Just, Mr colleague, through Madam President, you will have to get used to the fact that we too will want to tell people what we would do if we were in government, what laws are our priority, and then, as you rightly said, we will cut it and put it on Facebook. Not because we don't care about people, but because we want them to know what we think about it, about the situation, and how we want to deal with it at the moment. [[12.50 hours]] Instead of the World Postal Organization and instead of the Pan-European pension product and other non-profits that we currently do not need, which has been included at 11 o'clock today, we would like to address energy poverty, the constant rise in energy prices, which will not simply end. And if anybody here thinks it's going to drop, as I've seen in some headlines that it's already falling, the price of energy, and it's going to be okay, well, it's not going to be because there's more power plants closing, and if there's a shortage, then obviously demand is going to be bigger than supply. And this is a fundamental economic law that says that energy prices will rise. A food crisis will be added to this after the energy crisis. You don't contribute to this. And I have an interview with the Prime Minister today, we have an interview with the Minister of Agriculture - not one here I think is - and we want to ask him why are you destroying agriculture? In our opinion, these are other - Czech agriculture - that they will bring us cheap food from India and South America, which will not even be controlled, will be full of pesticides, various salmonella and I don't know what. So these are important things for us, and not your nonprofits and world postal organizations or arguments about some Balda who wasn't our member. It's not my fault someone was rooting for us. You also took pictures of who knows who, and you didn't even know about it. These are things that just go beyond politics and beyond us. And now you're using it as an argument. Let's talk about energy, energy prices, food prices. That's what people care about! What we can do about it, why we don't have long-term gas contracts, why we leave - why we don't do anything about it, and we're just creating a new social benefit that someone will have to pay. Either you raise taxes or you borrow them, but that's not the answer. We don't want that here, at least we don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u55	Again priority right still, another registered, and this is Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u56	Mr. Chairman Fialo, I appreciate your practical approach. These are the real problems of this country, these are the real problems of these families, whether energy prices, inflation, or the state budget. Yes, these are subjective topics that we are ready to discuss, we just need time for them. Today we have four hours when we have done nothing at all, of which two hours belong to you, then we have discussed it. If this is the way we needed to start a constructive dialogue, O.K., four hours is an acceptable price. If this manner of behavior were to be repeated, it would probably be for a serious discussion of what to do with it. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] Anyway, we're gonna have a matter of fact, so thanks for the attitude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u57	Now I don't see anyone else logged in. We can therefore get to the vote on individual proposals. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will address the proposals to amend the agenda already approved by the meeting. [[Applications from the diaper for check-out.]] Yes, I hear interest in the check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-engage with your ID cards. The first was the proposal made by President Excellent that we should place paragraph 43, which is the House Press 56, firmly as the first item in today's negotiations. I therefore beg you, since the number of people present has settled so that we can vote on this proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of a fixed item number 43? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 78 series vote, 143 Members and Members voted in favour of the proposal. We have therefore placed this point as the first point in today's negotiations. Four proposals for new points followed, which were vetoed. These were Mr Okamura's proposals. The next proposal was made by the Chairman of the TOP 09 MEP Jan Jakob and concerns three points. We will therefore vote first on paragraph 81, which we had today initially firmly placed at 11 o'clock, as the second item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 145 Members who voted 128 in favour of this proposal are voting in order number 79. He was therefore accepted. The next proposal by President Jakob was paragraph 57 as a third point in today's negotiations. So I am opening the vote on the proposed amendment to the agenda of the meeting and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 80 series vote, 145 Members and Members were enrolled, of which 128 were in favour of this proposal. So he was accepted. The next motion tabled by President Jakob is paragraph 58 as the fourth point in today's negotiations. This is House Press 92. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote on order number 81, 145 Members were enrolled and 127 of them voted in favour. The motion was accepted. Other proposals were made by the President of the SPD Radim Fiala. This is specifically the first proposal, item 15, House press 8, i.e. the proposal to issue a constitutional law on a national referendum, its firm inclusion. So I don't have it written here today - it's like the first step in the opposition window, so that means the first point at 18 o'clock. I hope we all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for a fixed point number 15? Who's against it? In the vote order number 82 145 Members and Members were registered, for 23, against 69. The motion was not accepted. Mr Vondráček is voting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u58	I'm just technically, because we're about to get to my proposal. I designed a tight 18-hour two points on lobbying. I first suggested that this should be done immediately after the approval of the programme, so it is no longer necessary to vote, I take it back, it is no longer worth it. But then I proposed a firm 18-hour lobbying and related, whereas Radim Fiala suggested it as the first point of the afternoon meeting. I've suggested a specific time. I don't know how it's going to connect with what's been proposed by the coalition, because you want those first points this afternoon, if I get it. I'm set for 18 hours, tight for 18. It's possible to check on the log. Well, I take back the request that it be immediately after the program, because it's pointless, but if you would allow me to respond to the new situation and that it would be after the... [[Radim Fiala off the microphone: Radek, I didn't get away with it, so you can...]] So in that case, I propose the first point at 18 o'clock, and if I don't get away with it, after the points proposed by the presidents of coalition clubs. Is it okay to vote like that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u59	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm just going to repeat exactly how you formulated your proposal originally, because the Vice-President, who was in charge of the meeting at that time, recorded it here. You suggested this point as a solid classification within the opposition window as point number 1, which would mean at 18 o'clock. So now President Fiala's proposal has not been passed, which means that this proposal is still voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u60	I'm sure there'll be 18.00 on the tape screen. But I don't want to argue, I'm looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u61	I can't judge either, I wasn't present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u62	So let the vote be put to 18.00. I may not be successful, and then please allow me an alternative proposal after the four points that lobbying would be the first, i.e. the fifth point of the afternoon negotiations and the sixth point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u63	We'll be on our own, I'm sure we will. It is possible to vote this way because the President of the Fiala's motion has not been passed. Therefore, we come to the second motion by President Fiala, who proposed paragraph 11, the House press 4, the bill amending the Income Tax Act as a second point, but by not declaring the first point, so that it would be the first point in the opposition window. We all know what we're voting on. It's a proposal for a fixed point. Initiating vote. This is point 11. I said, who's against it? Voting number 83, 144 Members and Members have been voted in. The proposal was not accepted because it did not receive sufficient support. [[On the board: for 17 Members, against 20.]] We have a second motion from Chairman Fiala. He made one further proposal, and that was item 19, House press 12, a bill amending the criminal code. Once again, as a fixed point, it would have been the first point in the opposition block from 18 o'clock, because none has yet been firmly placed. I am opening the vote on the last proposal to be put forward by President Fiala. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 84, 144 Members present have been voted in. The motion was not accepted. [[On the board: for 17 Members, against 38.]] . Radek Koten lectured on the other points, and five vetoes were raised on them. Another proposal was presented by Mr Foldyna, once again the veto of the members of the government coalition. Another proposal was presented by Mr Bašta, once again the veto of five MPs. And we are coming to Radek Vondráček's proposal, which wanted the press number 1, the draft law on lobbying and related, as the first item today at 18:00. It's one and two, so it's... Sorry, we're just gonna make a deal here... [[Meeting off the microphone with Vice-President Mr. Vildumetz.]] So press 1 and 2, today's 18 o'clock as a solid assignment. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 85, 145 Members and Members have been voted in. For it was only 47, therefore the proposal was not accepted. Another alternative to the proposal for a solid classification of prints 1 and 2 by Mr Vondráček as the fifth point today after the already fixed points: the fifth and, therefore, the sixth. Yes, fifth and sixth. Once again, I am opening the vote on the proposal put forward to put these points in order and to place them firmly. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 86, 145 Members and Members were elected, 121 of them for the vote. That means we've classified press 1 and 2 as a fixed fifth and sixth point of tonight's meeting. Then followed the veto on Mr Kobza's proposal, the veto on the proposal of Mr Síla, as well as Mr Kettner and Mrs Pošarová. By voting, we must deal with one more proposal made by President Schillerová. It is the House press 34, paragraph 32, the Act on Financial Arbiter, which proposes today, Thursday, as the first point at 18 o'clock, a fixed point. That's what it sounded like. Do you still want to comment on that exactly, Madam President? So please clarify the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd like to modify the proposal, because now it's unrealistic that the point can be, so that it's clear, at 18 o'clock, when we've moved on. So I'd put it like... I believe now it's the seventh point, the seventh point of today's meeting, it's point 32, the House press 34, the MP's bill on the financial arbiter, the first reading. Like the seventh point of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u65	Thank you for modifying the proposal, which is already voteable. This is therefore House press 34, item 32 and fixed classification as the seventh point today. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 87, 144 Members and Members have been voted in for 47 and the proposal has been rejected. If I am not mistaken, but I prefer to make sure that we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made. A large part of them were vetoed, i.e. all of them that were voteable. We therefore have now approved amendments to the agenda of the meeting. And since we're already dragging five minutes of standard time off, I'm just gonna tell you that there's going to be a meeting that we've just modified from the point of view of solid inclusion, which means we're starting point 43. In the afternoon at 2:30 p.m., oral interpelations begin, first for the Prime Minister, and then they follow the interpelations to the members of the government. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-000-000.u66	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, it is 14.30 hours and the next item on our agenda is:
