ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Law /House print 137/ - second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. On 2 February 2022, the Government approved a draft law amending Act No. 283/2001 Sb., i.e. building law. The draft is submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development. The aim of the bill is to postpone the implementation of the system of state building administration so as to avoid the actual creation of the Supreme Building Office and the regional construction offices. On the contrary, the establishment and implementation of the Special and Appellate Building Office is maintained, which should start to exercise its competence from 1. 7th year of 2023. The bill introduces a so-called transitional period when from 1. 7. 2023 The Specialised and Appellate Building Office will authorise reserved buildings, i.e. the buildings listed in Annex 3 to the new construction law, in particular line construction, already under the new construction law. Other constructions will be up to 30. 6. 2024 to be authorised according to existing legislation. As a result of the transitional period, sufficient time will be provided to change the structure of the construction offices by the planned institutional amendment to the construction law, while providing sufficient time for the software and material equipment of municipal and regional authorities, which should be left to the authority of the building office according to the planned institutional amendment. Divided efficiency will also help smooth start digitization and launch of information systems of the state administration. At the same time, it will provide more time to train employees of construction offices at the level of municipalities and regions, and last but not least will facilitate the filing separation of construction offices and archiving. The proposed bill constitutes a formal regulation of the original Membership proposal by Members Bartoš, Kupka, Věra Kovářová, Jan Jakob and Marek Výborný and others for the issue of the law amending the new building law, which is the House press 63, whose discussion has been suspended. 25 days. 3. 2022 was approved at first reading by Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, followed by a discussion by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. This took place on 14 April 2022. The Committee recommended by resolution The Chamber of Deputies has 137 to discuss and approve as amended by two amendments. The first amendment excludes the use of the Construction Portal for administration of the management of reserved buildings, as the Construction Portal will not be operational at the moment. The second amendment reduces the effectiveness of the introduction of part of the Seventh Act concerning the public administration information system to 1 January 2024, since it is not a real start-up at the beginning of 2023. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the subject of this amendment is not a fundamental substantive amendment to the new construction law, which is discussed separately, while the inter-resorative review of the substantive amendment on this material takes place from 7 April to 9 May of this year. At the same time, I would like to say that really - and I would like to appeal to this - this is a part where, to a certain extent, the implementation of one part of the law is postponed or postponed, the terms are being shifted. Again, this is not a substantive amendment to the law, it should not be the bearer of any further changes. This is a simple modification. After all, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has also acted in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 137/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Klára Dostálová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and of any amendments to the committee to justify it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. As regards the Government's draft law amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Building Act, Press 137, Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development The Chamber of Deputies discussed this press 137, i.e. the Government's bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., at its meeting on 19 April 2022 and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill with the amendments adopted. 10 Members voted for the amendment from the Ministry of Regional Development Bartoš, 2 opposed and 3 abstained. For the resolution of the House press 137/1, which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill with the amendment adopted, the vote was the same. The amendment tabled by Mr Ivan Bartoš addresses the postponement of the date of application of certain provisions in the sixth order of construction, which sets out the obligations for the use of information systems of the building administration in the building procedure from 1. 7. 2023 and the effectiveness of Section 7 of the Construction Act. It is proposed to shift efficiency to a period of up to 1. 1. 2024, which according to the petitioner is necessary for the implementation and basic testing of information systems of the building administration. This amendment therefore concerns, in particular, the area of digitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u5	Thank you, too. I open a general debate in which I register three applications. With priority rights, the rapporteur, then Mr Kolovratník, Mrs Peštová and Member of the Stržínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u6	Thank you again for the floor. Now, therefore, as a Member, even with priority rights as rapporteur. We have a change in the construction law again on the table today, actually, as part of the second reading. I would really like to appeal again to all of you to think very carefully about delaying the effectiveness of the construction law. I'd like to revisit a little bit of history so that we keep remembering and realizing the situation we're in. Current - still effective - Building Act No. 183/2006 Sb. it has been amended by more than 25 amendments and is marked by a gradual increase in complexity, formalism, bureaucracy, both in many types of various authorisation processes and in a huge number of authorities and institutions involved in the authorisation and review of it, in particular through the decision-making of various construction offices in municipalities and regions with very different levels of performance of state administration, the risk of their political influence on the representatives of self-government, the systemic bias that the courts judge, and binding opinions, or stamps of dozens of types of authorities concerned. [[9.30 hours]] The result is complicated, intelligible and virtually all long-term critical state oriented to mutually conditioned formal processes before substance, which binds the potential of the Czech Republic's economic, cultural and social development and causes frustration to virtually all those who come into contact with permit processes in the construction industry. Even a number of NGOs, including environmental associations associated in various platforms, issued a public challenge in 2015 for fair, faster, better and easier building decisions. In general, World Bank data is also known that the process of building authorisation in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world by the length of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u7	Colleagues and colleagues, though not many of you are here in the hall, yet you are very noisy. I will ask you if you need to discuss any topics to move this discussion into the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u8	Thank you very much. As I have already mentioned, the World Bank's record is that the process of building authorisation in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world. According to the length of the standardised construction procedure, the Czech Republic has been placed in 156th place from 190 evaluated countries with a length of 246 days. And here I'd just like to remind you that these are just legal deadlines. The World Bank evaluation process did not reflect the delays that are in the Czech Republic because the legal deadlines are not respected. A number of European Union countries are addressing the problem of the complexity of the legislation on construction law, the length of the authorisation processes and the consistent fragmentation of the unification of authorisation regimes and the integration of the protection of component public interests into a single authorisation procedure conducted before the building office. There is virtually no other solution. For example, ten years ago, about half of the Member States of the European Union joined the territorial and construction proceedings into a single authorisation process. I am referring specifically to Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. It can be seen from this that, of course, the path that we have reached with the new construction law is certainly the way in the right direction. Perhaps all Czech political parties in their programmes declare the need to change the current state of public building law and simplify and accelerate the authorisation processes. Even the current government has this in several places in its programming declaration. New Construction Act No. 283/2021 Coll. and related amendment law No 284/2021 Coll. has been approved after four years of intensive preparation and legislative work carried out by a broad expert team, comprising dozens of experts both outside and within the state administration. Since the 29th. 7. 2021 are part of the applicable legal order. Some of the provisions of the new Construction Act have already taken effect on 30 July 2021, the next on 1 January 2022 and as a whole should take effect on 1 January 2022. 7. 2023. The new building law has met expectations, in particular the real and fundamental deformification, unification, acceleration and simplification of the authorisation process, with the preservation of all public interests and rights of participants, and with an emphasis on the substance and weighting of conflicts of interest in the territory as part of an integrated procedure conducted before a single and uniform building office. That means that we get the principle of one office, one procedure, one stamp. Again, I would like to remind you what all the good new construction law brings. In particular, it is a procedural reform, which means the abolition of all the existing ten types of authorisation processes, including the two-stage nature of the territorial and construction proceedings, and their replacement by the sole procedure for the authorisation of the intention. I'm sure you're wondering what ten types of driving we have. So just to remind you how much we have actually tried to merge into this one building procedure: today we have territorial proceedings, territorial proceedings with the EIA, common territorial and construction proceedings, common territorial and construction proceedings with the EIA, simplified territorial proceedings, territorial consent, common territorial consent and consent to the implementation of the notified construction project, notification, building permit and public contract replacing the building permit. Another very important step was, of course, to ensure the elimination of the phenomenon of systemic bias, which is judged particularly in large cities, but it is of course a matter of time, because it is an instrument for delaying the construction process, so that this will spread very quickly unless we do something about the institutional model of the government. It is the institutional reform, which means the establishment of a new uniform system of state building administration, following the model of cadastral offices, that will abolish more than a thousand municipal and special construction offices in municipalities and regions and solve the problem of disunity in the performance of the construction administration and systemic bias. It's not about the construction authorities disappearing from villages or regions. Of course, it is about being a unified system of building administration, there will be territorial workplaces everywhere where, of course, people have construction offices today, but the advantage is that officials will be representative, that there will be a uniform methodology, and it really should lead to a more effective process of construction. The third, really important part of the new building law, from my point of view, is the integration of the authorities concerned. This integration of the institutions concerned will repeal almost all binding opinions, i.e. separate opinions, separate stamps resulting from separate underlying procedures. Today we have less than 50 of these separate stamps. What does that mean? Each individual stamp is also independently reviewed, so you can imagine that, for example, on a project of student tracks, where they needed 45 individual round stamps, there are also 45 possibilities of review, appeals, which of course delays the construction very much in time. And just so you know, student dorms don't stand to this day, because if you've already got one stamp of legal power, of course, you're gonna lose it to the rest of them, because that's where the appeal processes are going, and you can start over. Our aim was therefore the maximum integration of these authorities concerned into the decision-making of the building office. Therefore, the number of necessary stamps of authorisation is strictly limited without restricting or abolishing the protection of any public interest. It is also a very odd idea that officials who defend public interests under the component laws today would stop protecting them within the building office. This is, of course, absolute nonsense, an official is always bound by a component law and will always proceed according to it. The protection of the majority of public interests is entrusted to the building office, which will be strengthened by officials of the existing authorities concerned, and also allows it to assess in substance conflicting public interests. Probably every one of you who has ever built something, you know that today's unhappy situation is that you have to have 12 to 20 pairs of project documentation so that you can run around the individual organs with the documentation. Hygiene has different requirements, firefighters have different requirements, conservationists have different requirements, and who other than the construction office should be the one who will have all these public interests experts under him to assess one single project documentation from all angles of public interest protection, and the investor, whoever it is, gave one feedback, what all needs to be modified in the project documentation to be eligible for the approval process. Today, the builder must take care of all of this himself, and there are really big surprises in the housewarming process, because of course the project documentation changes according to the needs of the individual body concerned, so the situation is really very unclear. By expressing all the interests of the public authorities concerned in one opinion, one opinion is, of course, allowed for this to be properly appealed and reviewed. But it goes on once, not 50 times. [[9.40 hours]] I also consider it very important to mention content simplification. We have faced this very much, and I have said it here several times, that investors and small builders have turned to us, that what we really consider necessary for delivery for the authorisation process is that it requires project documentation for the construction of a family house as well as for the construction of a nuclear power plant. That is why we have also come to the simplification of content, which means that the construction office only examines and permits details of urban and basic architectural and technical solutions of the project, enabling the assessment of its mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety and impact on the territory and environment, not the internal technical details of the construction, which are the building's work and designer's work. Another area was the unification and modernisation of the requirement for construction, at least the basic, so far fragmented requirements for construction from many departmental decrees - indeed today there are a lot of decrees in which designers must focus, so the effort was to get the most important elements of modernization of construction requirements directly into the law and should be specified in one single decree or city regulations, because the new building law allows for the largest metropolitan cities in the Czech Republic - Prague, Brno and Ostrava - to have their own separate building regulations. Another heading was or is the use of planning contracts. Many mayors have turned to me with the fact that they would very much like to make an agreement with property developers in the territory, however, by not having legal constraints, the mayors sometimes move on the edge of the law and of course want us to legalize it so that the legitimate pursuit of the interests of self-government towards builders and investors in the territory and thus increase the legal certainty of investors in the territory and ensure the approval of the authorities. Certainly a very important point is the participation and concentration of management. Everyone can participate in a single authorisation procedure, and we have not eliminated anyone from this process. All concerned, including environmental associations, may participate. But objections can only be applied once and only when possible for the first time. Indeed, it is not possible for a building procedure to take place, no one came forward at the beginning of the construction procedure, no problems, and during the construction procedure somewhere suddenly appeared out of nowhere a rare beetle or some rare protected animal. This means that we really allow everyone to express themselves, but they have to express themselves at the beginning, and of course all those involved can express themselves, and then, of course, the building office will take that into account. However, if they start to express themselves during the proceedings, when the possibility has actually expired, they will not be looking at any further objections. Another area is the reform of remedies - once again very important. By actually trying to unite, integrating the institutions concerned into one building office, separate reviews of binding opinions, which abstained from the appeal proceedings, are abolished. The so-called ping-pong is being interrupted, that is, the appeal principles are being introduced, which is that if an appeal is made, the appeal authority has to decide, it cannot return the first instance to further proceedings. This is also applied in the trial phase. And I really think that this is very important precisely to ensure that the construction process has clear boundaries, that, including the appeal and review of the builder within a year, he will know whether he can or cannot build. What I consider to be absolutely fundamental, paradoxically, is that I saved it completely for the end, is digitalization. We're already in the 21st century, the digitization of the building process is alpha omega. There I am really glad that we have already incorporated a lot of elements of digitization into the existing construction law during the last parliamentary term, and we are continuing digitalisation. The whole procedure is to be conducted electronically, with original electronic documents in information systems uniformly equipped by the state building administration. Of course, we are debating in space that there will be a change in the new construction law, that it wants to be left as it is today in the municipalities. In a way, digitalization can be threatened here, because the idea that 700 municipal construction offices will remain... How will we unify them, how will we ensure uniform implementation and so on? But that's not the principle of today's discussion. I believe that the petitioners are aware of this and that even for them digitalisation is really essential. It is precisely in the context of digitization that there is a slightly absurd debate about the fact that the construction office must be at the place of residence. On the one hand, we digitize so that we do not have to go to the authorities at all, and on the other hand, we call for all the authorities to have their place of residence. The tenth heading is the judicial review, i.e. in the context of judicial review, there is an acceleration and deformisation of the judicial review, equalisation of the position of the builder with the applicant, concentration of the objections, penalty for the lodging of bullying actions, and prior consideration of the actions with suspensive effect. The eleventh point is urban planning. The new building law does not limit the role of self-government against the existing building law. Without amendment, the key steps in the preparation of the land-use planning documentation, i.e. the acquisition decision, the approval of the assignment, the selection of the most appropriate variant, the issue, the approval of the administration of the application, the change decision, the issuance of the change of the land-use planning documentation, remain the separate scope. Compared to the existing construction law, the authorities are newly entrusted with the possibility of discussing proposals for settlement of comments before submitting a decision on the merger of joint negotiations and public consultation. Furthermore, the municipality's separate competence is granted a new right to comment on the definition of the built-up territory and the right to apply the comments on the draft territorial measures. The new building law, and you have all already noticed in the media, was a broad expert jury of the competition Law of the Year, organized by Deloitte Legal under the auspices of the Czech Bar Association, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Tax Advisors selected as the law of the year, that is to say the best legislative act in the field of the quality of regulation of Czech business in 2021. It should be recalled that the nomination board of this competition has 30 members. They choose the top five from around 500 legislative standards in 2021. And then the public votes. And the public voted more than 67 percent that the best law of the year is the new construction law. And I'm very sorry that the new minister didn't come for the award. Then allow me, together with my colleague Martin Kolovratník, to give this diploma to the Minister. I'd like you to put it in your office so that if you're going to make material changes to follow... [[Mr Martin Kolorodětík comes to the Minister with a diploma, which he gives to the Minister with congratulations. A round of applause from the ANO benches.]] Otherwise, perhaps even for the reminder of who is needed as part of the nomination board - they are judges, they are judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, they are many lawyers, they are also the Union of Towns and Municipalities. So the notes that this diploma was handed over by the Chamber of Commerce really aren't appropriate. We need to get to know who's on the nomination board. [[9.50 hours]] It should be recalled that, of course, even in the context of the fact that more than 67 percent of the public has chosen a construction law, it is in a way a binding element for the public, and so if we proceed to the revision of the system of public building law and all related component laws, it must be said that this is technically highly complicated. Work on the new construction law took place for more than four years with the involvement of dozens of external experts and hundreds of comment points with three discussions in the commentary proceedings and in the Legislative Council of the Government. A substantive intention once, paragrafo a text twice and an annual discussion and a number of amendments to the Chamber of Deputies. Performing fundamental parametric changes to the new construction law without real involvement and perception of the opinions of both the professional and the public concerned, as unfortunately the Minister Bartoš is doing today, poses a clear risk to the quality of such an adjustment. Indeed, such a standard needs to be discussed in a wide range of experts, including the unpopular opposition, which is not ready to break it, but is ready to help with it. Believe that every minister, and we can get here, we have now exchanged roles with the Minister within the Committee, one day of course he can change roles into an executive role, and there's nothing worse than when you work hard at something and try to put it into life, so that the other party thinks there's someone here who wants to break it up at all costs. There's no such thing. Of course, I know how the elections went, I know what the outcome is, I know what the political task is, but please, the new building law is not a political standard, it is a professional standard, and we should agree on that, knowing, of course, that the election result and the political will must somehow be reflected there. As far as the Government's proposal and press 137 are concerned, it is essentially very similar in terms of content to the previous parliamentary press, which is under number 63 and has been submitted by a group of Members. It is only with such small technical differences, but it is submitted by the government. This means that this is no longer a parliamentary proposal, but it is a government press. The proposal was approved at first reading 25. 3. 2022 and ordered by the Public Administration Committee, which discussed it and approved it on 14 April 2022. In view of the subject matter of the proposal, an appropriate modification of the heading of dedicated priority buildings may be considered, which should be authorised by the State Specialised and Appellate Building Office. For example, I would expect amendments in the spirit of complementing critical infrastructure structures and the like. The aim of printing 137 is therefore to delay the effectiveness of the new building law by one year, but with the exception of the most important so-called reserved buildings according to Annex 3 of the new building law. Only for your awareness: dedicated buildings include motorways, rail constructions, air constructions, water tanks with a capacity exceeding 1 million cubic metres or with an altitude of more than 10 metres, buildings and transmission system equipment, electricity generation with a total installed capacity of 100 megawatt and more, constructions and equipment of the transmission system, gas storage tanks, oil and production installations and their components, buildings for mining, processing, transport and storage of radioactive materials, buildings related to the storage of radioactive waste, buildings in the nuclear facility area. For all these types of buildings, the new construction law will apply unchanged and logically I have to ask from this place why, if the new construction law is good for the largest constructions of the state, for the most strategic constructions of the state, why is it not good for the citizen? It doesn't make sense. Even a citizen deserves to have clear deadlines so that those deadlines are enforceable by the state. Once again, we are very often accused of being a citizen, if I fail to comply with something against the state, I will be fined immediately, but when the state fails to meet the deadline for a citizen, nothing happens! And here in the new building bill, we were trying to get that citizen to have those deadlines. Many young people say to me: I have an agreed good mortgage, I need a quick building permit. But in this construction process, a year, two no-one, and young people lose the favourable interest rates in the finals. A new construction law will apply to dedicated buildings, as I said before, to the largest constructions of the state. They would therefore be authorised at first instance by the State Specialised and Appeals Office, which would itself assess all public interests without the need for serious opinions of the institutions concerned. At the second stage, the appeal would be decided by the Ministry of Regional Development, which should still act as the Supreme Building Office and which should no longer be annulled and the case returned to further proceedings, but would have to decide the appeal definitively. The proposal therefore implicitly admits that the rules of the new construction law are significantly better than the current law and should therefore be used as soon as possible and not only from my point of view for the most important constructions of the Czech Republic. As the biggest weakness of today's proposal, I consider the fact that the proposal takes place in fact not to shift the effectiveness of a part of the new building law, but only to introduce the use of most of the processes that it considers to be taking place, whether through planning or authorisation processes. The new building law would apply only to won buildings, buildings related to them and constructions forming a set of buildings. I believe that the situation where the new building law will be effective, but most processes, including the newly initiated ones, will be governed by existing legislation, can cause confusion and legal uncertainty, which will only lead to an extension of the processes as such. This may result in the exact opposite of what was intended by the new construction law and the amendment, i.e. the processes to accelerate and simplify. Especially in relation to Law No. 284/2021, the so-called amendment law, can be said that the processes will be most complicated for the authorities as well as for the builders. Such a condition cannot be considered to be correct. There is also a question as to whether this procedure is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, especially if it is possible by law to establish an obligation to follow an already ineffective law, and the law which replaces it is fully effective. All the lawyers involved in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development pointed out all these problems, yet the resolution of the coalition's votes was adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u9	Thank you, too. I'm registering one factual remark that's been erased. And now the Prime Minister's priority right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u10	Thank you, rapporteur, for coming to discuss this second reading from the House delegation. I really appreciate it. I just want to respond to one thing. So either we talk about whether the law was written correctly - I congratulate you on the price, we got the citizen's right to digital service and a lot of others. When I illustrate something on a poll - and it's not relevant, there's always a number of people voting - you said, so society wants. So if there is an Internet survey that has a representative sample of 67 percent of it, I would be very careful to say that this is the opinion of the company - the opinion of the people who are interested in the programme, who took part in this vote with 67 percent. After all, this is how I approached similar prices, which I received in eGovernment, for example, and together we invented a lot of interesting things. But to be a little critical, too. We are talking about the speed of building authorisation, the availability of housing in the Czech Republic. If I am not mistaken, YES was the Ministry of Regional Development, where the law on social housing includes the law on the availability of housing, where the construction law belonged, for eight years. I think it's a little weird here, actually, 100 days of government or 110 days, or I'm not counting it, I'm saying that something here is suddenly threatened by the fact that one part of the law is being postponed, which, as opposed to last year's election, we said was undesirable from our point of view. On the other hand, I have been on the side of a lot of other experts who have argued that this amendment, where everything goes to the Supreme Building Authority, leads to a weakening of solutions such as the protection of public interests and that it is not desirable. [[10.00 hours]] So I wouldn't say that the fact that we're discussing the suspension of one part here has some forceful effect on the fact that in the Czech Republic it was built slowly or that there are few flats. I think that the problem grew here many years before the YES movement arose, I must admit, but in the eight years that YES had the Ministry of Regional Development, the situation has not improved significantly. I'd just like to-- and it's kind of a favorite table that even my friends sometimes show, and that's the speed of the building permit. It is in our common interest that it should be built quickly in the Czech Republic. Nevertheless, I would not operate the Doing Business evaluation study, where it is 157th place, because the World Bank also indicated in October 2021 in this study that there were serious errors in the evaluation, it was not a representative evaluation of the length of the construction, and I could continue to do so. When we look at the map for European countries, the speed or slowness of the building process is given by many factors, such as digitalisation. Even if the Supreme Building Office were to be created beautifully now, the digitization area would not accelerate even an inch. On the contrary, I must say that when I arrived at the Ministry of Regional Development, I found the four basic contracts, which are the basis for the future Portal builder, undersized humanly, in poor condition, and we are trying to save their cases so that we can prosecute their financing from the IROP and from the National Recovery Plan. Otherwise, I must agree with the chairwoman of the Committee Dostálová, but the matters which are against the law remain in that law. The fact that at the moment it will go according to the law that has been amended - we delay the effectiveness of some parts, the ergo hammer applies what applies when it does not pay the efficiency. So I have been in the House for the fifth year so far, and I have seen very commonly that, for example, the various parts of the law that have been passed are then being shifted if, for example, there is not any implementation or technical that these things are gradually starting to happen. I think that the question of the extent to which the authorities in the municipalities will be represented has already been resolved. I preferred some integration at the level of the ORP and the detached workplaces in the municipalities that will ask for this. In the end, there was no agreement on this; indeed, this model was not well accepted by the authorities. Finally, we used the availability statistics submitted by the Ministry of the Interior, where we then discussed what the availability and representativeness of 35 kilometers and beyond is. But I would have pulled it off. I wanted to respond to some things, but they have something to do with the novel in question, and I believe that in a very quick succession, there is already a substantive amendment in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings that all these debates will be conducted at the moment when we discuss the substantive amendment to the construction law. And I believe that even in the near future, issues relating to spatial planning and regulatory plans, because this is another amendment that the proposal tabled by Mrs Dostálová in the past period does not touch ours either, for time reasons, I think there is a lot of buried dog. What can I say in conclusion? I think we've updated the move. Unfortunately, there was no agreement before the end of this year, when we could really cancel the whole race. So now we are working with the fact that we are putting aside some parts of it, and also because perhaps two are being read in these amendments at the moment, so I would also like to ask for a shorter discussion between second and third readings for 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u11	Thank you, I'm registering your proposal. Do I register the priority right of Minister Kupka, rapporteur, also with priority rights? Okay. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to emphasise that, of course, a fundamental debate over a substantive proposal will be in order to address building activities in the Czech Republic, above the substantive amendment of the construction law, which must come and come as soon as possible so that, in the end, not only that there is no delay in the process, but, on the contrary, to prevent all the risks that we have raised here and which are really very important. In fact, if the construction law were to start to apply in the originally approved form, it would undoubtedly endanger a number of very important projects, it would endanger investment activities not only for the state, but also for the regions, cities and municipalities, but also for a number of specific people who plan to build their houses, who plan to build housing complexes and so on. I want to emphasise one thing and respond to the rapporteur's words, which is very difficult for me to hear how the new law should have finally brought about a level playing field for applicants and for the state. Well, as a result, for example, it was the Civil Democratic Party, which, together with its colleagues, brought the fiction of consent and gradually expanded the fiction. In this regard, all other actions will, in my opinion, necessarily be tied to the levelling of conditions for the public and for the state to really measure everyone by the same metro and to keep the state of the term. When you look at the extension of time limits, unfortunately, the previous eight-year period has led to the greatest delay, so those who are now talking about the advantages of the new construction law should also say, if they are not hypocrites, that the biggest fouls in this direction occurred in the past eight-year period, that the biggest delay in small buildings brought a binding opinion from the planning authority, where constructions and their approval were delayed for months and months, even though we pointed out and called for this section to disappear without compensation. And now we hear the new law removing all these serious problems. I'm afraid there's no other way to call it a hypocritical position. And it is fair to say - and here the challenge and at the same time the promise of cooperation is an important positive signal for me - that even the current opposition will be ready to work constructively to really organise a new modified form of the new construction law so that it will not face the need for unanimous resistance from the upper chamber in the future, that it will not conflict with the ideas and needs of cities and municipalities and that it will be able to find a really wider consensus. This is the aim of the work on the factual form of the amendment to the construction law. I consider it important that we go through this phase of delay as quickly as possible and that, above all, we can talk together on a working level above a substantive amendment and find a solution that will be for the Czech Republic - now I would also like to depolitize it - not only on a division between the government coalition and the opposition acceptable, but really to make it a sensible solution for the Czech Republic. Anyway, this is where I see the light at the end of the tunnel. And I'm going to stress one more important thing. If we succeed - and I hope not only in this, but I am ready to participate - to discuss the substantive amendment very quickly, to agree on the basic parameters so that we avoid the risks mentioned and to really prepare conditions for quick construction and for important investment projects in the Czech Republic, not only will there be no delays, but we will, for example, be able to try and process the digital form without which it simply cannot be done. The new process was built on the Portal by the builder and it was clear that by the middle of next year it would not be possible to test the portal and let it into operation even with the best will of all who are working on it. Without the necessary time for testing, it is simply not possible, not only is it not responsible, but it is not even possible. [[10.10 hours]] If we can quickly put together a discussion on the substantive proposal of the amendment, it will mean that in really the same times as it would have been in the previous scenario, we will find adjustments that are important for the Czech Republic. That's supposed to be a common goal. And if the words here are that even the opposition is ready to contribute to this, then I just welcome it and see if the words come into contact with subsequent actions in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u13	Thank you, Minister. I'm registering two priority rights. First, Mrs Dostálová, then Minister Hubáčková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. Just a very quick response to the words of Minister Bartoš. I totally agree. Yesterday was too late. Yes, we all have it in our programs. All the more absurd is that we postpone the construction law by a year. This means that we should all really include a number two, as they say, and really try to bring good building law to the builders as soon as possible. You've been talking about the social housing law, affordable housing, and so on that the YES movement has been at the Ministry of Regional Development for eight years. The Social Housing Act - there was a really sharp disapproval of the municipalities, so the Ministry came up with a subsidy programme to actually implement it quickly. But we have to tell ourselves that apartments have to be built by municipalities. The state gives tools, and these tools are not small, such as a 100% subsidy. So I don't know how much more it would take to build apartments. But I have to agree with what Minister Kupka said. Yes, we went to the Ministry of Regional Development on the way to the novel - the 25th amendment and the road to hell. And that's just to admit, because even if it was meant to be, and it's always paved with good intentions, it was still just a novel. The amendment merged the zoning and construction proceedings, but somebody was looking for someone to plant the intention in the territory. And I completely agree that the path of the zoning authorities was very inappropriately chosen because, paradoxically, the amendment produced an additional stamp. And that was precisely the impulse for us to say: No further amendment, must come essentially completely on the green meadow and really prepare the reform of building law and related dozens of building regulations or component laws, which, of course, govern the building law itself. As far as Minister Bartoš is concerned, I am very happy for the words that say that he will take almost everything but the institutional model from the construction law. I'm really going to have it carved into the stone you said today, because the fact that the novel is already on the air - and we all know that it's a few steps back - so I would really like us to really communicate. You know very well that several letters have come to the Chamber of Deputies from professional unions complaining that no one is communicating with them. It's all in the mail. So here I say again, the opposition is ready to cooperate constructively. If, of course, the most elegant elements of the new construction law are preserved even in the substantive amendment, we will certainly cooperate. We are aware of the results of the elections, that is, we will look for a way through the municipalities, but at the same time we will want to ensure that the official is represented, so that time-limits can be enforced, so that measures can be taken against the inactivity of the authorities, so that officials can act over one project documentation, and not send it back to each other. Maybe it's the same environmental statement - it's the fainting thing that's going to happen to me, because the office that's going to issue it is going to be waiting again for partial permission from the others. That's definitely not the way to go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u15	Thank you. Now, Minister Hubáčková with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u16	Thank you. Have a nice day. For the reasons that have already been raised here, I will stress very briefly only possible two, why we are putting forward the delay, because the current amendment actually introduces a reform of the construction administration and a change in the public administration itself. And I would like to point out that we are actually putting the first instance in the construction process at the regional level. This means that we are completely moving away from the citizen, although we are telling him that he will have a local workplace and that he will ask questions at the local workplace, but at the same time the various bodies, especially environmental protection, are also disappearing, which are combined at regional level into regional level. I also consider this to be a bit of a resignation to the public interests and the interests of the protection of self-government and their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u17	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Ivan Bartoš. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u18	I don't like it when you read an individual e-mail from someone in plenary or when you use the arguments "everyone says". If I were specific, I am being bombarded in text messages by lawyers who participated in the preparation of the first amendment, the one that Mr Kolovratník finally brought in, where the whole debate that was conducted with the partners eventually fell under the table, because the Ministry of Local Development, Mrs Dostálová through Mr Kolovratník's proposal, returned to the first module: It will be the Supreme Building Office, we will change the system of construction offices and bye. The debate, which took place two years between a substantive proposal and what then came to the House, which was a kind of hybrid, ended with the original substantive proposal, so it took time and energy for a lot of people, partners from the region, towns and villages of the Czech Republic not to actually come out of this meeting. Who else is texting me? Of course, the representatives of developers write to me, whether combined in some association, again the people for whom the standard introduced, the recodification of building law, really meant probably easier passage through the system. On the other hand, I could quote architects, landlords, simply people who deal with urban development of the city, and I could actually operate that most people who write to me say that the Supreme Building Office must not arise, that this is wrong, that there has been a weakening of the protection of the public interest and that we should focus on the planning documentation and on the role of, for example, self-government and status, which we promised we would be. After all, we picked up where it was before in the zoning debate. We are talking to both the large municipalities and the Statute and the small municipalities, how to strengthen the planning part of the construction process, how to strengthen regulatory plans. [[Time.]] But please, let's not use "all know" and "experts write" because we each rely on a different group, which at the moment also wants to apply its interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u19	Time, Minister. Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from the rapporteur. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u20	Thank you so much. I'll be very brief. Only through you, Mr Vice-President, to Minister Hubáčková. That's an absolute misunderstanding. You really need to read those laws. We simply wanted a unified system of state building administration based in regional cities and with territorial workplaces wherever the construction office is. What advantage does the territorial workplace have over a separate construction office? Well, if an official at a local office gets sick, he can be represented by any other official. If you get sick in a small village with a single-headed building office today, what happens? Post the "Closed for Disease" sign. Well, that's the big difference. But, Minister, through Mr President, I did not say that they were writing to me, but that they are writing to all of us Members and that we all have it in the mail - the complaint that you are not communicating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u21	Thank you. At present, I do not have any application with priority rights or any factual comment, and we will therefore proceed to the duly entered into the general debate. Mr Martin Kolovratník will be the first to speak and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u22	Hello, good morning. I don't know, we're probably talking in different languages about the same things, but in different languages. I was therefore an optimist, and I am beginning to be a pessimist, that, Mr Minister, through Mr President, we simply will not find this speech that we disagree. You just said, "I don't like it when e-mails are quoted when correspondence is quoted." I'm being written by other people, but what you mentioned as an illustration example really impressed me - architects, representatives of Prague's IPR, big cities, they write and communicate with us and communicate with us a year ago, so here you have illustrated something that we want to solve too. And yes, four city artifacts, strengthening self-government in the role of territorial planning. After all, these were the amendments that we had prepared here, which, remember the long procedure last May, we tried to push through here, to vote. [[10.20 hours]] And I've already said that at the first reading, unfortunately it was probably influenced by the nervous political, the final, the complexity of the entire recodification, and it's good that this is sounding. It wasn't an amendment, but it was really a recodification of the whole system, and there weren't enough votes. But you see, that's not an argument for you against us or for us against you, that's the thing we can agree on. But there's another thing about that. We repeat patiently again and say, please don't do it, don't destroy the recodification, don't destroy the system as set up. You were talking about the poll, you did a bit of relativizing it, so I'm gonna take the liberty of making it clear to the audience here and explain it a little bit. The poll has two rounds. In the first round, there's a group of nominees, a group of experts who choose from those legal standards. There are dozens of them - twenty, twenty-five people. And now beware, there is a Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court, there are representatives of the Union of Towns and Communities, there is a representative of Transparency International, economic journalists, lawyers. These are not - sometimes I hear that from your side - property lobbyists or the Chamber of Commerce. There are also representatives of individual players not only on the construction market but generally in the public administration. They chose from 533 standards. 533 standards came out last year in the Collection of Laws and they chose five finalists. After all, I think that there is a certain impulse, a certain example of the fact that I think - and I repeat - the recodification, how we set it, how we finally - and I will underline it - 106 votes accepted here in the House that it is good. Even if she's in fifth place, I think it's a big success and a big, strong message for you to stay away from this disassembly, for God's sake. And then she was already a survey - 67 percent, O.K., I'll also be correct. I don't know the exact numbers of the votes, if they were low hundreds or thousands of votes, and it doesn't matter, let's not stick around. At the beginning of my performance, I want to patiently warn you not to go into the path that you are proposing here. I have prepared, and I will talk about it now in the general debate, an amendment which I will, of course, then apply to. When we identified it, as you described it here, that this is an extension amendment, that you're pushing the recodification from the next 1st of July 2023 a year further, so - and I don't know if you deliberately, by mistake or in speed - you forgot anything. You forgot that last year it was two prints, and the recodifications really were two related prints - on the one hand, a whole new building law - I just have to say it, explain it and repeat it again - and the other 1009 was a change of more than fifty other laws. You guys are now in time with what we're discussing here, twitching that thousand eight, press 1008, a year, but you haven't done anything at all with the others. And I'm glad to see that he's here and listening to you or your political colleague and a colleague from the government, Minister Michal Šalomoun. He wrote it, the LRV wrote it in her opinion on this amendment that there is a threat of interpretation confusion, that from 1 July 2023 there are problems, that building permits will not be issued or all will be contested. Officials won't know what to work with. I noticed somewhere in those media shows that you have an answer to that. After all, you can say for yourself in a little while: After all, this is not the big or substantive amendment, it is the fold-out one year and we will do it in a year, we will make it in a year and on July 1, 2023 we will have also made changes to the follow-up laws. But please, Minister, if we heard those words last December, if what you said to your colleagues in the election campaign was true: we're gonna change it, we're gonna be ready, we're gonna have it all figured out, so I'm gonna O O.K., so you got a year, a year and a half, but now we're in May 2022. You can do it, well, a year and a while, but it's summer before us, there are problems that will get us stuck here, whatever the controversial points from next week, so the problems around Ukraine, let's believe that maybe no more problems around the covid. It is really threatening, not that the proposed recodification will stop the entire construction process in the Czech Republic and, for example, including infrastructure structures related to the transport resort, but that this change of yours, this delaying of your law will be what it stops. And maybe we could gloat with Klára Dostálová and colleagues. So we lighten up here, we gave you a diploma, we made fun of it, and we let him load up - I'm in the House's attic - his mouth, and he takes a bath in it. But we don't want it, it's not in our interest to catch you here in a year and a half, what a big mistake you've made. So here in my first performance, I'm gonna give room to other colleagues, and I'm really warning you again, I refer to the words of Michal Šalomoun, I refer to the statement of attorney Pavel Černý of the company Frank Bold Advocates. Again, no developers, no closets. Pavel Černý says: Changing the entire law is wrong. On the eve of the vote, we fear that people, companies, state investors, regions, municipalities will not know where to go for building permits, and in practice this amendment can cause great confusion. Please, please, remember this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u24	I'd only react. I have in no way reacted to nominations for those laws, and I have also mentioned that we have received awards, such as the right of a citizen to digital service, or in the last parliamentary term our representatives and representatives of the government for digital technical maps. I only said that when - and I operate with the result of 67 percent of the voters - it was difficult to cover 67 percent of the population, which may have been said here by Mrs Klára Dostálová. In fact, I don't understand where this slightly schizophrenic concept arises. Just before a substantive amendment is in force, which we are prosecuting - and the proposals you mentioned are recorded in parallel at eKLEP, there is not only the spinal law, the law of construction, but also the laws of change are prepared - so in that moment people will just walk where they were used to, building permits to serve where they are accustomed at the moment. And even with a view of digitalization and the fact that the Supreme Building Authority was only supposed to be coming in and ready this year, nothing would have changed in this year either. So if I wanted to take a look, the only difference is with the Special Building Authority where the buildings are reserved. It is based on the timetable, because we left its start, but the factual change that you said would be brought, there it will be a classic discussion of the law, a substantive amendment, where the laws are also implemented. So I think it's an artificially aroused fear that suddenly this guy finds out that I have a building permit here, and I have no idea where to go... So this year, where he was used to, and subsequently after a change in the structure of the building offices applied to the extent of availability, this man, more or less 90 percent of the people, not all the people, but 90 percent of the people who decide to build something happen to the office where they were used to. So I think this is some kind of false dilemma that is being used in public space to present the whole thing as a mess, which is definitely not a mess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now appear, and Mr Robert Stržínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I have just seen Minister Šalomoun leaving, for whom I have just prepared my speech. All this time I thought he was here and that I would finally hear the answers I hadn't had so far. I'm sure you remember that I've already stepped up once and suggested a procedural change here just to the presence of the Minister, and now he's escaped again, so I hope he'll at least come back to me. [[10.30 hours]] So one of the problems is that day 1. 8. 2021 Act No. 284/2021 Coll., of 13 July 2021 amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Construction Act. The validity came into force 29. 7. 2021, the efficiency is specifically distributed partly as at 1. 8. 2021, partly as at 1. 1. 2022 and partly 1. 7. 2023. It is a so-called amending or accompanying law, which was accompanied by a new building law in the legislative process. [[Minister Solomon is coming to the hall.]] Thank you. The accompanying law is therefore valid and a large part of its provisions are effective. He's changing 58 other laws. In addition to the fact that you intend to divide the construction law itself from the point of view of efficiency in two, when you postpone the modification for general buildings and allow the modification of reserved buildings to take effect, you are putting another problem into your change law. Opinion of the President of the Government Legislative Council of 31. 1. 2022 specifically states that - I quote: "The proposed specific design divided efficiency, respectively, by the applicability of Act No. 283/2021 Coll., the Construction Act, contained in the proposed provision of Section 334a, may lead to practical problems, since the assessment of which parts of the Act will be applicable in relation to which types of buildings, especially in the case of sets of buildings, by virtue of the related constructions, and in what time period, will probably be quite difficult. The proposed substantive solution is possible and is a question of the government's political decision on what solution to the initiation of the new construction law will choose, but it is pointed out from the perspective of legislation that more practical and more understandable for addressees of legislation and would be easier to postpone the effectiveness of the new construction law as a whole, including Act No. 284/2021 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law and which the proposed amendment does not affect at all, and subsequently in the meantime resolve the form of a new modification of the construction law complexly. The proposal envisages partially delaying the effectiveness of the construction law, but does not contain the current postponement of the effectiveness of the so-called accompanying law, which is Act No. 284/2021 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Construction Act. In the case of the chosen material solution and given the complexity of the so-called accompanying law, it would not be possible to only partially postpone its effectiveness. It would therefore be necessary to amend the proposed § 334a para. 3 sentences first to understand that it would apply to the related law after 1 July 2023, because the opposite interpretation would lead to unsolvable application problems after that date." End of quote. In addition, this opinion has been replaced by a proper legislative process. The President of the Government's Legislative Council has granted an exception to himself, and this House press has not been discussed by the Commission or at the plenary of the Government's Legislative Council, although it has been declared by the Government and personally by Mr Šalomoun publicly and in the media that all procedures will be properly followed. To sum up, in fact, the previous government was very demoted for this, that there were no proper legislative processes, even though I personally think that there were proper legislative processes, that is to say, an internal commentary, interresorative, of course, the Government Legislative Council, before the Committee of the Legislative Council of the Government. And this press has bypassed all of this, and the Minister has granted himself an exception. As of day 1. 1. 2022 The law established a whole new system of state building administration. According to the previous provisions on the new construction law § 312 to 315 is to be applied gradually, and this is not. The explanatory memorandum even states that you aim to abolish or partially delay the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and especially the regional construction offices. Your duty, however, is to comply with the law and proceed in accordance with it. We are legislators, and who should obey the laws first than we who accept them? So there can't be a flagrant violation of the law. If the law requires something, it must take place, so you should have done it already. First, establish the Supreme Building Office, second, select the President of the Supreme Building Office. The chairman should have submitted a systemization. You were supposed to claim a budget that, of course, you claimed, but there's zero. None of it went on or on. Instead, you come up with a retroactive proposal. How will you defend retroactivity? That it's common practice? That it only concerns the transitional provisions of the law? That it's retroactivity, but in favour of the recipients of the standard? That this is an unusual legislative technique, but that, in principle, there is still no decision by the Constitutional Court to prohibit it? I wonder what's going to happen to officials who have since 1. 7. 2023 to go to regional construction offices. Where will they go? What will become of them legally? What's gonna happen? So I would like answers, or I would ask, through the President, for answers to my questions. And, of course, I'd be happy to engage in another discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u27	Thank you, Madame. Good morning, colleagues, colleagues. We are continuing to discuss the amendment to the Construction Act and I have here an application for a factual comment by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. No? I'm erasing. And now, with a proper application, Mr. MP... Yes, with priority rights, the Minister is reporting. Please take your word for it, and Mr. Robert Stržínek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u28	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. A few notes on that. As far as the exception I have granted here from this amendment is concerned, in principle, it is my authority to decide what legislative process each bill will be issued. Of course, I'm not processing it myself, it's being processed by the Department of Government legislation, and the municipal issue is that if nothing new is being prepared or in principle not in a hurry - and nothing new was being prepared here, there was only suspension of the effects, and I can quote you here from the background material that I got there. I quote: "The request is justified by the fact that, in view of the commitment set out in the Government's programming declaration, a brief amendment of a formal nature needs to be adapted to the gradual acquisition of the effectiveness of the construction law so that there is a partial delay in the implementation of the state construction administration until the entire institutional system of the construction administration is finally and legally anchored." So I still read the application, I thought it was appropriate to grant this exception. I believe that today, and in principle, it is nothing more than a shift in efficiency. And if I said in that opinion that there could be interpretation problems because of the dual model - of course they can. However, our legal order is not entirely clear and everyone who works with it is, as it were, hardened in its interpretation, in order to get out of the problematic situations in some way. Perhaps this amendment will bring some problems, but I believe that these too will be able to be overcome in an interpretational way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u29	Thank you, Minister. Now I have a point of fact here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u30	I believe I can fit into a factual note. It is not true that Law No. 284/2021 became largely effective. Most of the law is only valid, not effective. However, yes, the amendment of laws which are meant by the amendment law, and you mentioned them, has been resolved with the Ministry of the Environment by submitting a uniform environmental binding opinion and, in the context of a substantive amendment, are read. I've already responded to that, Mr. Kolovratník. The laws of execution are also read. The exception was not given by Minister Šalomoun to himself, he gave it to the Ministry of Regional Development as a petitioner, so he could only give an exception to himself if he himself was referring, which I do not think is. If YES had not blocked the original law - I was talking about it at the beginning of my opening speech - which we had already submitted as Members of the newly elected Chamber of Deputies, it could have been resolved and we did not have to deal with it now. The proposal, which would impose the law as a whole, which we proposed as members of the opposition, now a government coalition, was simply not discussed in 2021, not blocked by our guilt. Zero in the NSÚ budget was claimed by the previous government, there was only created places at the Ministry of Regional Development in so-called systemization. There's no retroactivity. Retroactivity means the application of the legal standard backwards, i.e. until the time before the adoption of the law. The law doesn't regulate anything like that. I wonder what the retroactivity is. It seems a little strange to me, because President Dostálová says not to postpone in any way, and Mrs Peštová, at least if I understood correctly, proposes to postpone the law as a whole. Once again, there's no retroactivity in the law. What we do, we delay things that work for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u31	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mr Stržínek for patience with a factual remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u32	Thank you again for the floor. So you didn't answer almost any of the questions I asked, except for the efficiency. In any case, I did the legislation at the Ministry, so if anything has become effective, I can't present the amendment to the law by asking for a re-enforcement when the law has already taken effect. It just can't be, that's the retroactivity I was talking about. I didn't say I wanted to postpone the law as a whole, that's not what I said. I've only evaluated here, and if you don't mind, I'll remind you once more: the validity came into force. 7. 2021, the efficiency is specifically distributed into three - 1. 8. 2022, partly to 1. 1. 2022, it's already up, and it's partly up to 1. 7. 2023, and we're already talking about these employees going somewhere that's been going since that one. 1. 2022 gradually formed, okay? We've got April, we've got May in a while, nothing's coming up, it's already taken effect, so my point is, you guys came up with a law amendment, and you're asking that you want to move something that's already been done. That's the problem. And I would like to have the Minister of Law explain this to me, Minister Šalomoun, to comment on this, because these are the things that make it difficult for me to understand if there is anything new in that law, if that is the way to put it. I think it's just total nonsense that it can't be done, that it's the retroactivity, but I'm sure he'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u33	Thank you. Mr Robert Stržínek is now duly registered, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u34	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, allow me only briefly to proceed to the planned postponement of the new construction law. The new building law, from my perspective, is the result of a long process and undoubtedly cruel compromises. It is a chance that complex and often contradictory cases can be achieved successfully in real time. If the current coalition cancels or postpones it, we will have more months and perhaps more years of hopping on the spot, years when anything will be getting harder and harder, all at a time when the prices of building materials fly skyrocketingly up almost every day. Let me just take a short look at the planned transfer of construction offices outside the municipal authorities, outside, if you wish, the municipalities with extended scope. This separation is part of the new construction law. And for me, if there is such a model, I welcome it as mayor and take it all ten. Why? The answer is very simple. Millions, often tens of millions of crowns, are paid annually for the performance of the public administration. By simple calculation, it can be determined that the supplement of the cities to the specific sub-transferred scope, i.e. the performance of the state administration in the area falling under the construction office, amounts to CZK million per year as well. So if there is an entity, in this case, a state that will take the building authorities under its wing and fully manage and pay for their operation, I will be only happy as mayor, because in the end the city will save considerable money and the whole system and the process will be greatly simplified. Of course, this separation of the construction offices from the cities that have carried out this agenda for the state must take place in a coordinated and managed manner in order to maintain the maximum availability of this service for citizens. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will now prepare, yes, I see him. Robert králíček will follow. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, the recodification of public building law, which was dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, was the response to inefficiency and infunction, complexity and long-termness of the system, which has been tolerated and made possible for many years. In order to remove its biggest problems and vices, it was necessary to really simplify extremely complex authorisation processes while maintaining the necessary level of protection of all rights and public interests, i.e. a fundamental change of the entire building law. In addition to changes in procedural and material regulations, the overall institutional reform at central and territorial level, including also fundamental changes in the organisation of the state administration concerned, as well as the revision of the existing mixed model for the performance of the state administration in the construction sector, was also necessary to ensure the necessary efficiency, predictability and speed of performance of the state administration. The new public building law, and it was intended from the outset, is clearly simple, understandable, applicable, enforceable and also enforced. At the same time, the new legislation clearly defines the legal responsibility of actors throughout the process of territorial governance. What situation did this put us in? Constructions are permitted by 714 municipal construction offices, 606 special construction offices, 4 military construction offices, 9 mining and 4 special. The builder must abide by 85 laws. According to 50 laws, the authorities concerned must provide for statements on construction, according to 20 other laws, to obtain additional documents such as proof of energy performance, certificates, separate permits, noise studies, radon survey, energy assessment and more and more. In addition, 15 other regulations must be followed, laying down the requirements under which the designer must proceed. Moreover, they are broken in various laws. The territorial decision contains 193 pages, the operative part contained on 69 pages and the reasons on 124 pages. Up to 140 comments are needed for him. Up to 130 subjects can comment on it. [[10.50 hours]] This has all been changed in recent years. Not quickly, because the process has been going on for six years, not secretly, but very transparently and openly. Perhaps no other law has passed such a public and professional assessment. The changes it brings concern five groups of entities: citizens, authorities, cities and municipalities, investors and the state. What does a citizen get anyway? Clear rules, because officials will have to use a uniform methodology for building authorisation. Minimum stamps, cancellation of the review, limited number of proceedings, building permits within 60 days, less bureaucracy and digitalisation of information on the state of his application. What are they against in the current government coalition? Against simplification, transparency, against clear conditions for all, clear rules, that is, against what everyone is calling for. The whole process, as is set up, will be transparent, public, online, with digital footprint, with the possibility of public control. This is a crucial moment in the fight against corruption in an area that has so far bloomed, and almost everyone is complaining about it, but they have not done anything about it. And now they're criticizing whoever wants to do something about it. This is the real digitization, not the electronization that Mr Bartoš and the new government are talking about. Moreover, without systemic structural change, no digitization will actually ever happen. The reduction of corruption potential will be ensured through the professionalisation of civil servants of the construction offices, with which they would go hand in hand to increase their salaries and eliminate pay irregularities as a result of budgetary changes. The reduction of corruption potential will also occur due to the elimination of the risks of bias and concentration of assessment of all aspects of construction and the impact of projects within a single decision prepared by a competent team of qualified officials. I would still have a lot of comments on this, but I have decided not to apply everyone, and I will only make you happy with this short performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert králíček will now appear, Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u38	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Madam President, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members. I was a little provoked by yesterday's discussion with my colleague Michálek, who said nothing had been done in digitalisation. So I was thinking maybe we could do it again. On the other hand, I would like to appreciate today's performance by Minister Kupka. I liked him, and I remembered his promise to communicate with the opposition. I found it inspiring for other ministers, too, and I firmly believe that other ministers will also start communicating with us, perhaps even more in the area of digitalisation. So I can run the digitization and not stall. I confess that I made a few small notes, for I am over 45 years old and my memory is not so good. But to do things. As far as the digitization of the building process is concerned - and I want to be factual, not conflicting today, so I hope I will not provoke the Minister to make some long remarks. Just to get started, then. As far as digitization is concerned, in accordance with the law - I'm sorry, I have to read it, because I really don't remember the numbers from my head - No. 183/2006 Sb., on zoning and construction regulations as amended, the Ministry of Regional Development launched the preparation of a project aimed at building a digital system which will facilitate the process of building proceedings for all parties by enabling the entire process of building proceedings, including the submission of necessary documents to be carried out electronically. This means that we will not really have to go around the authorities with papers, but everything can be done through the Internet as mentioned yesterday by the coalition and the opposition. And that is that you can already see at that first point that in the last parliamentary term, some things - even though they have not been completed, because they will not be effective until this parliamentary term or, respectively, they have become - have been prepared. The basis of the project of digitization of building management and planning was introduced by the amendment of the Law on Landscape and Construction Law, implemented by Act No. 47/2020 Coll., where the full incorporation of the digitalisation of the building process into legislation is implemented through the construction law, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies last year. The objective of the project is to digitize building management and planning to build an efficient and functional digital system that will facilitate, as I mentioned, the process for all participants in the construction process. What is important to say is that most of the projected financial projects for the digitisation of building management and planning will be financed from European Union funds, and this is important. Follow-up implementation of the recodification of construction law implies financing from the new Facility for Reconstruction and Resistance. So what's the status? Currently, implementation works are under way in the field of digitization of building management and spatial planning. It was being prepared and I believe that there are already several public procurements for the acquisition of an IT system that will allow the entire process of construction and planning to be digitised to the maximum extent. Quite expected, and now perhaps the Minister will correct me or complete me, several large IT orders. I suspect that MMR five public contracts and the Czech office of survey and cadastral one public contract, which was supposed to be announced last year. But I can be wrong, as I say. Perhaps it will be good if the Minister has the current data to correct me. As I said, I would like to repeat the digitization, so that it is clear who and how he worked in the last parliamentary term, that it was not just one political party, but there were more. So the construction management and planning digitization project consists of the following information systems: Integrating Platform of Building Management and Construction Portal, Information System of Recording of Territorial and Building Management and Other Procedures, Information System of Recording of Electronic Documentation, National Geoportal of Territorial Planning, Information System of Building Management and Information System of Digital Map of Public Administration. It is in the Czech office of survey and cadastral. Some parts of the digitization of building management and planning are already in the implementation phase. Everything should be implemented in such a way that the deadline is met, I believe on 1 July 2023, when the system of digitization of the construction process is to be prepared. [[11.00 hours]] For those of you who are not so informed in detail, I took the liberty of preparing a short description of the individual information systems, for example, to clarify what it contains and how it is prepared for us not to evaluate digitalisation according to one example, as it was yesterday. Thus the Integration Platform of the Building Management and the Construction Portal. It is a central information system that ensures the integration of individual components as well as the involvement of existing public administration information systems, whether centrally operated, such as the Portal of a Citizen, or locally at construction offices, which are the agenda information systems of the building offices. In addition to the integration function, several subsystems will work within this information system. The builder's portal is a basic communication platform, which I'm sure we can agree on. It is a basic communication platform for the builder and the public involved, which describes the individual components of the proposed solution to the functional unit, which will enable the acceleration and efficiency of all partial activities and processes in the area of the building agenda. In addition, the information system for the registration of territorial and building procedures and other procedures. This system is a single central record of the data on the ongoing authorisation procedures of the building offices, the actions carried out by them, both by the participants and by the administrative authority and the decisions and measures taken, and the electronic documentation records information system. This system will serve to store project and similar documentation in electronic form, both in PDF format and in machine-readable format, which will allow the storage of this information, which is important, in the BIM standard. Thanks to the registration, the construction company will gain space for storing the project documentation already at the preparatory phase of the construction project. The electronic versions of the project documentation will also be usable in other construction modifications. When doing the works through the Builder's Portal, instead of adding electronic project documentation to this document, it can be referred to, which, in turn, significantly simplifies the process. Another information system is the spatial planning system and the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning. In this system, there will be one place and one data standard, which is very important, published outputs from and access to the territorial planning activities of the zoning authorities. At the same time, this system will serve to provide spatial data on land use planning in accordance with the requirements of the INSPIRE Directive and other territorial development related data. And the last is the Information System of the Building Procedure, which will serve for the work of civil servants at the Building Offices, who will deal with the normal agenda of the Building Procedure in this system. This system will be linked to other systems of digitization of building management and planning so as to enable the work of all civil servants in the field of building management to be simplified and data will be transferred from the procedures already started by June 2023 from existing agenda systems. Furthermore, a council was set up at the Ministry of Regional Development for the digitalisation of building procedures to ensure the awareness of Stakeholders and on the course of the project digitization of building procedures, providing space for expert discussion over the course of the whole project and, last but not least, for transparency - so much known word from programmes of some political parties. The members of the Committee on Digitisation of Building Management and Urban Planning are experts from the Ministry for Regional Development, as well as other independent experts and, where appropriate, representatives of some political parties. You can see that this quite possibly long speech, which might even bore you a little bit, is due to the fact that in the area of digitization only, only in this case, it has done quite a lot in the last four years. So it is not the credit of one political party, but I think that we have worked across the board during the last parliamentary term for digitization, and I firmly believe that, on the basis of the appeal of Minister Kupka, who I appreciate, this will also be the case in this year's parliamentary term, or this. Thank you for your attention and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u39	Thank you, Member, and now President Radim Fiala will speak with priority rights and prepare Mr Jiří Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment on the construction law and on what is actually happening in the Chamber of Deputies around the construction law. I consider this to be an example of the incompetence of this five-calice government, and the incompetence is the situation of the construction law. I will, of course, explain this immediately, and I will try to argue with you and prove that this is the case. As is customary for this government, various interests play a role here, apart from the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. The government majority here pushed through the annual delay of the already approved amendment to the construction law, which would finally bring a system and order into the construction proceedings and would be a fundamental acceleration of the whole process with positive consequences for citizens, in the form of at least somewhere decline in real estate prices and, for example, in Prague and in large cities to stop the huge increase in real estate prices, flats that we have seen recently. I don't know if you know this, but over the last five years, for example, housing and real estate prices have gone up 76 percent. Those are incredible numbers. People just don't have a place to live, and we don't give young people any room to think about their own housing, to think that, especially today, when inflation is growing and the central bank is reacting to it by increasing mortgage interest, it is not possible for young people to take mortgages on apartments. First of all, they don't have payments because interest amounts to 6, 7 percent and, of course, the price of flats is rising, so even if they make a commitment to repay it for the rest of their lives, they can't get it. And I think it's our duty to do something about this so that young people can see a future, some way to get their own housing, because if we can't do it, we suck, and I think that every political representation of every country in the world should give young people the best possible future. The law was certainly not ideal. Certain individualities could be dealt with continuously by partial minor amendments. But his annual delay was the worst thing that could have happened. It means uncertainty, chaos in the state administration, further deterioration in the situation. It also means disrespect for the law, which, in my view, is typical of this government, while the Czech Republic has been leading Europe-wide rankings since last year at the rate of property growth, especially apartments whose price has increased by more than a fifth in the last year and prices have increased in the last five years, according to Eurostat data - and I have already said this - about an incredible 76 percent. [[11.10 hours]] The main reason for this is the undeniable fact that due to the inappropriate legislative and organizational state and framework it is only very slow to build and the process is extremely complex and costly. This was to change and improve the new construction law adopted last year and was to apply in its entirety from July next year, that is to say in 2023. Both the professional and lay public were already prepared for these systemic changes, the implementation was to be gradually underway so that the process would be smooth especially for workers of construction offices, builders and the public. But the new government throws everything into the basket and instead of careful de facto progress and improving things comes with a revolutionary solution, as is typical of the Pirate Party, which unfortunately runs the Gesture Ministry for Local Development. The new, i.e. the deferred construction law was carefully prepared for about five years and from the ground up changed the system of building authorisation. Construction authorities should have moved from the municipalities to the state, some of the smallest ones should have disappeared. So it is not true that there will be a new office where new 13 000 people, a mega-office, as the government tells us, as Minister Kupka told us, it is nonsense - simply the construction offices that are already under the municipalities today would change their business card and there would be a state building office. Most of these people would stay, those who want to leave would leave, some new ones would come, so the mega-office on paper would, yes, people would stay the same, there would be no new bureaucracy. The new, that is, the deferred construction law - I have already said - prepared it thoroughly for about five years. In addition, the Supreme Building Office was to be established and then a special office for line infrastructure buildings such as motorways or railways. The permit should have been requested electronically and the authorities should have been given fixed time limits by which they had to decide on the construction permit. That means no one could have taken your request, stuck it in a drawer, left it lying there for a year or two as it was in the past, but it had to be decided within a certain period, and if it hadn't been decided, the permit was valid. Government procedure brings incredible confusion to the whole process, even legal. For example, none of the more than 50 other follow-up legislation, which has been substantially amended along with the new construction law, is regulated. It has to do with the so-called change law. In practice, there may be various paradoxical situations with possible consequences in the form of litigation with considerable financial implications for the state and taxpayers. This risk was also highlighted by the Government Legislative Council led by pirate nominee Michal Šalomoun, which means that the Government Legislative Council itself draws attention to the fact that this may be a problem for the future and these disputes may cost the Czech Republic considerable money. And above all, this government procedure is making it even worse, which means the length of time for which the Čech are waiting and will wait for a building permit in the future. It's one of the longest in the world, and it's getting longer and longer. What does that mean? Real estate prices will rise again because demand will be far, far, far away, then long nothing and once again far beyond the supply of real estate and flats. In the world's leaderboards of the speed of construction, we are constantly moving between 155th and 160th places, there are many developing African states ahead. While the Dán wait for a building permit on average for about ten weeks, the Čech averaged over eight months. No wonder, instead of one general permit, one application is now necessary to start the construction, among other things - and now it reminds me of the classic comedy Alone by the woods, where was the bricklayer who sat in a wheelchair and began to calculate what was needed for such a construction. I've got it here, too. So you need, for example, the approval of the neighbors with construction, the notification of the construction, the local survey, the approval of the municipality with construction, the coordinated binding opinion of the departments concerned of the relevant municipal or municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, the opinion of the sanitary service, the opinion of the road administration on possible excavation of public communications, the opinion of the civil engineering network managers, electricity, gas, water supply, telephone, data networks and so on according to local conditions, the possibility of connection and protection of networks in construction works and land use and other opinions according to the will of the building office or local conditions. The authorities and organisations concerned can also become the water catchment management, the army, the MERO pipeline manager, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, archaeologists and many other entities. This was to break last year's passed law, and the government is deliberately prolonging this unacceptable state. The chaos and unsystematicness of the government's approach to the construction law also demonstrates that, for example, the prominent representative of the STAN movement, the Liberec Governor Půta, says that the amendment of the construction law is at least premature in the form proposed by the Ministry. It's kind of a diplomatic "no" to this bill because it's his own party. "The planned amendment of the construction law is very premature in the current proposed form, when digitalisation is not yet ready. We therefore appeal to the Government and the Members of Parliament to reconsider the bill," said President Půta, among other things. So basically, even from their own ranks, people who know they're going to work with it in the next few years, and they know it's going to cause them big problems, say that the government shouldn't behave like that and that it should reconsider its proposal. It is indeed an incomprehensible, arrogant and arbitrary process of government and Bartošův's ministry, which gambles with the confidence and patience of citizens, is insensitive to the relevant civil servants and officials, to all participants in the building proceedings. Such complex legislation, which has been in existence for five years, cannot be changed and recast in the order of units of months. Is Minister Bartoš willing to take responsibility for all the negative effects of this procedure, including the considerable financial impact? And I'm asking you this, and he's saying yes, so I'm glad he's taking it that way, and then he's gonna take responsibility so that we know who to ask when the lawsuits and other things happen here and the extension of the building process. [[He's turning towards Minister Bartoš.]] But also real, Minister, not just verbal. The result will be a continuation of the situation, where we will continue as the Czech Republic to be among the world's 40 worst countries in terms of the length of the construction process according to World Bank statistics. I have, of course, the study that Minister Bartoš told us not to take very seriously, it is a report, the current report by Doing Business for 2020. In the chapter on the complexity of obtaining a building permit, when even the Czech Republic dropped one rung year on year - I said 156., so today we are 157th place right behind Moldova, just before Honduras. Worse than in the Czech Republic, building permits can only be obtained in a few countries in the world, most of them are so-called fallen, broken states - I think that is a tragedy. The World Bank in the Czech Republic has not seen any improvement in the process of approving new buildings in recent years. The acquisition of a building permit according to its analysis still takes the Czech authorities incredible 246 days, which is just like in authoritarian Uzbekistan. Only one day must builders wait in this respect for the famous Bangladesh. [[for more]] This is, with former Minister Klára Dostálová, our motto Bangladesh, and I think that the bill from the five-calice workshop, which shifts the already approved construction law that could have changed it, we can call it Bangladesh, because that's where the bill sends us back, and it's nothing but Bangladesh. Looking at the last Cambodian with the extreme 652 days isn't gonna make us feel any better. In fact, there are only twenty worse countries between us and this last rungs. [[11.20 hours]] And thanks to this government, it doesn't have to be final because we're still falling down. Just half as fast as in the Czech Republic, in 123 days, all necessary permits will be obtained by investors in the Vanuatu Islands, 122 days must wait in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and two days longer they will wait in Mali. The average 27,5 days of the premier - South Korea - appear to be a complete science fiction from the Czech perspective. Even more unflattering is statistics showing how many official communications procedures with a third party, such as the state authority, a builder must undergo. The Czech Republic with 21 operations belongs to the 12th place from the end, when it reached it last time the last Moldavia, which canceled seven necessary procedures since last year. You don't want to read, and you don't want to listen. Now only five official acts separate us from the last Tajikistan. The seven procedures of the first Marshall Islands and Denmark are a dream that the approved amendment could at least bring us closer to last year. Again, I'm not saying that the law we passed a year ago is perfect, but he could have moved us back to a far better place and we could have kept working on it. It's not the end of the line. The House, social life, construction, it's all an organism that works every day, and it needs to be moved towards better results. But the delays, I don't think they're going anywhere. The five-police government and the pirát are clearly rejecting this and doing everything they can to prevent it from happening, and the World Bank is only assessing construction legislation and is thus based on the legal deadlines applicable to the authorisation of warehouse premises in the capital. If she took into account residential construction, we'd be even worse off. It is calculated that only the so-called government authorities concerned, from which we need a statement with construction intent, are up to six dozen incredible projects. As a rule, the approval process of residential housing has been going on for years. Unfortunately, projects allowed for five or more years are no exception. And the worst result? A steep increase in housing prices and the availability of own housing for large groups of citizens, especially young working families. That's what I was talking about at the beginning, giving young people no hope, no future, that they could have their own place. Then they're afraid to have children, we're losing our vitality, and it's all connected to everything. They're connected containers. [[Noise in the hall.]] Prices of building materials are rising, banks are raising interest rates, and since April, the adepts for housing loan must compose 20 percent of the property price so-called wood. As a result, more and more people have to rely on rental housing. But beware, even his offer is not bottomless, and therefore after a few years of moderate increase in rent comes his jump growth. Moreover, apartments to rent will be increasingly, less and less. For example, according to RealityMIX.cz statistics In March, average rents in Prague increased by almost 17 percent compared to the same month of the previous year, 6.5% in Brno, 5,8% in Ostrava. The growing demand of the owner of the apartments motivates the price increase. There is also a need to take into account the growing backup on energy. "This year we expect an increase in rent prices by 19 percent," said Mr.Mejzlík. The increase in rents in the coming weeks is expected by many real estate analysts from Bezrealitky.cz . They're already seeing it at the prices in the capital. "The continuing growth of Prague prices without a significant increase in demand clearly shows that the period of cheap rents is gone and prices will soon reach the level again around CZK 290 per metre as before the pandemic," said Hendrik Meyer from Bezrealitky. This is what we're talking about - simply demand far, far above supply, and not only are housing prices becoming unavailable, properties for young people, for any citizens of the Czech Republic, rents are starting to rise on the basis of a small property offer, and it will simply be a problem to live in rents. As many liberal democrats say, look in the world - in the world rental housing is completely normal, it exceeds residential housing or where one owns an apartment or a real estate. In the same way, it is clear to us that rental housing will swallow most of the citizens' wages or wages. And I'm not sure if a person who lives alone and doesn't share two as a family in a rental home, if they can afford it in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u41	I apologize, Mr President, for interrupting. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u42	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President. Natland's chief economist Petr Bartoň, in turn, fears that rents can grow even faster in smaller cities than in the metropolis. "Most people usually live in them and therefore increase the demand for rents there due to the relative size of the market will have a great influence," Bartoň said. In his opinion, therefore, rents can grow by tens of percent this year, and average rents in smaller houses can start to equal prices in larger ones more quickly. So it's not really that the SPD is saying anything, it's making something up, it's fighting the coalition. We simply quote the opinions of experts and people who say so themselves and argue that this is a problem and that if something does not happen, it will be a big problem for all citizens of the Czech Republic. All this is primarily due to the failure of the construction law, or because of the fact that the government of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, the STAN movement and the Pirates block the entry of its positive change from last year into effect. Well, that was the argument, and I think the only reason I got off today is so people know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Bartoš will now speak with priority right and Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u44	I was wondering how I listened very carefully to the chairman of the SPD club, why does he say that here? Then he explained that it was probably for the video. I don't really understand the design of your argument. For 20 years, rent prices have been rising, municipal property has been privatised since the 1990s, and privatisation continues somewhere, property prices are rising and the government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of Regional Development, who is in office for 120 days, is responsible for this. So either we're describing some phenomenon that's permanent, which is - housing inaccessibility, poor financial instruments for construction, even the complexity of building management - and so this is a phenomenon that needs to be changed. This is done by legal changes in the type of law that will increase the availability of housing, or by financial instruments to enable municipalities to build. But then it cannot be attributed to the fact that we are discussing a postponement of the amendment to the construction law or parts of the amendment to the construction law. [[11.30 hours]] When I listen to Mr. Okamura's SPD chairman, he's usually more wild. You're doing a lot better than that, but it's also not true. You've been comparing countries to the speed of the building process. I, if I line up those countries, even European ones, of course, a country that doesn't care much about private property, and decides to build massively, expropriates it by one hundred and six. There are countries that are in that ranking, where there are normally regulated rents that have not gone through the period of communism, what we, when the state almost didn't allow any ownership, and for a long time after, although repairs to the buildings were on the owners of the buildings, they couldn't actually rent out their apartments in that market environment. We can't compare states by any one number, let it be the number of operations, let it be the speed of construction. It also applies somewhere where there's a country where there's a lot of corruption, so whoever's erasing, who's building and going. So when I'm leaning on some statistics, I always want to see what these indicators are based on which the comparison took place. I now had the opportunity - it seems to be unrelated - to come to Eagle as part of a visit to the Moravian-Silesian Region. According to some Orlová statistics, it's supposed to be the worst place to live, because the best place to live according to the same statistics are the Říčany. It is true that there are differences, but the assessment of these two cities is based on some criteria of a private study, for example in the fact that culture in the city is evaluated by how many cinemas there are and what is the driving distance to the cinema - I don't know if there is a complex or a cinema - or how far away it is from the town hall to the hospital. [[are:]] The difference between the first Říčany and the last Eagle are four points on the ten-degree scale, where all the cities are stacked up in it. So I would really be - and here Bangladesh was said, it amused me. It doesn't matter how many acts there are, but how they're processed. We, Madam Secretary, were in Finland to see an office without papers. It was a model office that normally works, where the civil servant was sitting, he had a beard, headphones, a huge monitor, he looked at digital technical maps in a three-dimensional mode, and he said, "I'm very busy today, I've got 37 building procedures today." Because in a digitized building control, where there are models of those houses, including material constants, where there are digitized rules on how a builder can place the object in the territory and you move it like that because something doesn't match, this guy's gonna do 37 building controls there. But it's not about whether there's a Supreme Building Authority, it's about digitizing the building management, good planning, which doesn't affect the law. So please, let's not compare the incomparable - I set the example of the Orlová. There's a nice place in Eagle, there's a new square, there's a house of children and youth from IROP's money, but let's just not compare incomparable. And perhaps the last thing - I believe that when they go through the laws that point to the substance in this parliamentary term, for example, so that municipalities can build better and there are good financial instruments, that we will also have the maximum support from the SPD in this legislation, because I think that the complex, as you have summed it up here and tied it up with the law, solves it as a whole. And maybe one last thing. You were leaning on the statistics that the client himself questioned from the point of view of systemicity. So I remember when the first proposal submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development appeared in the public space, but the law, which did not occur at that time at the Ministry of Regional Development, was more or less outsourced in preparation, so a study by the Ministry of the Interior appeared, then a coalition partner YES, who was totally messing with it, and on the contrary, she talked about extending or possibly freezing the construction process for up to six months, about high transaction costs. They then, in the context of the coalition partners' debate YES and ČSSD, some things became clear, so there was a rhetorical reduction in the presentation of this study, but I would really like when we deal with the issue of affordable housing and offer of flats on the market, so that we look at it as a complex matter and try not to claim that whether there would be a Supreme Building Office, where people would actually sit at one table and deal with things like that someone would hit the table and now it would be like this, so I wouldn't really apply to the issue of availability or non-accessibility of housing as a whole. Of course, the speed, transparency of building management and the good role of urban planning play an influence on this, it is one of the conditions, but not the only one to make apartments available to our citizens in any form, whether as property housing or as cooperative, or as municipal tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u45	Thank you, Minister. The President of Radim Fiala will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u46	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's not on the network, it's not even in the video, because my Facebook algorithms are so scrambled that maybe my grandmother, no one else, and otherwise it's not gonna get anywhere. So I'd rather say it in person, and that's probably the difference between my social networks and yours. We have it a little different than you have it on the social media. So it's not gonna be a video. But the point is, the essence of what I said here is - and it doesn't matter if it's Doing Business or if it's any other message - the point is that what's happening here today, Minister, it doesn't give any hope to young people or any people who want to buy some real estate or want to live in the future. That's the point. It doesn't matter if we're 157 or 400 or if we're waiting for a building permit for three months or five months -- just if something doesn't get done about it, if there's absolutely nothing you can do about it, it's your responsibility now. And I guarantee you here for the SPD movement: if you come up with any proposal that shortens the building permit and thus gets a bigger offer or residential property for citizens, we'll always raise your hand for it. So it's not like we're against each other. I'm just asking you, you're the Minister of Digitalization, that's the thing that's absolutely necessary there and that plays a big role in the construction process in the future, so I'm asking you to do something about it so you can just shorten the construction process and let these people know it soon. [[President: Time has passed, Mr President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u47	Thank you for keeping up the time and will now appear with proper application by Mr Jiří Mašek. Mrs Marie Pošarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u48	Madam President, Madam Minister, Ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues, I mostly refer to the things that I understand and which include health, so that is most of my contributions in the House. However, today I am interested in giving the diploma to the Minister with the fact that it is a diploma for the Law of the Year, a new construction law on which he is currently working and wants to amend it in some way. As a simple citizen at the moment, because I really don't control the issue, and as a possible investor, that I might want to build a small house for my child, I tried to Google some information about the construction law and at one of the first places I got the information from the Lawyer's Log. I don't consider the lawyer's diary to be a tabloid, and I suppose it's not even some press that would side with any party or movement, so the information I read there is probably valid and supported. And it says 20. 4.: "In the poll the Law of the Year won the new building law. The thirteenth year of the survey The Law of the Year with a big lead won the topic of the recodification of building law, namely a new comprehensive modification of the construction law. It is intended to simplify and speed up the approval of constructions. It thus responds to long-term calls for the correction of the unhappy state of the binding competitiveness of the Czech Republic and the provision of housing needs. The ongoing parliamentary debate shows that last year's passed law will still admit partial changes. Now it's about what the partial changes are going to be. However, it can be believed that the original intention of the legislator to respond to the demand of both entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens will be maintained. [[11.40 hours]] The survey The Law of the Year has been organized by Deloitte and its law firm Deloitte Legal since 2010. Of the five nominations, hundreds of entrepreneurs chose the best legislation, a set of laws, or a legislative act that has a positive impact on business in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic, the Czech Bar Association and the Chamber of Tax Advisors of the Czech Republic took over again. Two dozen authorities from different areas, not just business, sat on the nomination board. Nominated acts are generally binding legislation of the Czech Republic or the European Union adopted or approved last year." It gives me the impression that the people who judged it were in the right place. And now I ask myself, as a citizen who reads it, as a politician who sits in this House, whether the weight of these people's votes is not higher than our political intentions, some previously pronounced discontent with the law and an effort to change it for every change. "This year's nomination of the five best legislative acts was really varied, and as for the winners, the new building law, it was clear that the unhappy state of construction law could not only be healed by another and another amendment, but that business needed a whole new regulation, and despite the difficulties faced by the recodification of the building law, it was right to reach the five nominees and let us believe that it would really unite, simplify and shorten building procedures and help the business environment." This is said by Robert Němec, Chairman of the Czech Bar Association, which I read as a citizen with satisfaction. Furthermore, the law introduces a unified system of state building offices headed by the Supreme Building Office. "This is a systemic change that addresses the fundamental problem of systemic bias, i.e. the risks of interfering with local authorities' decision-making on building authorisation. The creation of a single system of state authorities can prevent such cases. The benefit can also be a uniform and predictable interpretation of building regulations," adds Olga Kaizar, partner and head of the Deloitte Legal real estate team. "I also consider it essential that the law adequately protects and balances all private and public interests concerned, whether it is the protection of the health, life and property of people, the protection of the environment or the protection of monuments." Here, Minister, I would like to respond to the fact that you see certain shortcomings there, but this is what the Director of the Department of Legislation, Law and Analysis of the Czech Chamber of Commerce and its President's advisor Ladislav Minčič claims. At the same time, the new building law won from five of those who made it to the finals, in an absolutely crucial way, I would say a steamer. He gained 67.5 percent of the 100 percent possible, i.e. from my point of view, from a citizen's point of view, we drill into a law that was evaluated as the best legal standard adopted in 2021. I ask: is it normal to immediately address an amendment to the law, which was evaluated as the best last year? Most of us sat here in the past period, although difficult, but somehow we agreed on the law. The law came into effect, and we're attacking it immediately after it came into effect? What does a normal citizen think about that? It is our job to adopt quality laws here, and if this law has been evaluated as the best last year, it is really hard to explain to citizens. And I would like to have that expectation here, as President Fiala said before me, that we should move from that 160th place to, say, the top 50th place - that would be great. We've been talking about this, and there's been numbers going down here, and it's been eight months and longer, and the good states have it in weeks, maybe eight weeks, so that's our goal, that's what we should go for. And I think that by trying to amend the best law last year, we're stalling the whole process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Ivan Bartoš will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u50	Clearly, the law was so great from the point of view of citizens here in the House of Members and Parties that in the last moments before the elections it was pushed through the House's votes YES, KSČM and SPD, not even the coalition partner, social democracy was involved. You can look at individual legislation from different perspectives. When I look at it - and I'm not a lawyer, but I know people who were involved in the preparation of the law - he really had some legal purity. It's a simple system: something doesn't work here, so I'm gonna shut it down, somebody's stalling me, so I'm gonna cancel the terms, I'm gonna put these people at the table, they're gonna set up a deal, and that's how we're gonna deal with it. I give an example often when I walk across the crossroads, there's a car going, there's a red doll on one side, and there's a red light on the other side, so we're both standing at a crossroads, and we can't move. Is it the right solution to send the traffic lights or to turn off the traffic lights? I think it's right to scramble the traffic lights so that they work in sync so that one lights green, the other lights red. The role of politics, at least that's how I understand it, is in every life situation that a politician has to deal with, reach out to all those stakeholders, work with everyone that the law applies to - a citizen, a city, a landlord, a developer, a business - and look for solutions that are sustainable, consensual, lead to sustainable development and try to find a balance for that solution. If I blamed the law on anything other than the reconstruction of the building authorities' system, it was that he suffered a complete imbalance. And I'm not surprised that the business segment -- and it's legitimate because their goal is profit, build, and that's totally cool, when I do business, I want to make money, when someone paints tourist marks -- so we just have to look for balance. [[Time, Minister.]] It wasn't in the law, it wasn't a consensus, and that's why we're opening it now. From the point of view of the evaluators... I'll take another word after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u51	Thank you. Mr Josef Kott will now appear with a proper application by Mrs Marie Pošarová and prepare himself. [[Objection from Mrs. Dostál.]] I'm sorry. Madam, please bear with me. [[to Mrs Posharova]] Mrs Klára Dostálová and then Mr Martin Kolovratník are in fact reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u52	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. I'm sorry. Just very quickly with a point of fact. What he said here, by your means, Madam President, Minister Bartoš, we need to be clear. The new building bill passed 106 votes in the last House. It wasn't just the ones you named, there were non-inclusions and, of course, part of the ČSSD MEPs. 106 - the exact same number of votes you got to trust. So please don't question these votes because it's not entirely relevant. And then I just wanted to get back to why we're always saying this over and over again. You're trying what went through the law of the year, the experts assessed it, you're trying to postpone it for a year. And yet you say in your second breath - yesterday was too late. Well, that's exactly what "last night was too late" we're reacting to. Let's let the law go into life. The fact that we will then, but when it turns out how it works, somehow editing it is of course relevant. But you won't even let him breathe, and, of course, the experts are reflecting it in some way. So much for information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u53	Thank you. Now another factual one, Mr Martin Kolovratník will speak, and then Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u54	Well, that lifted me up and forced me to respond, Mr. Secretary. Klára Dostálová said that - 106 votes. You're saying - it was pushed, the coalition partner wasn't there. I don't remember the vote exactly, I think a few Social Democrats said it was half-and-half of their club, but 106... 106 votes! Please, it's demagogy, don't say that - it's been pushed through with SPDs, communists and all that. First of all. And then, you guys talk really nice, you're a good rhetoricalist, I admit, that's where I compliment you, and you say - to deal with all the players involved, all the players and so on. But you don't do it yourself. Do you have any information on what's going on at the construction offices, what's the chaos between the employees? We already talked about it today, who's texting who's calling. Those people are in doubt, they don't know where they're gonna work, if they stay in those municipalities, the workers of the construction offices on the edge, the same thing. I'm talking to them, at least in my region, they were looking forward to the change, looking forward to being under the service. I have information that they are considering a strike, that they really quite seriously see it as a huge problem. Not the change you have the right to, you can do it, okay, you have votes for it. But the fact that you've just run off, the fact that you're not communicating with them. They don't have the information. [[11.50 hours]] And the third person you're not communicating with - look again at the networks - your Senator Canov, your coalition partner, completely shocked, upset, and he's talking about how he writes here, not about this drop-off novel, but about what's leaking from the interdepartmental site: "We're going to keep building agencies at local level to decide on the knowledge of the environment," your colleague Canov quotes the coalition agreement. And then he writes in reality, "Let's cancel 244 of the 615 authorities." I mean, even your colleagues, the senators, are against it, and they have a huge problem with it. So this is the communication? Don't be mad at me, but you've come out in an incredible way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with the de facto Minister and then the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u56	I'm just gonna react, that's kind of funny. I'm sure Mr. Canov isn't exactly my partner. We have a lot of things, and I think in the vast majority of things, we probably don't agree at all. He is a senator elected as SSLK, which is even an autonomous part that cooperates with the STAN movement in the Liberec Region. Everyone was terrified, and it came out of the survey, 62% of the people from the construction offices said they weren't going to go under the government and that they didn't want to go from the mixed model. And we have put forward a draft building law, which we discussed with Mrs Klára Dostálová for two years, where we were to clarify from round tables and from grémie, which way we intend to go. We have put forward the proposal as opposition in the process integration part in the past period, so going this way is no surprise. I wanted the new system to be more flexible, and I will tell Senator Canov to the Liberec Region, and possibly others. Therefore, we have proposed a solution where integration at the level of the ORP would occur in one plane and there could be a dedicated workplace in each municipality, where anyone who would like to maintain the building office should have a dedicated workplace, and that would solve it. However, the partners in the region have said that this is undesirable, let us address the availability of building offices in place. That's why we turned to the Ministry of Interior, which has such a table in which it determines availability and representation, and we chose the option more mild, i.e. variant B, up to 35 kilometers of commutation, but you don't go to the building office every day - it's still one office, one stamp, one filing. Then there's the criterion of how many officials there are, how many officials there are, so there's three officials, and how many operations within a year they'll do, just like we've dealt with historically, such as registers. [[Your time.]] So it could have been in the form of a detached workplace in the ORP and, on the contrary, we keep the construction offices in place compared to what the original proposal is, when it was disrupting and doing regional authorities and they would then establish possible authorities in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u57	Thank you for keeping up the time, Mrs Berenika Peštová will now speak with effect and prepare Mr Karel Haas. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u58	I would like to respond to my previous speakers, of course, in the meantime so much has been said again, but I will start where I wanted to start, what I wanted to respond to. Minister, through Madam President, you have, in essence, heard that the law has won the Law of the Year, and you have not given the law a chance to show if it is bad or not bad. Instead, you came here with a novel where you're asking for something that you just can't. That's why, of course, I'm still logged in for a proper discussion, because I'm fierce, I'm gonna want to hear the answers - I always wanted to hear them because I see a lot of lawyers here, and I think even those lawyers would like to hear the answers as well as how they're gonna behave afterwards. But you didn't give the law a chance at all, and you killed him. In your essence, you're flagrantly breaking the law, not fulfilling the law. What is in this law should be applied gradually, and that is why there are those situations that Mr Kolovratník was talking about here, through Madam President, when officials at those offices got into a situation that they are nervous because they don't know what will happen, because we are already at some point in a month, and if it goes at this rate as it goes, we will, in the meantime, reach almost next year and there should be more efficiency. That's what I said, 1. 7. 2023 those officials are supposed to go somewhere. And where will they go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u59	Thank you, Madame. And now with the de facto Mr Karel Haas. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. I, in fact, signed up to respond to my colleague Martin Kolovratník. Although we respect each other very humanly, his performance also slightly elevated me. It highlighted me from this point of view that he stated that the new coalition, including the Minister himself, did not communicate and that he had information that the employees of the existing construction offices under the regime of the mixed model of public administration were looking forward to switching to the regime of the new construction administration. Martin, you are active on the network, through Madam President. I didn't realize you had one single collective meeting with the mayor of the village during this parliamentary term. We've had five so far, we've been circling the region, we're between 10 and 20 mayors at each meeting, and I can confirm to you - it's not a sociological survey - that 95 percent of the employees of existing construction offices in a mixed model construction administration do not want to go to the state construction administration. That's the reality of Pardubice County. I don't transfer the numbers anywhere else. That's the reality of Pardubice County. That's the first thing to communicate. And the second thing I mentioned at the public meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the problem with the still valid and effective new construction law is that it was not put on a social consensus. And as a lawyer, I say that the right should, of course, not always be achieved, be based on a social consensus. If law in the form of legal standards doesn't meet with a community-wide consensus, it can't work. Everyone in this previous House - I was not a participant in it, but from publicly available sources it may be obvious - agreed on most of the procedural instruments of the new building law, but in what there was total disagreement, there was an organizational level. It's the only disagreement. And you have done nothing in the last House, not to be angry with me, in turn through Madam President, for the whole common consensus. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] So in this regard, I was really raised by your words about communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u61	I also thank you for keeping time, and now with the factual rapporteur, Klára Dostálová, then Minister Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u62	Thank you so much for the floor. Without knowing it, I actually got a real connection to my colleague, because I prepared it before you got out. This is exactly what we were discussing on the committee, and I have to say that a whole society agreement on building law would be just great. I'd love it, but I just can't. If we've been accused of doing this as a VIP law for the professional public, don't be mad at me, but you're making it a VIP law for the municipalities, for the mayors. You just can't make a social agreement. And I'm so sorry, but, Minister, you're really misinterpreting the analysis here based on how convenient it is for you. If anything, let's interpret the analysis as it is. We asked the civil servants of the construction offices whether they would go or not: 40 percent yes, 20 percent no - I retire, I'm old - and 40 percent do not know, of course it will still depend on the conditions that will be offered. So it can't be interpreted unilaterally to put things together. And I am terribly sorry yet, through you, to my colleague. You're communicating with the mayors, and they'll tell you no one wants to cross. We're communicating with those officials who say they want to cross over. So watch it. Of course, logically, the mayors have always said that they do not want to lose the construction offices, even though, of course, the benefits of it, if it were the state construction administration, are certainly: representativeness, uniform methodology and so on. But we understand the results of the election, we understand how this is done, that the lobby of the mayors really wins here instead of winning a reasonable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u63	děkovat you, Madame, and now Minister Bartoš will speak with effect. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from today's meeting from 10.30 to 11.30 for personal reasons, and then Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, on account of her foreign travel. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u64	Well, it's just that I've been labeled a demagogist. Please introduce me to the people who are about to strike because they will not be able to become civil servants within the framework of reform. This has been said here by Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President. I can't imagine this is somewhere a real story from real life. I'd be happy to meet these people to say to me, "We're going to strike because there's no Supreme Building Authority and we want to become civil servants." I don't think this story is based on the truth. And here's some criticism to reduce the office's numbers. The original proposal left fourteen regional and then the establishment at will in the transition to the state administration, so that the authorities in the delegation of the ergo municipalities would not have been a hammer at all and the settlement would have taken place at the level of the regions, i.e. at 14 levels. So, actually, there's a lot of arguments going on here. I'm Mrs. Dostálová here to interpret the analysis - so I could also fence here, and I've heard about the tenth time, the law won the prize here, which is why you, as legislators, can't change it, let it breathe. Let him breathe means: will you set up for 3 billion to 20 billion - there was a pitch, how much could it cost - the Supreme Building Office, will you recruit officials to decide in six months or a year that we will cancel because we did not want and criticize this structure from the start? That seems like a pretty special procedure to me. And only to Mrs Peštová. I witnessed a debate like this when Zbyněk Stanjura was here when it sounded, "It's like this, and there's always someone from YES and says, "It's the other way around." And that's the argument of the circle. There's just no retroactivity, the office has its number, it's formally created, it has no budget. We're delaying the moment when it should start to work, in the meantime, we're gonna change the law. It's no retroactivity, we're still moving forward. [[Attention on time.]] And the individual steps necessary for the law to be fulfilled have happened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u65	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kolovratník. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u66	My colleague Karel Haas left me because I wanted to respond to him in that note, so I'm gonna put it to the microphone like this, and then he's gonna play it or listen to it in the lobby somewhere. I want to say two things. Firstly, I know that colleagues in the Pardubice Region drive around the villages, and I drive. They're driving in their SPOLU, I'm once a month, every Monday, I'm riding for myself. I'm meeting both the mayor and exactly as Klára Dostálová said, with the employees of the authorities, the very construction offices, and I don't have it on networks on a private profile, but on a work page. I like to send references to my colleague Haas so he can see, I always describe it. I have these debates not only in the municipalities, but also in Pardubice in the regional city, and, as I said, also with the workers of the construction office at the regional office, i.e. the regional construction office, and their opinion is really different and is different from the mayors that Klára Dostálová mentioned. It's given in DNA. It's logical, everyone has a slightly different interest. And a second reaction. From Karel Haas' mouth, it was said here, about the whole social agreement, perhaps even here all over the house - yes, I can admit that. And I'll look at Law No. 416/2009, to our MP, who also won, by the way, Minister Bartoš, the Law of the Year competition. We made a deal with you Pirát the other day. I remember your colleagues, then members of Ondra Polanský, Martin Jiránek, when we discussed this, saying: We will do it with you MPs, but we do not want energy there, we simply do not want to help energy. I can have some opinion about it, I don't criticize it, I respected it, and that was exactly the political concession and the agreement, and everyone was signed under that MP's amendment at the time. But O.K., here I can respect the fact that you want to do this differently, that maybe this deal will be wider, but I warn you that what you want to do is doing wrong, in the wrong way, and you're threatening the building administration from next year, that you just don't have it well thought out. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u67	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Fialová, and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Okay, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u68	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Haas and to confirm the words of my colleague Dostálová here that it is important to whom she is speaking. Each of the mayors doesn't want to cancel their construction offices, and if you're talking to individual leaders, then if they're already in Troika and they're managing it and they're getting the job done at the moment, because the regional authorities are ordering them to do it, they really want them to have it ordered by law and they're doing it automatically. So there's a big difference whether you're talking to the mayor of the village or the individual officials who are doing the job themselves. Just to give you an idea of what the state is like in the ORP Ústí nad Labem. The great March is one man, there are no deadlines. I looked it up real quick. They cremated - one man of retirement age. Libouchec - one person, two years into retirement. Chlumec - one senior, running out of time, all right. There are three officials in Chabařovice, two in Trmice, and Ústí provides the rest that can't be reached. That's pure reality! Not to mention, when it is given in any other way a cumulation of functions, and it also happens in the municipalities that some of them make property, so the council buys their property, gives its statement to the official, and on the other hand, they give their own building permit for the property they bought a while ago. I'm afraid that's what's happening. So it's just for information, and this could be avoided. And the original intention, which was from the workshop of the previous government, was for them to be able to replace themselves, not to overwhelm the individual officials, and they could normally represent themselves within the oerpé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Peštová, President Michálek will prepare for a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u70	I would like to respond here to Minister Bartoš, through Mr President. But I don't feel that the debate between myself and the Minister has been heated. Maybe argumentative, but it wasn't about me standing here at the counter and saying angryly that he was wrong. I was trying to explain to him argumentically that what he's saying isn't true that in practice it's not like that. The same was true of Mr Michálek, through Mr President, when I tried to explain it to him, and oddly enough, I think he understood that because he did not participate in the debate after that. So I think the discussion was interesting, it was so sharper, I like it, I'm always so happy with the faith, but here's what I'm saying, I'm going to say one thing, and I'm going to keep repeating it, I think I'm going to get the answer from you. When I say it's retroactivity, it's retroactivity because the law has come into effect. It is distributed and gradually gains efficiency and so on. The problem is that you came up with a novel and you say you want to shift the efficiency that has already taken effect. And that's the nonsense I'm saying, which I want to explain from you, and I want to explain it from the lawyers to tell me how they're going to communicate this. I say I am prepared for this general debate because I think it will be longer than for two minutes, and these are the things that interest me, because by the fact that I prepared the laws before I came to the Chamber of Deputies, both in material terms and in paragrafo, I went through the Government's Legislative Council, I know how sharp the Legislative Council was in the various committees, because it was the very capacity that sat there, and I know that it was not easy. And when I said that an exception was granted, yes, an exception was granted because you didn't go through what I was going through. And it wasn't easy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Michálek's point of view follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u72	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to comment on the argument that we are changing something here that won the Law of the Year Prize. Deloitte grants the Law of the Year award in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce. As a matter of fact, the construction law we are talking about was prepared by the Chamber of Commerce under the authority of the Ministry of Regional Development, and Deloitte received a grant from the European Union with participation or from the initiative of the Ministry of Regional Development and part of Deloitte's work was to create a communication strategy. That's okay, that can happen, but only if the main argument here is that we're changing the law of the year, the fact that it's the law of the year, so I don't think that we should be lashing out by basically giving ourselves a title. [[12.10 hours]] We have an electoral program that we promised the citizens, where we said it when we agreed to recodification in the last parliamentary term, that it goes extremely far. And we promised people that the real building law, the construction proceedings would stay close to them, and not that anyone would deal with it remotely on the edge. So we're doing an election program here, and that's way more important than somebody giving themselves a title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u73	Thank you, too. Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u74	Thank you for the floor. So I originally wanted to comment on the costs of what the Minister was talking about, but the demagogy of my colleague Michálek is really already giving me a smile on my lip. Nobody gave themselves a title, at least read the rules. There is some nomination board, where there are thirty people from the representatives of the courts, the Supreme Administrative Court, lawyers and so on, the Union of Towns and Communities and so on, and they nominate five laws, including yours, for example, which you did with Mr. Patrik Nacher, a gracious summer which has also been very well placed, and from these laws the public then selects and the public has given a construction law of 67.5 percent. So it's just a drawing. About the costs. I would finally like to thank the Minister here for not still demagogically saying the analysis of the Ministry of Interior, where he chose only one number, but finally for the first time truthfully on the microphone he said that the range was between 3 and 20 billion. Now let's discuss it. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior assessed that the new building law, actually its implementation, the creation of the building office, would cost essentially the same amount as the construction authorities today. Today, the state pays 4 billion per year in the framework of the delegation, the new construction law will cost 4.1 billion per year, because we have raised the pay grade as well. The $20 billion that the Minister likes to talk about in the media is if the construction authorities were to build on a green field. Nothing like this has ever been intended, and nothing like this will ever happen. So it finally came out here today, and I'm glad for it, and I thank the Minister that the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior actually tells us that both of these options are worth the same. What is important, however, is also to mention that the so-called economic impact assessment shows that, on the contrary, the new building bill will benefit from the state budget of 7.1 billion per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u75	Thank you, that was the last point of fact. And to the general debate - we are going back to the general debate, where Mrs Pošarová is the first to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic has been leading the pan-European ranking since last year. Their price has gone up double in the last two years. The main reason for this is the fact that we don't have the necessary bureaucracy. And our goal, of course, is to build as quickly and as quickly as possible. To change it was a new construction law that was prepared and approved by the last government. He was supposed to pay from July 2023. But the new cabinet wants to postpone the standard by a year, preserves some parts and reworks some. But some lawyers say that people or companies won't know where to go for building permits. In practice, the novel can cause a lot of confusion. The new law has been preparing for a long five years, and from the ground up, it changes the system into building authorisation. Construction authorities should have moved from the municipalities to the state, a part of the smallest ones should have vanished. In addition, the Supreme Building Office was to be established with effect from 1. 1. 2022 and then a special office for constructions such as motorways or railways. Authorisations are to be requested electronically and the authorities are to be given fixed time limits by which they have to decide. But the new government intends to leave the construction authorities to the municipalities and do not count on the Supreme Authority. Lawyers have said that the postponement of the construction law is confusing, because none of the more than 50 other legislation, which has been substantially amended along with the new building law, is in any way regulated. The construction law is actually two, construction and then so-called change. However, Members are now voting only on the first and the second will continue to apply. In practice, there may be various paradoxical situations where builders will ask the court how to submit an application, for example in the case of a municipality for a water connection for a firehouse. Likewise, officials themselves may be uncertain about who they belong to. Ministers of the Government's Legislative Council also drew attention to possible confusion. We need to tell ourselves why the construction law in the Czech Republic is being reformed. After all, we were invited both by the European Commission and by the OECD, because, of course, the state of construction law in the Czech Republic was no longer unsustainable, and it should also be mentioned that the current construction law No. 183/2006 Sb. it has been changed by more than 25 amendments, and it is, of course, burdened and marked by the gradual increase in complexity, formalism, bureaucracy, both in various types of authorisation processes, as well as in a huge number of authorities and institutions involved in authorisation and its review, in particular through the decision-making of various construction offices in municipalities and regions, by a very different level of performance of state administration, the risk of their political influence on representatives of self-government, systemic bias and binding opinions, or stamps of dozens of types of authorities concerned. The result is complicated, intelligible and virtually all long-term criticized state, focused on mutually conditioned formal processes before substance, which reduces the potential of the Czech Republic's economic, cultural and social development, who come into contact with the building authorisation processes. [[and all of them.]] Even a number of NGOs, including environmental associations associated with the Green Circle platform, have already made public calls for fair, faster, better and easier building decisions in 2015. In this challenge, it literally states that the current decision-making on construction is often unbearable, causing losses to investors and damaging the quality of the environment for people's lives. The authorities and the courts are making up for the wrong decisions. We consider complex rules for the decision-making of constructions and inadequacy of authorities and administrative courts to be the main cause of an unbearable state. In general, the World Bank's statement that the authorisation process in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world is also known. According to the length of the standardised construction procedure, the Czech Republic has been placed on the 154th place of 190 evaluated countries with a length of 246 days, and these are only read legal deadlines. Many EU countries address the problem of the complexity of construction law legislation, the length of authorisation processes and the resolution fragmentation. Unification of authorisation schemes and integration of the protection of essential public interests into a single authorisation procedure conducted before the building authority. There is virtually no other solution. For example, ten years ago, around half of the EU Member States joined the territorial and building process into a single authorisation process. Perhaps all Czech political parties in their programmes declare the need to change the current state of public building law and simplify and accelerate the authorisation processes. Even the current government in the programme statement of 7. 1. 2022 states in several places that the most important is the crucial acceleration of the construction process at the moment. At the same time, it states that it will try to change the construction law so that the construction authorities are preserved at local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u77	Thank you. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Kott.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, Minister, I, too, would like to comment on the amendment to this law, although, as my colleague Mašek said, I am trying to speak to things that I think I fully understand, which is agriculture and the environment. However, this issue, given that it affects all of us, is something that needs to be said more. [[12.20 hours]] We have heard much about why it is a big political and professional mistake to delay the effectiveness of part of the recodification of construction law in the Czech Republic. It is quite obvious that it is not a matter of dealing with the situation, but of showing that we are sufficiently ideologically anti-babish. It reminds me of a story that children already know in primary school and ended up destroying Carthage. So now the new government coalition, it seems, behind each paragraph, has the need to add: After all, I believe that the construction law must be destroyed. If we didn't care about what will happen to the Czech Republic, we could say: Well, do what you think, you will bear the responsibility yourself and the consequences will be attributed to you. Unfortunately, the damage we will do with this will have great consequences and will be very difficult to correct in my opinion. I would like to draw attention here to a number of fundamental things from my point of view. First of all, it is widely known that the proposals you are supplying us with are not really proposals by ministers or governments, but they are proposals that - the Minister said so here, actually the former Minister - were written by the law office. I think the same thing. But it's not transparent, and it's kind of happening a little bit in the middle. The opposition criticized the previous government for its lack of transparency and miscommunication. On the contrary, I believe that the past government has openly and transparently described the memorandum with the Chamber of Economics and the entire process of preparing the recodification was supervised by the College of Minister for Regional Development, in which representatives of all political parties, associations of cities and municipalities had their representatives. It is repeatedly said that there is no need to make structural changes, but that everything can be replaced by digitalisation. I don't think that's entirely true and it's a naive idea. Digitisation is a necessary and important tool, but it will not work without real change. We will not reduce the number of offices, stamps, appeals, courts, or prevent other faulty processes that are the cause of such a critical state today. We may figure it out ourselves, but it'll be too late. In addition, this whole approach will not lead you to digitalization, but to simple electronization, and in my opinion it is already there. It is possible to send documentation through data boxes. It is therefore very far from digitalising the construction process. How will we deal with things as a unified system, where all the participants in the process will have their software and hardware, how will we ensure uniform methodologies if the individual authorities are responsible for them without the possibility of actually connecting with them? I would like to emphasise one more thing, and that is the money that we have worked hard to get from the European Union to digitize building law, and these will probably have to be returned because we will not be able to make the whole process through this. This is a 4.5 billion circus that would help in the area where we are, as said here, fundamentally behind. And of that, 1.5 billion is intended precisely and only for the implementation of this recodification. I am surprised how imperfect the proposal is, moreover, presented here, as if we did not know that the recodification of building law is not just a building law, but it is dozens of other laws related, which are closely linked to each other. In my opinion, the proposal to postpone part of the whole will bring chaos, uncertainty and problems. On the other hand, there are a few things that we, as a Republic, had a duty to accept and implement under European law. For this reason, I believe that you are putting the Czech Republic at very serious risk of infringement, i.e. infringement proceedings. This may bring further serious problems for drawing funds from the European Union and discussing what problems we have here, that we will lose funds, we have been running here very often and for a very long time at the last meeting. You probably also do not know that one of the conditions for the adoption of the National Recovery Plan, i.e. the document on the basis of which the Czech Republic will receive subsidies from the European Union, was the adoption of the recodification and its implementation. Also, so that it doesn't occur that colleagues from the European Union will be asking what we are doing here. I cannot even pause over what game is being played here with a common citizen, because on the one hand you loudly say that the system of accepted recodification is needed to stop, cancel, destroy, or do not lead to the expected, but on the other hand it will lead to a halt of approval processes, collapse and, in my opinion, it will cost a lot of money. I disagree with your claim. Dear colleagues, let us bear in mind all the above, carefully follow the process and remember in the coming weeks also what the opposition leaders of those years and months said, today's government, about the need to have sufficient time to connect such important legislative technical, let us want a consistent discussion and discussion not only across the political spectrum, but let us also ask for opinions from other participants in the construction process, let us ask for a complete legislative process, the expression of the Government's Legislative Council, let us ask for opinions from all ministries and bodies. [[Standards]] The right earlier opposition, today's coalition, said how important this law is. Then and now, let us want to decide the analysis, the arguments and the numbers. The previous government had many of them from experts and experts, yet it was not enough. Let us now be extremely curious about what will be presented by the one who will work significantly on the new form. In conclusion, I would like to say - and I think we all feel - that the time is not good, we are going into a storm. Instead of an imaginary umbrella, which we should be prepared in the form of modern building legislation, protected and which could help us deal with this problem, with this strain, I think we have decided irresponsiblely to expose ourselves to a crisis that may continue to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u79	Thank you. The next one entered in the general debate is Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u80	Hello again. As I said, I am fierce, I am just fierce, and I will want to hear the answers either from Minister Šalomoun, through Mr President, and I can already see that Mr Haas has returned, so, perhaps through Mr President, he will be involved in the debate, and perhaps you will explain it to me. My questions were, I think they were simple and they were put in a way that was understandable, understandable, so I'm interested in: You come up with a retroactive proposal and I'm interested in how you're going to defend retroactivity. First question. Are you going to defend her so that it's common practice? Or that it concerns only the transitional provisions of the law? That it's retroactivity, but in favour of the recipients of the standard? Or that it is an unusual legislative technique, but that, in principle, there is still no decision by the Constitutional Court to prohibit it? I'd just like to hear the answers from you, and I'm interested. I am also interested in the fact that I have been through some practice, I think it is not small, and I know that if I had presented this or if I had tried to argue this in the Legislative Council of the Government, I would not have been heard. [[12.30 hours]] Likewise, when I came to the Legislative Council of the Government and I wanted a blank check for some sort of decree, or for the authorisation of the decree, I listened to a really big bunch of the fact that they weren't there to give me a blank check for something they didn't know what they looked like, because the European Commission maybe hasn't produced anything yet, and I wanted to have some sort of authorisation in the forum so I could react afterwards. So I know that it really wasn't easy going through them, through that legislative board of administrative law, I don't know - corporate law. We just had to go through all those committees. And I know they were really asking hard questions. I'm interested, I just want to hear the answers, if you'd be so kind as to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u81	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mr Kubík. First of all, the Minister for Legislative Activities is in favour, and then Mr Kubík's speech will follow. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u82	Thank you for the floor. Madam, I am not quite sure if your preparation, your question is going to this press, because in the House, there is a similar print number 63, because the transitional provisions are a little differently designed there, and I believe that your question would be somewhat more reasonable there. However, I will try to answer that, as I understand it. If this is a question of how you're going to defend retroactivity, on the one hand, I think that the question is essentially random, and he's counting on the fact that it's actually some kind of retroactivity. I don't think so. And what bothers you is that it might seem that the effectiveness of an effective provision is being shifted, if I understand correctly. However, I believe that this is not really happening in this case, and if you look at Title 5, then Title 5 already has a special provision in the title on the applicability of the Act in transitional periods, and we have efficiency or shift of effectiveness in Section 335. So efficiency is shifted by this law only where, so to speak, it goes, where it has not yet taken effect. However, where it took effect, a different procedure was chosen. I can still say I didn't invent the procedure, so I'm just defending it. Even to me, the procedure seems Solomonian, but in principle possible, and the way that a transitional period has been chosen has been chosen, while in that transitional period, so to speak, the effects of the law are actually hibernating for some time. However, it must be noted that the hibernated provisions do not interfere with anyone's rights, the builders will not be affected. It will not affect officials either, because the state construction administration has not yet been established and no official has gone to the newly established state construction administration. Nor will the President of the Supreme Building Office be affected, because he has not yet been selected. In other words, the present amendment will not interfere with anybody's rights, but of course it is clear that something else will have to follow up on this amendment, the amendment to the construction law, which is already under review. And I think everything's gonna happen. And what I wanted to say is that when the petitioner approached this solution, it was not such an innovative solution. An example may be the service law of 2002, which also partly became effective. Among other things, the General Directorate of State Services was formally established, but it was never fully established because the effectiveness of the rest of the law was constantly and permanently postponed. And that's basically an example that's a little bit comparable to our situation, the existence of the Supreme Building Authority, which is not yet occupied. So I believe I've already satisfied your curiosity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u83	Thank you. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mrs Peštová. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u84	Thank you, Minister, for stepping up to the counter, through Mr President, and answering me. That example you were saying, did something hibernate like that? Or was the efficacy delayed even before the efficiency was acquired? 'Cause now, as you explained it, you're Solomonian, though like Šalomoun, you've found some sort of solution, but the point is, you're lawyers, that's just... I understand you're looking for some loopholes to go around or how the legislation that we have here that she's acquired was supposed to take place, so now she's looking for some way to go around it in Solomon with the fact that actually what didn't happen, she's going to hibernate. That's not good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u85	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister and the Vice Prime Minister report with priority rights, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u86	If I can: that something is to be paid or, according to something, to go in the legal sense, the law knows a lot of cases where it doesn't apply at certain times. We have different institutes, different withdrawal periods, different moratoriums and so on. In principle, this is nothing more than that similar considerations have been reflected in how to actually solve it technically, when some of the provisions have already taken effect. But as you understand it - we do not change the effectiveness of those provisions that are already effective. This is more about the formal side of the thing that you're thinking is wrong, but it's not wrong in a formal way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u87	Your speech raised one point of fact, and that was Mrs Dostálová. Then the Vice Prime Minister reports with priority rights to the general debate and then we will return to the general debate with Mr Kubík. Madam, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u88	Thank you so much for the floor. I am really glad that we have Minister Šalomoun here, that he answers these questions. I would like to thank him because I also want to ask about what is not clear to me. In fact, we don't deal with the amendment law at all in this press 137, and you said here in the opening act that we're going to bridge it with the interpretation. So I want to ask you how the interpretation of water management laws will be bridged by water management authorities being created under the Supreme Building Authority. That's how it's written. But we're going to bridge it with interpretation, that's one. 7. 2023 we will not call them, those officials, do not go to the Supreme Building Office, it does not exist, stay seated in the village. So it's gonna be like the overexpression? I wonder what the courts will do about it when they challenge these decisions from that point of view, that there has actually been confusion and chaos in the legal environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u89	Thank you for keeping time. With priority right now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u90	I just wanted a refill. When this service law, which is not institutional by its nature, and I have other examples here, the establishment of an independent intelligence control authority, was set up in 2017 by an amendment to the Intelligence Act, it still has no members, no one has been elected and therefore the authority exists only on paper, even though it was anticipated to be created. An example may be when we go a long time ago, I don't know if Minister Šalomoun, the First Republic Constitutional Court, mentioned it here. It existed from 1920, but then from 1931 to 1938 it had no members, so it could not function. He did not resume his activities until May 1938. Every law has a timeline. Here it arose, by - and I will return to why this is happening as it happens - when, although it seemed to me that we had agreed that before the end of the year, the amendment of Members Kupka, Bartoš, Výborný and other Houses would pass, so we got to the moment when the selection procedure took place for the Chief of the Supreme Office was not chosen, there is a budget chapter in which there is no budget at the moment. It's a systemized ten places. And if Mrs Peštová here, through Mr President, says: Get the whole process going, because you are not doing the right thing, and the result of this process is that this office will not come out from next year anyway, because until then, the amendment will be approved, which will address it in the given time frame, where we are creating the space. After all, the amendment, including implementing laws, is in the interdepartmental commentary procedure, which allows all the things that we have decided to do. [[12.40 hours]] And I will go back to that again, a lot of things from the original building law, which is why our criticism is actually heading towards institutional change, it remains preserved because we found it consensual and appropriate. So we're changing the institutional basis, and on the other hand, it would be most irresponsible for me to take action and have the costs to prepare for something that doesn't happen in the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u91	Thank you. Your speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Peštová. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u92	So I would like to respond here to Minister Bartoš, through Mr President. I'm not going to 1938 or 1939, so I'm staying at the moment. I understand that when I intersected Minister Stanjura, through Mr President - if he does not sit here, I do not know whether I have to say it or not - in any case he answered me, I quote: "And what you are saying, we must also proceed with the care of a proper economy. If we have the will to change the bill so that it is better and functional, it seems irresponsible and uneconomic to make expenses that would actually be one-off and that would prove unnecessary spending in a few weeks or months." End of quote. Well, since you mentioned other laws, I'm gonna go somewhere else, too. Do you think the EET law didn't cost a small amount of money if we behave with the care of a proper economy? The law works. Why are we canceling it now? I don't understand. We fill one law, cost a lot of money, something comes back to us, we cancel it, we don't treat it with proper care. Here we have a law that we won't even let go of, or let go of, or let live, but we'll just cancel it, and here we're acting with proper care. You talk every time you like it. Once we're farmers, twice we're not farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u93	Thank you. Another point of fact, President Výborný. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u94	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, through you to the speaker. Hello, Madam Secretary and Vice Prime Minister. Well, that's pretty simple. There would be a whole new system of offices headed by the super-office of the highest building administration, and that would be precisely the incessantly spent public funds that the Minister spoke of in his response to your interpelration. I understand that, and I think that maybe most Members here understand that. And what you're saying, I want to ask, what are the cost of the state of EET? I'm afraid none of them, or yes, are the costs for the officials who then piss off the entrepreneurs, that's all. So the abolition of the EET will only help, but it really is not that we are unbiasedly dealing with the funds spent, on the contrary, we will save just for the bullying procedures of the Financial Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u95	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Peštová's factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u96	I would like to respond to Mr Excellent, through Mr President. I don't think you need to think about whether or not I understand. I think I understand pretty well, and I think we all understand pretty well here. I mean, the discussion here is completely different. I was trying to get information because you didn't want to give me the information all the time, you kept sneaking around. I say, thank you again, Minister Šalomoun, for starting to discuss this with me today. I care about it from practice, practical - from my practice, because really, believe me, we passed those laws, I did them. Now I'm an MP, before I made the law. And I am interested because we have prepared laws for the Chamber of Deputies. I am glad that this is smiling, Mr Member, through Mr President, but we have simply passed these laws. And we had to answer a lot of questions at the Government Legislative Council, and no one here wanted to answer me, which is why I asked. So now I understand that we just have to create some models that hibernate, hibernate until we figure out something better so that it becomes effective, and then we actually flush it down, and then we go around the law in a beautifully elegant way. Now I understand, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u97	I also thank you for keeping the time, and now she has signed up with the priority right of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u98	Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, I would like to make a statement because I have registered here a debate on the construction law, and I am surprised - I think that Mr Haas, through the President, was speaking clearly here that, in the framework of the construction law, there was, above all, total disagreement at the organisational level, namely that people should go under the quotation marks of the central building office and, of course, under other organizational elements. But what I want to say here is that, as I see the current proposal, I am not sure at all, and I am convinced that there will be no social consensus and consensus on this proposal, which - we are obviously not discussing here at the moment - but we already know that it is on the table of the Ministry of Regional Development's pen. And so if we have 694 construction offices in the Czech Republic today and the state wants to abolish 244 of these construction offices, I would like to ask if this is already approved by the Union of Towns and Municipalities, Association of Local Authorities. I'm sure I'll get an answer to the fact that it's being discussed in some way, but when I read in the media today, I don't read one positive response. The mayors are clearly saying that this will delay the fact that people - and we all know that if we are asking for a statement of construction modifications, a building permit, we are not going to that office once, we are going there many times. There's a great fear of black buildings. Then also the way in which the Ministry decided at this time, which, if necessary, will cancel the construction offices, whether it is given by the distance of the building office, which should not exceed 35 kilometers. Then, of course, there is another thing that if they have fewer than three employees with a proficiency test, if there are 10,000 inhabitants in the administrative district and so on, then the criteria are also a question. And I say this first of all because I see the way the mayors are looking at it at this point, and I was in the past, Minister, at the Ministry of the Interior, and I know that many times there has been talk about matrices and these things and it has always been very difficult to push this through and negotiate this because every mayor wants to have that construction office, he wants to have it there for his citizens, he wants to be close to them, he doesn't want to have black buildings in his territory and so on. I say this first of all because I think that, as the Member here rightly said, it will be very difficult to look for an all-social consensus. Even here it will be very difficult to talk, and I agree with many of the mayors, because they certainly have the arguments, and that is why they came along with the mixed model, because we say that people should have that service close so that they can deal with it. And once again, the building agenda is really, I dare say, one of the most problematic. If you do any analysis on this, you can see that each building office is going differently, everyone requires different documents. [[12.50 hours]] So, based on what I just heard here, I took the liberty of saying that even at this point, I perceive that what the Ministry of Regional Development is coming with at the moment is not the right way, and I am certainly not convinced - and we will definitely say - that there will be an all-social consensus on this. And I would like very much to ask the Minister for Regional Development if he could answer my question, even though it affects, of course, the subsequent law which will only come to the Chamber of Deputies, if he could also answer in the context of negotiations with the Association of Local Authorities, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Regions. I know there was a meeting going on here, where, of course - I've already announced it here - they haven't been invited, but if you answer that question, I'd love it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u99	Thank you. Your speech raised two factual points, first President Výborný, Mr Haas will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond, through you, to Vice-President Vildumetzová. There were questions. First of all, I'll take it from the end, you were invited to this meeting, of course, at the Ministry of Regional Development your colleague and chairman of the Klára Dostálová Committee, and to what you are asking: unlike the way in which your government coalition, or the coalition of the construction law with the communists and with the SPD, pushed the power of the building law, where there was no social consensus, which he spoke of here, by your means, colleague Karel Haas, so let us all remember well - there was no harmony with the Union of Towns and Communities, neither with the Association of Local Government, nor with the Association of Regions, and so I could continue. That is exactly what we wanted to avoid, and since I was in that coalition working group with Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, I can assure you that this was exactly the goal, and when we were dealing with a matter that is not at all relevant to the Parliamentary press 137 - I would like to move on to what we are discussing today, and this information that I will say, please, let us close it and let us discuss what we have on the table. But to calm you down, the result of the number of construction offices was three months, perhaps four months of debate with these organizations as well, and the result, which at the moment is only in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and is not finally discussed by the government, the process is clearly set with a timetable, has a positive opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, a positive opinion of the Association of Local Authorities, a positive opinion of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, as well as the Association of Historical Sites. To be precise, I have personally discussed this with the head of the Regional Association legislative section, Mr. Governor of Netolický. They're going to discuss it, but it's preliminarily said "yes." With this compromise, which was also a coalition agreement, we are able to work with it and we are in agreement with it. The same information is from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, as well as from the Association of Local Authorities. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u101	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My name came from two forewords. It's also appropriate to respond to that. First of all, I will follow up completely, without any agreement, on my colleague, Marek the Výborný, through Mr President. I meant, in particular, that anything compromises on the new construction law was not achieved. It's not about hearing 100 to 0. The point is to find a compromise, any compromise in relation to professional associations representing municipalities. Colleague Marek Výborný, once again through the President, here he well mentioned that the new construction law had a dissenting opinion of the Association of Regions, a dissenting position of the Association of Local Authorities, a dissenting opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. These are the three most basic organizations representing ammunition in this country, neither of these associations agreed with the new construction law. That's the discrepancy I was talking about, and there was a zero effort to find a compromise. I'm not talking about going over to one side or the other, I'm talking about finding a compromise. And on the legal aspects that my colleague Peštová has asked me to do - I would certainly not be able to do that in fact, if I so referred to my speech on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The speeches are public, there I was talking about all three, say, problems that can be seen in the Houses of the Press 137: failure to establish a system of state building administration, in quotation marks a shift within the already valid, partly effective, partially ineffective law and thirdly, an interpretation problem and a relation to the amendment law. Here on the three aspects, I have spoken to all three, I assume that they were addressed by Mrs Peštová through Mr President, so I refer very quickly to my speech to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u103	Thank you for keeping time. Now we have a series of factual remarks, I'll read their order. Mrs Dostálová's first speech, Mr Výborný will be prepared, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and, finally, Mr Bartoš, Vice Prime Minister. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u104	Thank you so much for the floor. I would like to comment on the fact that no compromise has been found. Well, of course it was, it was a government version that was a compromise, and there was also a positive position at the Prime Minister's level once at the level of the Union of Cities and Cities to give it negative at the time when it was presented to the House. So I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed so that you guys can live up to the obligations that you have with those authorities, because we're reading something completely different in the media, how mayor storms and so on. And about the communication. You're turning the wheel again, on the other side. You don't communicate with anyone who's supposed to build it, you only communicate with the authorities. That's why I'm saying that the whole social agreement - we talked about it on the committee - is definitely wanted by everyone and no one can say no, but when we were accused of being a VIP law for the business sector, you're making it a VIP law for the mayors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u105	Thank you. On another point of fact, Mr President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u106	Thank you for the floor. I have one thing to set right here. When I was talking about the statements of individual organisations, so to be honest, by the Association of Local Authorities it was repeatedly said that they would like to maintain all the construction offices, all seven hundred, but the resulting compromise of those negotiations, which ultimately is part of the press that is not being discussed today, is the result for them that they understand that this is some resulting compromise position, better than the variants that, for example, it would be just ORPs and so on. So that it's clear and proper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u107	Thank you. Another in the order of the factual remark is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u108	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Thank you for your response to Mr Haas and Mr Výborný. I will just say that what Mrs Dostálová has already announced here, that indeed - and I see it in the media as the tables are coming out - is threatening anarchy, the mayors are warning, the county is supposed to disappear, x the authorities, I said that we now have 694 and the state wants to cancel 244. I am convinced that this is going to be very difficult, and I really do not have any information at this time about a positive position such as the Union of Cities and Municipalities - I will not talk about the others. At the same time, I would like to say that I stood as the head of the Association of Regions until 2019 before I left for the so-called motherhood, and I must say that I did not register from the Association of Regions that it would give a negative opinion on this. That's what I'd like to say. Of course, it could have evolved in some way, but from what I remember, Mrs. Exminister for local development Klára Dostálová has always been very helpful, communicating with the President at that time with the Public Administration Committee, Mr. Bartoš, Mr. Kupka, and I know that they have always tried to find a solution. And I'm really convinced of that - and indeed, Mr. Ambassador. Excellent, through Mr President, we will conclude - that it will be very difficult to find a common consensus even now. I am very convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u109	Thank you. And the last point of fact is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u110	I would still like to respond, perhaps really to a colleague of the Excellent, through Mr President. Yes, there was a meeting of the government coalition in the House with its partners from the authorities, where we did not invite President Dostálová. But I have ten meetings with ČKAIT every day, with architects, with Prague, with municipalities with which I deal with other parts of the construction law, planning. [[13.00 hours]] And I dare to be so bold and reserve that for political meetings that I attend as a minister or with other ministers or for a coalition meeting, I do not automatically invite club presidents in the House or invite committee chairmen just because the agenda is cross-cutting. Of course, I'm also hosting round tables, but if I have any strategic meetings with anyone, I've always lived in the belief that it's not such an obligation. It is often said: You did not invite us to do this, it is wrong. So in those negotiations where bread finally breaks, there is a compromise, so on the contrary, I think there is no deficit. Likewise, and I must say, we took part in all the negotiations on the construction law until the moment Mr. Kolovratník came up with the first law, and all that was negotiated on the gremias, round tables, meetings in the House, fell off the table and returned to the original government proposal, where the institutional part simply disappeared. So it's not really about talking about it, and the result is that all of your comments were actually settled by ignoring them. That's not the result either. And I have to say, and I have -- and I have someone who's kind of banging on my door -- of course I have a meeting that I don't have, because the only result of the negotiations is that the counterparty is telling me to keep the Supreme Building Authority, and he's going to repeat the same arguments to me. And I'm gonna say no, we have this proposal, and then it's kind of pointless when I get texts from the same people that we need to meet, because there's no consensus, and it's a waste of time for me and for the other side. So I apologize to everyone I don't communicate with the same thing ten times, because no new arguments on the table, why my path or our coalition path is wrong and their right, will no longer be heard at the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u111	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Haas. Mrs Dostálová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe for the last time in fact. It has been said here that the Vice-President, through you, Mr President, is not known for the dissenting position of the Association of Regions. In fact, I will not quote all three professional associations of municipalities, but I quote here the opinion of the Association of Regions exactly from May 25th, if I say so well, in 2021, May 27th, the day the House passed a new construction law. "The construction law would bring about an office that, from our point of view, would not accelerate the proceedings, would still be expensive and inefficient. We don't see the benefit to people. The fact that the construction process is to be simplified and accelerated is true and without discussion. We supported the amendments of the Group of Members around the Vice-President of the House Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Martin Kupka and pirát. The government has not reflected it, and the resemblance that is now is unacceptable to us, and above all, it will not lead to what citizens need." That's a quote - the chairman of the Association of Regionals. [[Vice-President Mračková is asking who exactly that quote is.]] But for the County Association, Mr. Cuba. Citation from 27. 5. 2021. So much really for completeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u113	Thank you. Now, Mrs Dostálová's factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u114	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I am far away to advise the Minister, but exactly what you have described here, Minister, serves the College of Ministers, which means that there are all parties involved, because when you invite everyone individually, it is clear that everyone insists on their positions. Well, then I can only highly recommend that a college where two currents of opinion conflict is certainly good at times. And as for the meeting that has already been mentioned here, of course I do not want to go anywhere where I am not invited, but it was a meeting with regional partners, that is, the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions, on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies. That is why I have raised the question mark that I do not really understand why the chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has not been invited to this meeting. And only to my colleague Haas, through you. The amendments from Mr Kupka's workshop, Bartoš and all that, were unnegotiable because they did not change the amendment law. It was just a construction law, and it was absolutely unsolvable. But I understand that the compromise path was the government proposal where it was actually being prepared for four years. On the other hand, the high ground of the House is the high ground of the House, and I think that is indisputable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u115	Thank you. We are returning to the general debate, no de facto and patience itself - Mr Kubík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u116	Dear colleagues, we are slowly approaching a part of the construction law, which seems more formal if you want to operate. You want to postpone the effectiveness of legislation, which the Czech Republic has been waiting for as much as God's mercy for many years. However, the truth is that this displacement will be much more fundamental. It is also about what will happen next with the whole issue. Personally, I am most concerned that all of you, as far as possible, will end and follow will be confused creativity, seeking consensus between Pirates, ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Mayors, where everyone has very different views on the whole and details, as we have seen in the past six years, when construction law recoding has been working very actively. In all of this media noise and political proclamation, the important thing is forgotten. The construction law is here to let anyone who has to or wants to build something know where, how, what they have to do about it, when they get an answer, what competences and responsibilities are associated with individual actions, such as the responsibility of the designer for compliance with regulations, the responsibility of the authorities for the timely and impeccable decision, the responsibility of the builder for compliance with obligations. The construction law must lay down the rights and obligations and roles of individual actors in a simple, comprehensible and clear manner. Such a building bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies only a few months ago. To cling to maintaining the status quo, which is exactly what you're trying to do, means not to improve anything. A change in only a small part cannot improve the whole. I feel sad and bad, for example, when I hear that there is no need for systemic change, because digitalization is enough. Without real systemic change, the process cannot be simplified or accelerated, and certainly not removed from it its fundamental shortcomings. And not just that. Without real systemic change, we're not doing digitalization, but just simple electronization. Yes, the builder sends his application through a digital portal, but that's all that can be achieved at the moment, because without unification, one cannot have a unified system, a uniform methodology, a technique and a relevantly educated employee, nothing. Sending pédéfko electronically, we don't have to change anything, it can be done today via data box. But that is still not what the construction law was about. Unfortunately, many of you have not understood this - some have understood it, but are able to sacrifice it at the cost of political points. In the election programs in the last election, as a coalition, you had a take-off speech about how to remake everything, save it, do better, happier and faster. But let's look at your electoral promises from the previous period, and we will find very quickly that it was just the last government, the last parliament, and the still valid law without the shifted effectiveness that your promises to the voters fulfilled. What did the ODS promise? Easier construction process. But this can only be achieved by simplifying the system and processes. The ODS promised the principle of once and for all. This principle, as in the first field of Czech law and practice, has actually been effectively described in the recodification of building law, has clearly divided competence, introduced the principle of appeal and removed the legislative ping-pong - an incredibly powerful moment with effects not only on those entering the system but also on the state, courts and expensiveness. In the last parliamentary term, the ODS also promised to put on a ceiling change, which is already being demonstrated. But even in the case of construction offices, the number of officials cannot be controlled unless they have one central place to drive. The ODS is loud in the promise to cancel various responsibilities and bureaucratic burdens, and it also had that in its programme during the last parliamentary term, but what is the reality? Now he wants to postpone the effectiveness of the law, which brought about a major abolition of duties and bureaucratic burdens: only a few out of dozens of authorities, few out of dozens of decisions, except in fact one stamp instead of fifty or more. Just one review, one trial, a warrant within a year. The ODS also promised savings through digitization. Well, that's been here before. Without structural systemic change, there will be no digitalization, instead there will be mere electronization. Do you think the difference is just words? I don't think so, unfortunately. [[13.10 hours]] TOP 09 promised not to allow the state to treat the citizen as a superior. Even this principle can be found well and easily in the recodification of building law, for example in the case of deadlines which should be binding and given not only for applicants but also for officials, respectively the State. What's not to like about the TOP 09? We will enforce a new construction law that will facilitate the implementation of all types of buildings, the applicant will submit one application, the others will be provided by the relevant construction office, claimed the TOP 09 in the previous parliamentary term. We did it for her. I guess that's why he wants to change it now, even if they deny themselves. After all, TOP 09 also promised the abolition of unnecessary regulations, the acceleration of legal proceedings, the introduction of binding deadlines, and many others - which was clearly written in the recodification of the construction law. The pirates were talking about faster construction without corruption. It is the principle in which the original problems of the approval process are preserved that carries an increased risk of corruption. And the electronization - not digitalization, because it's hard to get to in this state - just doesn't improve the situation. But the most fundamental fact remains preserved, and that is systemic bias. Similarly, the pirát promised to introduce a single contact point for builders, no need to run up to 40 opinions in the building process. We will also push for other recommendations from the World Bank, claimed by the pirát during the previous term of office. That's not what happened. They did not read well that the World Bank recommended reducing the number of processes and integrating them. But what's much worse is the fact that it doesn't matter if we send something printed or electronically - if we need 49 stamps for it, there'll be 49 opinions that need to run. It will be possible to have 49 corrective measures against them to return the court. It's nice that the applicant gets this information electronically, and that's already happening today thanks to the data box, but no real change. More affordable housing is promised. There's a lot of wannabe-solving going on, like community-building people for themselves. I don't want to take any illusions about this becoming a mass solution that will be the salvation of an absolute shortage of flats on the market. But I assure you, when people find out what process they're going to have to go through, they won't go through collective construction that complicated. So we don't forget another member of the coalition, KDU-ČSL. What did they promise people at the time of the creation of a new building law? There's gonna be one application and one management, which is really not gonna work without a system change. If there are more authorities, more stamps, there will be more requests and more proceedings, yet colleagues from KDU-ČSL know that. Just as the recodification of building law before its destruction went in the mouth of other promises made by fellow Christian Democrats, that is, that the citizen is not here to be obliged to orientate himself, whether he has to deal with his cause in a community with an extended scope, or in a municipality with an authorized municipal authority, a municipality of the basic type, or in a municipality with a majority office or elsewhere, that the citizen is to come into contact with the public administration only in one place and that legislation should be clearer and clearer. And now colleagues have no problem supporting the system in which there are actually two systems, and where one allows one way, easier, and others, ordinary and simple citizens, way more complex and longer. "New buildings transform life into a place where we live. They can also contribute to the development of cities and municipalities and cultural life in our country - or they may not. It is therefore important for our society who and according to what rules decide on planned constructions." This is in Arnika's statement, whose demands were also written into the recodification of the construction law under the name Fair, faster, better and easier decision-making of constructions. It's such an interesting and dense material that it would be a shame not to pay attention to it: "Building decisions are often unbearable, causing losses to investors and damaging the quality of the environment for people's lives. The authorities and the courts are making up for the wrong decisions. We consider complex and fragmented rules for the decision-making of constructions and inadequacy of authorities and administrative courts to be the main cause of an unbearable state. In order to ensure genuine public control, transparent and high-quality decision-making, there is a need to alleviate the obstacles which lead the public, municipalities, investors and authorities to bad legislation, its incorrect interpretation or violations. It is therefore necessary, first, to align the approval procedure. The rules governing the approval of buildings need to be unified, clarified and limited to the minimum necessary. Various permits could be combined into one stamp from one office. Procedures for all constructions should be the same, clear and understandable to everyone. It is therefore not right to have special laws for certain types of buildings or for selected construction projects. Secondly, guarantee the public the right to defend the quality of their lives. Some buildings can have a major impact on life in the street, district, village, region or state. The construction of the citizens concerned should therefore have the same rights as the investor. They shall be able to be a full participant in the approval procedure and to request a higher authority or court to examine any errors. Thirdly, to rule on matters, not on formalities. The law is designed to allow authorities and courts to deal with factual points, not merely with the formal correctness of the decision. It does not make the slightest sense for procedural errors to be reviewed, yet it was not possible to resolve clearly material errors. Fourth, make sure the verdict is in effect. The verdict, whatever it is, has to pay. Therefore, it does not make sense for disputes between local people and investors to be settled only after the construction is almost complete. This violates the right to a fair and effective trial and weakens confidence in the rule of law, since even if the court decides that local people were right, there will be no real remedy, and any retroactive remedy harms the owners or users of the building. Fifth, allow courts and authorities to make faster decisions. Frequent delays in authorisation procedures cause continuous changes to the rules and insufficient professional and personnel capacity of the authorities. It is therefore necessary to strengthen them considerably. The State must also strengthen the capacity of administrative courts so that they too can meet the new deadlines and are not a burden." So much Arnika in his approach to building law in the Czech Republic. Moreover, so much for the recodification of building law, for building law in the Czech Republic. The proposal to postpone efficiency must be rejected because it will bring unacceptable chaos and confusion into everything. The separate principle needs to be maintained, in the meantime it is necessary to focus on strengthening in the area of spatial planning for the benefit of cities and municipalities. All of this can be managed without the need to postpone efficiency and thus endanger the interests of the Czech Republic and the hope of its better future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u117	Thank you, Mr Kubík, and your speech raised Mr Bartoš's factual remark. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u118	Thank you. Sorry for the delay, we were discussing a matter concerning the law. I just wanted to react. I don't know if you've had the chance to see the novel yet, but you're basically talking about what's going on here - that we're going to tilt these things into digitalization the way they are, and that's not true. Of course, the law has the changes. It's one stamp, one process, there's an appeal to the entire proceedings, so I don't actually know which version your criticism was linked to. At this point, for the citizen and for the builder, the space remains as it is, even in the case of a special appeal building office. I would like to know when it is presented as an inequality between a common citizen and someone chosen, how many citizens build a road or how many citizens build a complex structure, such as a sewage treatment plant, or buildings that are under a special construction agency regime. I don't think there's any contradiction. It is for these constructions, let's say, of an extreme, regional nature, so to compare it disparately to a construction common to these special constructions - even so, the name of the office is special and appellate - I don't think it is possible. And then I'm not quite sure which version of the bill you read Arnika's statement to, but I don't suppose it was about the last draft he passed with the Supreme Building Authority. I think it might have been during the time the government proposal was here. On the contrary, I have had negative responses from the field of environmental protection, and on the contrary, I have very positive responses to the initiative of the Ministry of Environment, which, as a twin to this law, presents a uniform environmental position, which, on the contrary, integrates and protects all environmental interests. I have no question about it, I just wanted to say because I listened very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u119	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. We will return to the general debate in which Mr Brabec is prepared at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, Madam Secretary, Minister, well, now what Vice Prime Minister Bartoš said to me quite beautifully, we were not agreed on this because a unified environmental position or a uniform environmental permit, if you will, was still created under our government in the Ministry of Environment. Finally, we decided to go the way of even greater integration for one logical reason. I am still convinced that the new building law, as it was presented in its most robust form by our - or by the last - government, has not changed the protection of the values laid down by the Nature and Landscape Act, and that is most important. And I am also very frankly saying that these efforts were, because you can imagine that of course there were plans and opinions of groups that were totally contradictory, because developers wanted to build more quickly, organization of activist, some environmental organisations, they wanted to protect the environment at all costs, including the possibility of entering all proceedings. We know that, but here's the zoning process, the construction process, before the EIA, some decision making. And we've all been going from the beginning - or I'm convinced that at least in the government, we've all wanted to do one thing - that these interests are somehow linked to coordinate, and that wasn't easy. And of course there were pressures on us as well as on the Ministry of the Environment, and great. I have been approached by various groups of course x-times, so if we weren't more willing to try to build faster, I don't want to say build faster at any cost, but build faster. And I am convinced that the Ministry of the Environment has managed to preserve its main objective, i.e. conservation of nature and landscape, even in the previous version or in the current proposal. The fact that the system will be different and integrated does not change the fact that, for example, the landscape character or protected species will still be protected by the Nature and Landscape Protection Act, which the official will have to do - whether formally he sits at the construction office, but will still be the same official - to judge according to the same law, and the Ministry of the Environment was previously, of course, according to our proposal, in the role of a methodological body, that is, who interprets the law and who gives methodological guidelines for individual officials. Just for the record. In practice - and I think that it will also be understandable for you, it in those thousands of pages that are related to it, and of course in hundreds of paragraphs it will be lost, but we are finally after many and many months of debates in dozens of working groups where everyone was represented, even those ecological organisations were there - it was meant to look like that really in the pawnable territories of municipalities, in national parks and protected landscape areas, i.e. where environmental protection is of the highest value, the national park management or the management of the protected landscape area will continue to be determined by the law, not by the construction office, until - and it was also very valuable that the agreement was on this - before so-called regulatory plans were established in the municipalities. The regulatory plan will then, in future, be a document in which national parks and agencies will intervene and approve, and that was very valuable. And that was the agreement that was able to be made, and it was very important that the regulatory plans are very lacking today. And this was such an agreement that really, until they come out, the national park administration or the agency of protected landscape areas will decide on it, i.e. people the same as they are up to now. And then these people will be involved in these regulatory plans, and only when those regulatory plans arise, which was supposed to be a few years, so then the decision-making can eventually move on. And one more comment on the exceptions to the protection of species in the patronizing territories of municipalities, i.e. within the municipalities, to make it very clear, or to cut down trees, which is a very common operation, which is of course also being considered. Of course, both the nature and landscape conservation agency, i.e. the administration of the CHKO, as well as the administration of the national parks, will give the building authorities, the conclusions, comments, but it is really hard to imagine that the official will not adhere to the law on nature and landscape conservation and the expression of these administrations, because this is obviously verifiable, and I stress that the Ministry of the Environment will still have the methodological role there and will also be able to play the role of supreme state oversight, and will therefore, as part of the supreme state oversight, check that the civil servants of the construction offices comply with the applicable law. So, when I sum up, I am really convinced - and believe me, those negotiations were not tens, but hundreds, I follow up on what my colleague Berenika Peštová said, because, of course, she was also very involved in them and was in charge of the Ministry of the Environment, precisely the key section that has fundamental trade unions under it, which are connected with this, whether it be air protection, water protection and other integrated permits - that the existing law, as presented by former Minister Dostálová, did not in any way weaken environmental protection. That some organizations have opposed this in some cases, I think it is clear, because the logical ones always try to balance the balance somewhere in their favor, and vice versa, developers tried to balance, or shift the pendulum, on the other hand, in favor of building - I don't want to say at all costs, but in any case very accelerated. I can say with calm conscience that the Ministry of the Environment, even in my term of office, has tried very hard to defend - and I am also convinced that it has defended - the principle that it can be integrated, can be simplified and accelerated in the preparation of the building procedure, but it can not be resigned to environmental protection. That was our goal from the beginning, not to build fifteen years and not to get those people into a crazy state, those builders, whether companies or builders - the physical citizens, when he really starts building, and only five years later, someone will tell him that he's missing some stamp, which if he knew at the beginning he'd need, he might have behaved completely differently. Regardless of the fact that the chaining - and we all know it well - meant that all those parties - the participants could apply in a chained or repeated manner to those individual proceedings, whether it was the EIA decision or the territorial procedure or the building procedure, and basically the same thing. That's why we told these people to ask, and they're gonna get one stamp. So I want to stress that even a unified environmental permit is not news. It's something that came out of our government, but it's actually another stamp within the warrant. That means it's definitely better than 60 other stamps, but it's no better than one integrated permit, and I think that's the main thing. But it certainly doesn't mean that the Ministry of the Environment would have been on its back before and said, "Do what you want with us, just build quickly, because there is a social demand. I'm sure you didn't. We knew that we were, too, in order not to really prepare for the construction of 13, 15 years, which then really stopped for two years, because we were really on top of it. But we have been convinced and we still believe that it is possible to build efficiently, faster, and therefore cheaper for the builder, and yet the environmental protection need not be weakened. And that is what our version of the novel was about as Mrs. former Minister Dostálová presented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Vrána is entered into the debate in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u122	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to touch on this issue in the context of systemic bias in the framework of the building procedure. The whole process, as Mrs Dostálová's recodification is now set, will be transparent, public, online with digital footprint, with the possibility of public control. This is a crucial moment in the fight against corruption in this area. The reduction of corruption potential will also be ensured through the professionalisation of civil servants of the construction offices, with which they would go hand in hand to increase their salaries and eliminate pay inequalities as a result of budgetary changes. The reduction of corruption potential will also occur due to the elimination of the risks of bias and concentration of assessment of all aspects of the construction and the impact of the project within a single decision prepared by a competent team of qualified officials. The occasional claim that systemic bias doesn't exist is nonsense. Many examples would be found. These are, for example, the largest transport structures in our state. It is the completion of D1 near Přerov, it is a Prague circuit, a new metro line D or Radlická radiála. The systemic bias, which often ends in court, has an effect on the lives of millions of people who could have used that communication long ago. The separate nature of the current structure of the building administration causes the risk of bias on the part of the authorities. In particular, large transport constructions have so far paralyzed the fact that projects are decided by employees of municipalities who have an interest in the outcome of the construction procedure. These officials, therefore, cannot be completely independent within the current system, even though it is required by law. In the event of suspicion of bias, the agenda must now be taken over by the building office from another territorial self-governing whole. In the worst case, as I mentioned before, the matter ends in court. Systemic bias complicates and blocks the preparation of the most important buildings in the Republic. For example, as I have already mentioned, the completion of D1 in the section Říkovice-Přerov, where the bias of Přerov was stated, and all proceedings including the underlying opinions therefore had to be dealt with by the statutory city of Olomouc. I'd like to stop by. The Earth's children first attacked a change in territorial decision. Due to systemic bias, the entire agenda was transferred to the statutory city of Olomouc and thus delayed the whole proceedings for a year and a half. In mid- 2021, the Children of Earth added another success, attacking the authorisation procedure of about 40 building buildings related to the planned implementation of the last section of the D1 motorway. Once again, the officials of the Olomouc City Council had to take over all the documentation, because the Přerovský, including the mayor, are biased according to the decision of the Regional Authority of the Olomouc Region. Allow me to quote the secretary of our Přerovský magistrate: "The Mayor, who commented on the construction of D1, is interested in being built as quickly as possible. Because he's my superior, he can influence me. And I'm the supervisor and employer of all Magistrate employees, and I could influence them. That's basically systemic bias. We've been there for a change in the zoning decision, and it's delayed for a year and a half. I hope it won't be that long now." This is a completely absurd situation that delays the entire construction, in this case the D1 motorway, not in the order of months, but in the order of years. Another complication, as I spoke with the key constructions, is the Prague Circuit and the D1 towards Běchovice, where the appeal against the territorial decision has to be dealt with due to the systemic bias of the capital of the South Bohemia Region. Another strategic construction, the D3 motorway in the Central Bohemia Region, has to deal with the Pilsen Region in terms of granting exemptions from protected animals and plants. But systemic bias is not just a problem where there is no resistance to construction. Where resistance exists, it is already a system tool for delays and complications in the case of construction. The new building law will eliminate the risk of systemic bias. It is this new building bill from Mrs Dostálová's pen that brings an institutional change that eliminates the risk of objections to systemic bias, that the construction authorities will go to the state and their officials into service, which will ensure their independence and impartiality. In addition, as civil servants who will be managed in a uniform manner, they will indeed be independent of local administration and thus there will be no unnecessary delays that arise in the case of moving the agenda under an independent office. Systemic bias, as I said, really affects the lives of millions of people. Objection within the framework of systemic bias is increasing. The Ministry of Regional Development records an increasing number of cases where it has to decide on the objection to the systemic bias of regional construction offices. In 2018, it was 38 cases; in 2019 it was also 38 cases; in 2020, it was 66, so we can see that the trend is increasing. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that systemic bias within the framework of the construction procedure is not an unusual phenomenon, and I would like to see the elimination of systemic bias, as proposed by Mrs Dostálová, also be transferred to a new adjustment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon, everyone. Before we move on to the next post, I'll load up the apologies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, apologizes today from 12.45 pm to the end of the day for working reasons and apologizes to Mr Ondřej Benešík for working reasons today from 12.20 to 13.50 pm. And one more message, with a replacement card number 26, is voted by Vice-President Jan Skopeček. Now there is another Mr Martin Kolovratník. Mrs Marie Pošarová can then be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u124	Thank you for the space, for the word. The time is almost 14 o'clock, so I promise my colleagues from the coalition and the minister that I will not speak for any time on purpose or purpose. However, I must say that I am pleased with the debate that took place today, especially since I was listening to Mr. Vrána now. That, my colleagues, is precisely the arguments of real knowledge from the terrain, of what is happening not only in the interests of citizens, small builders, but precisely the municipalities, the municipalities that desire and call for large infrastructure buildings to be completed, and where the relations in that territory are as complex as was described by Mr Vrána a little while ago. I want to thank him so much for that. That's what we've been pointing out all along. And I now very briefly - there would be many, many, many, many and many arguments. But as we said, o. k., we respect your idea, we respect that you have a lot of votes to take in the House the way you have decided. I also perceive that Minister Bartoš has brought up the debate this morning by now discussing the law that will shift it, and that we will meet here at those substantive proposals, substantive changes, and we will look for maximum possible penetration. Yet, Minister, this will be the last of my conversions to you, and I will allow myself two questions. One very simple one, if you've ever been a builder, if you've ever asked for anything yourself and went through the Martyrium? I'd like you to let me know your personal experience as an ordinary citizen who was building something. And then maybe I'll try you - even if I'm a little ahead of myself, and I don't want to test you if you say you're leaving your answer for the next debate, maybe I'll understand - ask for some illustration example. When a substantive amendment comes here, when you design a new system in the House, newly modified - infrastructure constructions accelerated mode from 1 July 2023, the other normal buildings old-fashioned, if I can simplify it this way - so if you would give me an example where, for example, when building an apartment building, the municipality will ask, at which office, where the developer, some private company. And maybe even in transport, I'd like to see a village that will build a small bus stop, some small construction for local communication, so if it has the same thing as ŘSD or Railway Administration at some line construction, whether the municipality will be at its municipal office, or whether the municipality will be asking for a special appeal. [[Request]] For the record, I'd like to know. But I repeat, I don't want to test you here, Minister, I'm sure we'll get back to it on the committee and so on. [[13.40 hours]] What I want to say in two minutes. Finally, I have decided to make an amendment to this press, and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate, and I will beg for support, explain to the committee as well. And I'm going to explain very simply, I already told you today. Here last year we adopted the main carrier, the main body of recodification, the then House press 1008, a whole new building law, but we also adopted the second, accompanying press 1009 with a change of all the more than fifty standards. I remind you, the press had over a thousand pages. As we have analyzed - I apologize - you have not tied these two things up, so here I am bringing a relatively short amendment, which, first of all, addresses the amendment in at least an indirect way, today it is Law No. 284/2021 that, in one part, in this amendment, I am dealing with an indirect amendment to this amendment, so that there is no problem of dispute and competence precisely in the authorisation under the component individual special regulations, so that it simply forms itself, first of all. [[coughs]] Secondly, I am trying to adjust the issue of plans with planning contracts at the Associated Specialised and Appellate Building Office. We identify the possible problem of systemic bias, when the municipalities - Mr Vrána spoke about it - expressed their will somewhere in a memorandum, they said that they supported, or that under the condition that there would be some above-standard cooperation with the Ministry of Transport or with the capital of Prague, so that they would agree to bypass, after some long annabasis, so that for these planning contracts, if it was moved to the SOSÚ, so specifically the Board of Appeal, so that the bias would not be. And I want to help in the third time - it was a request for cities and municipalities, so I want to relieve them a little bit, in the sense that we are moving them on to the obligation for municipalities to redo territorial plans, when they are making them into a new uniform standard, so that they wait until the whole new zoning plan, so that they do not have to do the new standard for individual small partial changes. I acknowledge the possible counterargument that those points 2 and 3 could be dealt with by some other amendment only in the substantive amendment, but I was optimistic, I went across the line, I left it all in one House document, in one amendment, and I will ask you to consider it, to assess it on the committee with Mrs Dostálová, and I will ask you for his support. That's all I'm saying. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now, with a point of fact, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u126	He won't let me answer that question I've ever built. I listened to Mr. Babiš here during the last parliamentary term: You didn't build a doghouse, and here you'll be telling me... I was building a garage with my dad 20 years ago, and it wasn't the easiest thing to do. I have to say that after a gentleman came to sway us quite badly, as opposed to the way the garage was drawn in the plan, then we supplemented the slate cladding because it was in the mountains, which was supposedly an obligation - which surprised me a little bit, because the guest house Milano, also known from certain events in the north of Bohemia, where there were two-metre white walls and probably nothing about the landscape, at all the characteristics of the Jizera Mountains. But you know Liberec County, there were terrible things going on in the '90s. We built the garage a lot later, which I was probably - jeez - 20, so maybe the conditions were different. Otherwise, I only wanted a brief question: the builder will ask in the place where he is accustomed. You're the one who asked about the division of ordinary and reserved buildings with different construction offices. This is not our invention, but the difference between ordinary and reserved buildings is part of your amendment. So I think, on the other hand, that there was a consensus on where constructions are being solved, and that buildings that are explicitly listed in connection with the special construction office are going to the special construction office, if I understood the question. But I'd like to keep the debate in the details that part solves what, just the question of when we're going to discuss a substantive amendment that I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u127	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Marie Pošarová is still enrolled in the general debate, and then I have the last application for the general debate, rapporteur Klára Dostálová. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u128	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, it should also be recalled that any revision of the system of public building law and of all related component laws is technically very complicated. What do we have on the table today? What we have on the table is that all these trials are going to be postponed by one year. The Specialised and Appellate Building Office will remain with all processes, which will be the only one effective at 1. 7. 2023. It's really startling that we're talking here about the fact that the new building bill is good for the state, for construction works, but it's not good for the citizen. And I ask, why isn't he good for a citizen? Why is it only good for highway constructions, air constructions, water tanks, gas reservoirs? For reserved buildings as such, which I have just listed, i.e. part of them, should therefore apply the new building law from 1. 7. 2023 with everything the new construction law brings. This means that they would be authorised at first instance by the State Specialised and Appealing Construction Authority, which would itself assess all public interests without the need for binding opinions of the authorities concerned. At the second stage, the appeal would be decided by the Ministry of Regional Development, which should still perform the functions of the Supreme Building Office and which should no longer be annulled and the matter returned to further proceedings, but would have to decide the appeal definitively. I understand this is a very difficult situation, but just imagine the real reality if we really postpone it, how it works. To 1. 7. 2023 The state will operate under the new construction law, the appeal body will be the Ministry of Regional Development. From 1. 7. for the next year the law will be no longer effective for the municipalities - I would really like to ask the lawyers how we can move here according to an ineffective law. But, okay, they say we're gonna bridge it in interpretation, so I'm curious what the courts are gonna do about it. And in that role the Ministry of Regional Development will have as a review body, which means on the one hand it will be an appeal, on the other hand it will be a review. I'd like to raise one more question here. By not giving the petitioner the job and not changing the amendment law, that is, all those component laws, there may be such an absurd situation that the new building law will shift one year, but the amendment law will not change, but the amendment law is that the authorities concerned go to the Supreme Building Office. Where will the builder from 1 go? 7. 2023 for a warrant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u129	I thank the Member and now the last one entered into the general debate, rapporteur Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u130	Thank you for the floor. I am really only very briefly, but given that I have really closely followed the whole debate here today, I really do not think that we have answered the questions that have been raised here. Retroactive activity - something has just come about and we delay the effectiveness of something that has already been created. The amendment law is not settled, the interpretations that we will explain to people that they have where they are used to going through interpretation without having any support in the law. I cannot imagine how the delegation will be paid and so forth, so allow me to propose that this law be rejected as part of my speech. And if it didn't pass at the third reading of the rejection, it would be a return to the recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u131	Thank you, Madame. So these are the proposals that will then be dealt with at third reading. And I can see if anyone else is in general? There is no interest in signing up, so I am ending the general debate. I ask for order, is there interest in the final words now, Minister, rapporteur? [[The voice from the diaper, the rapporteur laughs.]] So, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u132	Thank you. I'm sorry, I just have to respond to what happened here today. I, of course, appreciate the whole debate as rapporteur, but I must say, as rapporteur for this press, that there have been proposals that will be dealt with at third reading, namely a motion for rejection or a proposal for a re-evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u133	Thank you. The Minister is still interested in the final word after the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u134	I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. I think that even for people who may not be as interested in the construction law and have the same speed of construction at heart as we do, but also the availability of housing in the Czech Republic, today's debate was beneficial because we are going to have a debate over a substantive amendment, so on the many questions that have been raised here, or on some arguments that have been raised here, the opponent or opponent can in the meantime find counterarguments. I thank you for going through this general debate with me at second reading and in a factual conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u135	Thank you, too. I note that we have nothing to vote on now, and I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš has applied for the floor with priority rights and then the Member is signed up. Please, Minister, a detailed debate is under way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u136	I, in a detailed debate, refer to the proposal that I have already announced in the opening speech. I propose a reduction between second and third reading to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u137	Thank you. I've marked the proposition. Mr Martin Kolovratník now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u138	Thank you, too. I am applying to the amendment under the number of House document 755. He was already on my side in the general debate, so I won't delay. I'll just say, in the first part, he tries to straighten out our seen disrepansion between the actual shift of the construction law and the change and in the other two parts he specifies relations both for planning contracts and for obligations for municipalities to change territorial plans. So, House Document 755, I'm applying for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-29-ps2021-019-04-002-004.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That is why we have exhausted - I am still looking at applications for a detailed debate - just to be sure. I am ending the debate in detail. Again, for the sake of order, will I ask if there is interest in the final words? Not the Minister, not the rapporteur. From the proposals that have been made, we have a proposal - I will arrange for Members to come to the hall - to shorten the deadline for the third reading to 7 days. We're gathering in the O.R., I'm checking you all out. Please log in again with your identification cards. I repeat, we will now vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 7 days. We all know what we're going to vote on. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal to shorten the deadline? Who's against it? In the vote number 63, 133 Members voted, for a reduction in the deadline was 79, against 54. I'm of the opinion that the deadline has been shortened. We have thus resolved all the voting proposals. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Before we proceed to interrupt this meeting, I would like to thank Chancellor Morávek for his work. It's actually the last time, I think it's appropriate to thank you. [[Members rise and applaud.]] I am now interrupting this 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday, 10 May, until 14 o'clock. I remind you that on Tuesday, May 3, at 10:00 p.m., the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin, and I wish everyone a quiet weekend.
