ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with identification cards. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 51 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, September 12th of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Milada Voborská and a Member of Oldřich Černý. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't. I am opening the vote to identify the verifiers for this meeting, and I ask who is in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 1, 132 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 129, against no one. The proposal has been approved. I note that we are the verifiers of the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Oldřich Černý. Before we go to the 38th meeting, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down, and then I'm gonna give the floor to those who are logged in with priority rights. First of all, Mr Jan Jakob, Mr Tomio Okamura, and then Mr Aleš Juchelka, with the club's opinion. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr President. As with the previous meeting, I honour the agreement of the MPs to speak on the agenda after one representative from the opposition clubs and subsequently Minister Jurečka. I'm downloading my application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I merely specify that Mr Aleš Juchelka is applying with priority rights, not with the club's position. But in front of him, President Tomio Okamura, who here... And the Prime Minister is coming. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the first person to perform for the YES movement is Mr. Juchelka, and I will perform after him. So this was the agreement, so I will give the floor to Mr Juchelek as a representative of the ANO MP, we honor the agreement, and I will come after you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u5	Okay. I will now ask that Mr Aleš Juchelka speak with priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u6	Thank you very much. That was the grémia deal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have opened this special meeting on social issues to convince our honored colleagues that this is an important part of the package to help our citizens, as well as organizations taking care of patients in hospitals or our clients in elderly homes. First, in general. Ceilings will be very expensive thanks to this government, yet...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u7	Ambassador, I apologize for entering into your speech, but the noise in the room is truly enormous. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down, both left and right. Please go to the lobby to discuss. And you, Mr. Ambassador, continue, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u8	Thank you very much. Ceilings will be very expensive thanks to this government, yet high enough, if we are talking about households, and will not solve the problems of low-income households, not only those that are on social benefits. As a result of social reconciliation, a number of measures need to be taken, and it is a pity that this government increases by its measures the number of people dependent on social benefits, even those who do not need to work, are active, rather than taking measures that will not drive them into the system. That is why the housing allowance is a really unbearable obstacle for some - to ask for it. Let's face it, colleagues, it won't get any warmer, the heat season starts, somewhere temperatures in the Czech Republic will not rise above 13 degrees during the coming weekend. The heat plants are starting, yes, we are starting, colleagues. It's not in the dimensions of words anymore, but action comes next. Are we ready for this from a social point of view? Are we ready to start helping? That is why, as an YES movement, we have made several recommendations within the framework of our package of 28 proposals for measures to combat the crisis, where there are social issues in addition to those highly specialised topics. A few months ago, my honored colleagues and I put them in the House in the form of laws and concrete measures. I'll stop by the seniors first. We'll all be one someday. [[There's still noise in the room.]] I'm begging you, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u9	I will ask you, my fellow Members, both Members and Members of the Government, not to disturb the Member in his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u10	I'll stop by the seniors first. [[The speaker is silent because of the interruption.]] I'm terribly sorry, but... Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u11	Please don't shout and continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u12	We'll all be seniors someday. I've met a lot of them lately. There were a lot of them in my MP's office on Monday. They brought their bills, opinions, chicks... For example, I had an elderly woman who died a partner, and the fixation in his name was cancelled by the widow because he was said to be a new client in an energy company. But they have one thing in common. They said that thanks to extraordinary valuations, scissors spread between the low-income seniors and the high-income ones, how they laughed at them on social networks, and how we politicians are often unempathetic and say: However, they have had enough, they had increased pensions several times, it is the only group that has certain. They do, but they can't have any more, they just can't. Families are atomized. Who will help seniors in our society? Fear of a new situation, of this crisis, can only be overcome by communication and simply and easily perceived measures. We can do that. In the new term, we have approved 500 for a raised child, and at the moment we are bringing to the House the adjustment of pensions within the framework of the basic measure and merit so that neither active pensioners, nor those who cannot work, can open scissors between seniors with extraordinary valorisations. Retirement deserves a slight adjustment. Soon the ANO movement will put it in the House as a bill amendment. Also here in the House we have an extraordinary 6,000 for seniors. In inflation 17 percent and in the uncertainty that is coming this winter, the government should have approved and paid it off long ago. It's one of the press that I think deserves your attention and support. Inflation jumped 17.5 percent and food by tens of percent, meat by 22, oil by 59, butter by 55, fruit, bread - ask the nonprofits, what challenges, questions and despair they face, how they call them to call centers. This is indirectly related to the housing allowance. Normal housing costs are no longer enough. I know the government will change them next week, and we have calculated the increase in the ANO movement by a similar amount of CZK 2,500 to CZK 4,500. But it should have come a long time ago, and who helps quickly, twice helps. If these measures are not taken in time, and especially with some courage, it can hurt, even be counterproductive. Thanks to increased normalizations, the number of those who apply will increase, of course, not just from seniors. The increase of this amount will burden the budget by about CZK 2 billion, which will be paid for the housing allowance. Low-income households, and some young families who have young children, will reach the housing allowance, but let's face it: is it dignified for seniors who have worked 43, 45 years, to go to the employment office or to try to handle electronic submissions in 70 or more years? Couldn't we have taken any precautions before our active families ended up on welfare? I'm sure they do - make arrangements to simply avoid the arc of the office of work and not feel that they have to ask for something when they work. [[17.40 hours]] A whole series of our actions in the past government have gone outside the employment office. As early as November and December last year, we have forgiven VAT and, for example, abolished the renewable energy charge on invoices so that we do not drive people into the batch system. But so be it, it is the policy of this government, and we will always vote in favour of things that will help people in this situation. All these benefits are paid by the Labour Office. On Wednesday, on the Social Policy Committee, we spent two hours discussing the desperate situation at the employment offices, their underfinancing, staff loss, and especially since January, the increase in the agenda that has led to the collapse of this office, and that we need them damn well at the moment. Since the beginning of the year, he has paid a new parental allowance, a housing allowance, a humanitarian benefit of 5 000, a one-off contribution of 5 000 per child, a solidarity contribution of accommodation, child allowances and so on. The petition they have now created and are now signing it in mass describes how digitization works, how it adds work to them. And I'm going to quote three points here from this five. Firstly, workers and reporters at the employment offices themselves say: "We draw attention to the fact that the government of the Czech Republic does not inform the public truthfully in order to create the impression of adequate protection of citizens against the effects of the energy, war and inflationary crisis. There is a picture of sufficient social instruments that citizens can use, but which is not real and does not correspond to the current legislative setting of these benefits." They also say in the second point: "We refuse to be exposed to the high risk of negative reactions from clients who turn their dissatisfaction with unconfessed or low levels of claimed benefit against employees who only comply with valid legislation and are blamed for ignorance, unwillingness and laziness. We appeal to the Government, especially to Minister Jurečka, to ensure sufficient control of the supporting documents for the payment of non-insurable social benefits." They also say: "We insist that the government of the Czech Republic be truthfully informed about the real functioning of digitization in the benefits paid by the employment office. The public must know that only the client's application is on-line, all the other process depends on the physical processing of the staff of the employment office, for which the processing of these benefits is more difficult than for the benefits applied for in the standard way, i.e. in person at the workplaces of the employment office." And so on and so forth, I could keep you informed. It's a total of ten points here for this petition. And I firmly believe that, as has been said in the Committee on Social Policy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will do something about it. But it's a true image and a true mirror of what's happening at the office of work at the moment, and it's not the distorted image in the crooked mirror that some politicians are telling us how beautifully it works, how simple and great it all is, and that everyone can actually apply for benefits from the digitalisation point of view. Another suggestion is an increase in parental contribution. This government has only allowed its earlier consumption. Thus, those who had completed it earlier ended up on welfare benefits and thus on the costs of this state. We pointed out that the rate of draw without changing the level of the parent is no way. I will now quote precisely from the opposing opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the basis of the explanatory report that we have given. So I quote, "The government doesn't consider valorizing one benefit of state social support as a systemic measure. By increasing this amount, i.e. by parental contribution and subsequent valorisation mechanism, the support of parents with children under four years of age would occur and continue. On the contrary, the support of careless children aged between four and 26 years, which is saturated only with child allowance, following a family intake test, would be inadequately underestimated and this gap would continue to deepen." It is a pity that this government did not adhere to this explanatory report, which speaks of dependent children under the age of 26 when it paid the 500 000 contribution only to children under the age of 18. And now, according to Minister Jurečka, the Minister will go to the government with a proposal to raise the parenting to the government. Another of our proposals proposed by the YES movement, which are in the House and which this government is implementing. It's great, so he just didn't say when the government's gonna be here with the raise of a parent and how much it's gonna be. But we can discuss it today and speed it up, because today the pirát have announced an increase in parental allowance. So I guess it's the maybe government proposal, I presume. However, everything is once again only within the limits of promises, and the only one who has the law in the House, who means it, is us in opposition. And now all of a sudden, this government wants him, too, after the opposition's pressure. So there's nothing easier than taking our proposal, discussing it today at first reading. We're open to discussing the amount of increase in the parental contribution, we're proposing 400,000, but let's have some fun. The carrier is already in the House, and you just have to agree on one changeling, on the same amount. Let's not just let young active families fall and stick them in the dosage system. Maybe the booby-booby-booby-booby-booby-booby-booby-booby-booy thing will do. Speaking of families, I heard that people who have mortgages should be helped. So I hope that only temporarily, and no one knows what model is being prepared. I know that my colleague, ex-minister Klára Dostálová, left a law at the Ministry of Regional Development to deal with it, just take it. But apart from that promise from a few weeks ago, I didn't hear anything more specific. So what exactly does it look like I'm asking? I just hope that we won't be dealing with this through the social supply system. This would indeed be counterproductive, and this is certainly not what this social supply system is meant to serve. If we look at the third law of our Trinity, it really concerns the most endangered, disabled. I have been appealing here for several months to Minister Jurečka to raise the mobility allowance with a simple amendment. In the end, it happened, but we don't have it here in the House yet, and you promise to raise it from the beginning of September or October. I quote: "We are preparing an amendment to the law so that we can increase the mobility allowance either from 1 September or from 1 October. We will see how fast we will be in the legislative process," said Minister Jurečka for Czech Radio on 3 July. Since September we will certainly not make it, October is at the limit possible, and only if you submit it in an accelerated procedure at first reading. But we will not be able to make amendments, but we want to. For example, the electricity for the breathers will fall out in an accelerated discussion because we will not be able to give our amendment. Why? What's taking so long with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs that you can't even present a little novel after all your promises? It's just too late. We would suggest that the mobility contribution be renamed a mobility contribution and a mobility-related energy contribution. It's oxygen therapy right now. These users cannot do without support for them life instruments, or at least 12 hours a day or more. Some of them are also connected to the device 24 hours seven days a week. In addition, electric air humidifiers, air purifiers, mucus exhausters, and other auxiliary devices that allow them to move, breathe and thus move must often be used. The power consumption of these devices is within a narrow range of about 300 watts, and if your promise that you want it from 1 October is true, this promise either falls or simply these users here have bad luck with these vital devices. Why? Because it's too late. You know, and this is actually the problem of some of the members of this government - I really mean helping, i.e. really helping, without any politics. Today, I put on a sweater, and you stupidly politicized it, as well as your official government communication for CZK 24 million in this crisis is ridiculous to people, like some of your tying videos that seem to have fallen out of the previous regime. That is why, to begin with, I want to tell all citizens that we know that they have enough sense to adapt their behavior, just like a hundred times before, to the crises that happened to us at the flood, at the hurricane, at the refugee crisis, when no one told them, not to raise them what to do. They just saw it coming. We're adults. Therefore, even today, dear citizens, if you do not take a sweater, you will not be automatically, as some government politicians do, stigmatized as Russian trolls, unless you turn the thermostat to the right, does not mean that you support Putin. Don't let those of you who vote for the current coalition or us. [[17.50 hours]] The most insidious thing about this communication is that someone's always trying to suggest it to us, label it, dirty it. This communication divides society, and that is what we need least of all at the moment. I mean, and that's why I trust everything we've been through in the crisis that we can do this because we realize that it's simply a need, nothing more, nothing less. We all have to save money. But we must help some because social reconciliation and some kind of volunteering are an important part of any crisis and the state must not avoid it. Social peace may be needed by all of us, even though it feels young, strong and healthy at the moment. Social reconciliation is an important part of democracy and the values we trust. If we break social reconciliation by stigmatizing and labeling, we will also break the brittleness of our democracy, and that is what we wish for the least! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Tomio Okamura will now speak with priority right and Minister Marian Jurečka will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u14	Of course, esteemed colleagues, fellow Members, the SPD Parliamentary Club will support the agenda for this extraordinary meeting, because we consider it extremely important that the topics and proposals which are part of it should be discussed and voted urgently. After all, the bills are very similar to those submitted by the SPD movement here in the House shortly after the elections, whose discussion is just the government coalition of the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates in the long term and refuses to be discussed. These are proposals to help people in the social field. Thus, the government clearly demonstrates its completely antisocial character, because it is a law aimed at rapid and effective assistance to the most vulnerable social groups of our citizens. As regards the individual points of the proposed agenda for this meeting, the SPD supports the proposal to pay a one-off contribution to all pensioners of CZK 6 000. Our movement supports seniors in the long run and consistently. We have always supported any extraordinary remuneration of pensions here in the House, while representatives of the parties of the current government coalition have very often voted against raising pensions, last summer. And that needs to be remembered very loudly. So the parties of the current government five-calice voted against raising pensions, yes, it was last summer, and vice versa, the SPD voted to increase pensions. But the very poor social situation of our old-age and disabled pensioners, and also as regards pensions as such, i.e. widows' pensions, widows' and orphans' pensions, will by far not solve this one-off contribution, however necessary and necessary. There is a need for much deeper changes in the pension system, the SPD is prepared and presented here in the form of bills. In particular, it is necessary to help low-income pensioners, tens of thousands of citizens who, after an honest life's work, must literally live with monthly incomes below 15 000, but often below CZK 10,000. You can't live off of that! It is a huge debt to all the political governments that they have let the situation go this far. Therefore, the SPD has submitted a proposal for a minimum and regularly validated pension law at the level of current minimum wage for all citizens who comply with statutory pension requirements. Above this basic amount, pensions would, of course, be paid further on merit according to previous working income and length of insurance periods. Furthermore, under the SPD, we have submitted a bill to increase the basic pension component, which is the same for all their beneficiaries, from the current 10 to 13 percent average wage. This would therefore be an increase of about CZK 1,800 per month, which would help the low-income pensioners in particular. And this logically follows up with the proposal to adjust unfair settings by valorizing pensions that are once again damaging low-income pensioners, because by increasing the equally high percentage of the pension by a certain percentage of the pension, which harms the low-income pensioners, and at the same time, it affects everyone equally. Therefore, even the valuation of pensions must, in our opinion, be done by increasing pensions to all by the same nominal amount, to all pension recipients. That means the SPD is promoting an increase to all of the same amounts, not the same percentage. The next item on the agenda of this House meeting on social affairs - called by the opposition - is to increase parental contribution, which is, of course, supported by our movement over the long term, and we have to present our own bill containing the obligation to regularly valorise this contribution depending on inflation growth. But even in the area of helping families with children, we need to go much further, and our programming and legislative proposals are doing exactly that. On the one hand, it is an increase and regular valorisation of other social aids, in particular the addition to children and childbirth for working parents. In this context, I would like to remind you that our Member, Lucia Šafránková, has succeeded in promoting an increase in child allowances for working parents during the last parliamentary term, so that they have an annual amount of CZK 6 000 more than those who do not work in the long term, even if they can and do not look for work. So here I would like to stress this, it was the SPD proposal and it went through the last parliamentary term, even though we were in opposition. But tax changes are essential for our working families with careless children, our three amendments to the Income Tax Act, which include increasing the tax credit to the taxpayer, to the wife and husband, and to the working disabled at all three levels, as well as to the working students, and a significant increase in tax advantage to dependent and carefree children. The approval of this proposal would bring our working families tens of thousands of crowns a year more to their net income. And this set includes our proposal that access to tax bonuses should not be unreasonablely conditional on the minimum amount of monthly or annual income, which is very damaging to low-income employees, especially single mothers on part-time jobs or labour agreements and work activities. By the same proposal, we also want to allow the SPD to shift tax discounts into a tax bonus, as is the case with tax advantages on children. This does not yet allow the law for tax discounts, and it is a great discrimination against low-income workers, who will never feel the greatest increase in tax reductions on their income without adopting this adjustment. By the way, this measure is also supported by the National Economic Council of the Government. So these are the specific programming ideas of the SPD in the area of family policy, supported by the bills already tabled by us, and, of course, the government coalition is blocking it and does not offer the citizens needed anything. As far as the third proposed point of this opposition is concerned, the SPD will, of course, support an increase in the mobility allowance for disabled citizens, which has not increased for about ten years, and for some of the disabled, holders of ZTP/P licences, it is even nominally lower - not relatively, but in an absolute number than it was in 2012, than those contributions were reduced by the then ODS government, TOP 09 and Public Affairs. The Purple Government is continuing to follow up on these predecessors in its sociality and, like all previous points, this amendment of the law, the increase of this contribution, which the SPD proposed here a long time ago. But as far as our disabled fellow citizens are concerned, it is also not just this one regulation of the relevant law. Above all, it is necessary to increase the so-called contribution to care for disabled citizens dependent on helping and caring for others in home care. These contributions are incredibly low and are far from sufficient to obtain the necessary assistance services for these persons, especially after this year's price increase. For example, persons in the first degree of addiction, i.e. those who do not manage four basic needs of life, receive only CZK 880 per month on this allowance. What will they buy and what assistance services at today's prices? What can they get, and what can be the quality of the lives of these needy citizens for this amount? But Petr Fiala's government doesn't care. [[18.00 hours]] Let me just remind you that in spring, when the budget prepared by Babišův's government was revised, the government of Petr Fiala withdrew from the budget item for this contribution of CZK 1 billion. That's really shameful. We have, of course, submitted this bill for a significant increase in the care allowance almost one year ago, but that is not the end of it. It is still necessary to reconsider the setting of disability pensions in this area. Persons, for example, in the third degree of invalidity, who are objectively unable to increase their income for health reasons and who are dependent only on disability pensions must have the right to an income from which a decent living is necessary. [[Possibly?]] This is not really possible with pensions below 15 000 or 10,000 crowns. Is the Fialův government doing something about it? Did she make any suggestions or at least prepare them? No, a big zero again. In this regard, the government did not send any signal, and Minister Jurečka for KDU-ČSL is inactive. There's nothing here, okay? Not words, but actions, I say, there's nothing here. According to the results of the survey of the project Life for unpaid PAQ Research, the number of households with income below the poverty line increased from 9 percent at the end of 2021 to 17 percent at the moment, i.e. by almost half. Yes, it is under Petr Fiala's rule, more and more people are getting below the poverty line, or if I say it simply, Petr Fiala's government is throwing more hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Czech citizens into poverty. The most vulnerable are independent seniors, singles and singles. According to this research, each sixth Czech household is therefore income poor. Another 16 percent of Czech households have low incomes and savings that last for a maximum of one month. We're already on a third of the households. In the case of single-living seniors, income poverty has even increased by 40 percentage points since November 2021. Furthermore, research shows that 43 percent of single-living seniors currently live in income poverty, about half of them living alone. Literally unsustainable is the situation of single parents. At least half of them are at risk of falling into poverty, and this is an unacceptable threat to the standard of living, the quality of life, the development of tens of thousands of children. There's nothing to wait for for a day, but the government is always waiting. The server List has published several sad stories of single mothers in recent days, where it is based mainly on the documentation of the Free Mothers Club, which helps single mothers. I quote: "The current crisis is a headless sleigh that, due to the increase in basic cost of living, affects every single person, crushes young, old, from towns and villages," says the founder of this organization, Dana Pavlousková. "Now I have an extremely difficult time, sometimes I wake up at night and go to the balcony to cry. I am afraid of what will happen and if I can do it," explains the long-term stress about how to feed the family, one of the single mothers. Another quote from this lady: "The fathers of children send nourishment irregularly, putting me into great uncertainty, because I do not know if I can ask for help in material distress or not," she describes. This lady, among other things, cares for a seven - year - old daughter suffering from schizophrenia. Five members of their family live on a housing estate in a 1+1 panel apartment of 35 square meters. After deduction of the housing costs, this lady will have 5,500 thousand crowns left. It is purely mathematically about 40 crowns per person per day. "We wouldn't have anything to eat or live in without the help of the Free Mothers' Club," sums up the lady, "we have meat about twice a month. There are days when I don't eat alone so that children have enough," he says. There are hundreds of such cases, and many of them know, for example, our Member, Mr Šafránková, who does this in our country from her parliamentary work. The data from the mentioned research project Česko 2022 Life in unpaid society shows that 60 percent of singles with children after payment of all monthly expenditures have nothing left or have to go to a minus, which is 23 percent more than it was in autumn. The survey further shows that the savings for the singles have decreased from CZK 3,200 to CZK 660. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the SPD will, of course, support the agenda of this opposition meeting and all the bills that are its contents, and, of course, we will continue to fight to push through all the other social policy proposals that I have briefly presented here which the Fialův and Social Government is blocking. It is shameful how this government has aggravated the social situation of millions of our citizens over a relatively short period of time, and some social groups have already led directly to poverty and to the brink of social and existential distress. If for nothing else, this government deserves to leave in any case. The SPD movement will certainly not give up or give up fighting for the rights of decent and working people in social distress. Fair and motivated social policy is one of the fundamental pillars of our programme and of our prime public interest, and we have a clear and sophisticated solution in the form of already-finished bills, as I have clearly demonstrated here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, too. President Marian Jurečka is now registered with priority rights. I'll read the apologies in the meantime. Today she apologizes from 16 to 17 a.m. and from 17 to 17.30 for working reasons of Mrs Helena Válková, further apologizes from 17 a.m. for working reasons Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, colleagues, I have listened carefully to both of my previous speakers here, and I must say that if I had not been sitting here in the last parliamentary term, I would have felt that the previous government of the coalition YES, the ČSSD, supported by the communists, had to do a truly amazing piece of work for the social area to improve the conditions within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because of what Mr Juchelka said, it sounded like they really did the best possible, I recall at a time when we had significant economic growth at least in the first two years of that government. And we were here as colleagues, representatives of the opposition, at the time, especially colleague Vít Kaňkovský, Pavla Golasowská, and we presented a number of proposals, which were about, for example, repeatedly increasing the care allowance, we also submitted proposals for raising the parent's parent's degree or also for adjusting the parent's parent's degree, when at that time you excluded part of your parents from achieving that form of assistance when it increased. For example, we have repeatedly put in place a proposal for a discount on children, which has passed only completely in the final of the last parliamentary term rather coincidentally, that a part of ČSSD colleagues eventually joined it. But you guys were giving the answer to all these things back then that you didn't vote for it. You didn't vote because the finance secretary at the time said, "No, it's impossible to finance, we won't support it, and so on. You're coming in today and you're betting one proposition at a time. And I, when I had your President Andrej Babiš's proposals calculated, and his proposals, which he has referred to in recent months, would mean that the deficit for next year would only be burdened with the proposals of more than CZK 550 billion. I think we really need to make it clear here about what's going on here on your part, and we need to say in such a critical situation what needs to be done by the state. The state is not to layer one area measure in a row, one measure at a time, but to try to take the most appropriate measures. If it is sometimes limited in terms of the speed of implementation and, for example, technical possibilities, yes, then we also go to horizontal measures such as ceilinging, but still within the social system as well as myself and for the policy I want to defend, and I want to defend it not only now, but once in relation to my children and grandchildren, as well as in terms of expenditure, I am trying to make targeted measures. And if I take a specific list of what we've done this year in about 9.5 months, that's quite a lot. [[18.10 hours]] It was said here that the government was doing nothing. It sounded repeatedly here, it's a lie, and I have to define myself on specific facts. At the beginning of January we made an increase in the normality of the housing allowance, very significant. During the previous government, the standard ceiling was 50 per cent of the applicants applying for housing aid. To date, it only limits about 30 percent. On Wednesday, the government is going to have another increase in the standardizations, which will significantly shift it, in particular, to help single and two-member households, which today reduces the standardization, significantly. So an increase in normalities twice this year. This year we increased the life and existential minimum twice, both on 1 April and 1 July. This means, by this increase, we are helping to widen the range of people, or valorisation, for about another nine types of social support benefits. The circle of these people has spread to about 400,000 people today. A package has been adopted for disabled people, which not only concerns the increased mobility allowance mentioned here, which is already delivered here, the contribution and the draft amendment of the law is in the House, but we do not just modify the increase in mobility allowance, but we do there also make adjustments to other important things, such as raising limits on household equipment by platforms for people who are handicapped, there are limited mobility options, there is also an increase in the support of people who need a special aid or people who are on special dietary restrictions. So the law goes beyond what you originally put forward. You have focused only on mobility, but we still remember other important things that need to be realized. We have done since 1 July and together with the opposition - I thank you for this - an amendment to the Act on State Social Support and we have extended the possibilities of so-called emergency immediate assistance, which may now be able to help people who are disabled and have specific energy-intensive aids. We know how to cover those in emergency aid. We are also in a situation where we have corrected the mistake that has happened here, this is the support of foster parents, when more than 10,000 foster parents suddenly find themselves in a very difficult situation since 1 January. We fixed that, too, and we changed it. And we are also trying to treat the social service providers in a very fair and fair manner, when we have responded quite clearly to this year's increase in costs after 1 March as a result of the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis. We have entered into a fair financing of CZK 3.2 billion. So there are many things that have been done in this state's addressable social policy, they are happening now during the autumn and we are also counting on the things that will happen from 1 January. I remind you of another important measure - support for parents, single families, single parents, 5,000 per child. More than a million children already have paid for it, so even here the administration runs and I cannot agree with what has been said here that digitalization does not work. The citation from the petition simply does not reflect the state of reality, because - and you heard it yesterday on the Social Committee - today over 85 percent of the requests for a humanitarian dose run digitally, the complete dose of solidarity contribution for a solidarity household runs digitally, and today we have more than 20,000 requests running digitally as part of the housing allowance. It's a fully digital process with the solidarity and humanitarian benefits, nobody's printing anything, nobody's touching anything, it's really going without personnel intervention. Yes, with the housing allowance, it allows us to process the application at any other workplace within the Czech Republic, and we can relieve overloaded workplaces like here in Prague. I do not underestimate the situation at the Labour Office and repeatedly in my performances - and I say this today - thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have worked at the Labour Office in a difficult environment in the last difficult months, I appreciate their work and I also take steps to appreciate the work economically and financially. Even you, members of the Social Committee, have seen that the average salary of this year will rise very significantly, exceeding the covido two years. The average amount of remuneration for the employment office will reach CZK 51 000 this year. I try really and economically to appreciate the commitment of those people, the fact that they do overtime, the fact that some people do weekends. And we're also taking steps to distribute work from those overloaded workplaces to those that aren't so burdened. So the government responds to these things and we are aware that this is not a simple period. And I say again here - thank you, and I appreciate the way these people handle it. There were repeatedly mentioned several times people who are seniors who are disabled pensioners and so on. This year we have three pension valorisations, three statutory pension valorizations, and we are facing further valorisations in January. The situation shifts significantly because when we look at the value that reflects the average income in this country relative to the average wage, we get to 46,9 percent on 1 January. We started at the beginning of that year at 41 percent. We will get to the highest value of pensions against the average wage in this country since 1991. I'm not saying that there aren't groups of seniors or disabled pensioners who need to be helped, addressed, targeted, but it needs to be realized that the valorisation scheme that is here today, from vulnerable groups to seniors, is set very, very openly against the eaters of different pensions. And it is also necessary to say, from 1 January, especially for low-income pensioners, which are very often women, will pay CZK 500 a month. 500 crowns a month a woman who raised a child gets granted automatically. If it was a man, he has the opportunity from September to apply if he was the one who mostly raised the child to his age. So there are concrete steps in which the government responds to the situation. We know that it is difficult, that it is not simple, but also how we open up client opportunities to receive social support, it is intended that no one be stigmatized, that they have to go to the employment office. There's a lot to talk about today, really, from home thanks to digital services. I don't want to prolong it anymore, because we know we have to continue in another meeting, but I thought it fair to say also what steps are going on here, which steps are going on in the past, for example, Sundays, which proposals have been here in the past and were not supported by those who are calling for it today, but when they could raise their hand, they didn't raise their hand for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Aleš Juchelka is still applying with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u18	Thank you very much. I'm having so much fun with this place, really. Minister, we spent two hours on the Social Policy Committee discussing the miserable situation at the employment offices, and you're going to say that digitalization works. So I'm going to read you another point from that petition, which, extremely acutely, was quickly put together by the reporters at the Labor Offices. I quote: "We insist that all changes concerning the agenda of the Labour Office be sufficiently prepared and tested. It is unacceptable for employees not to have adequate programming settings available at the latest on the day on which the change occurs. It is common practice that the programme is updated several weeks apart. Until then, the staff cannot process the applications and this will prolong the administrative procedure. Workers are subsequently exposed to extreme working stress and pressure from clients." It's written by your employees who are so happy with you. If I take it from the back, I appeal to all the officials who are at the employment offices. Please e-mail us all who will receive 51,000 as a reward this year. Really write to us, I'm really curious myself. As for the previous government, I have been here in the Chamber of Deputies, and from a social point of view, a number of great things have happened here. So: We raised the parent from 220 to 300,000 crowns. My amendment was even the one that said that everyone who had a younger child in the family would have the parent paid and that it would not be a benefit to parents, but a benefit to the child. We supported 500 crowns per child - together with you, of course, so don't say it's just your job because it's not. [[18.20 hours]] As far as normal is concerned, we're not saying you shouldn't raise them. We say that it is terribly late, that this government is breathing down all the inflation, crises, energy, prices that are rising, it does not react in any flexible way like other governments around the Czech Republic within the European Union. As far as 28 measures are concerned, Minister, do not lie here. It's not 550 billion, it's much less, of course. But we don't know what to do anymore. We're offering you a big tray of canapes, and you can pick out what you need in the social package. Of course, I'm not saying you're not doing anything, but you caress everything beautifully so it's not too much, you don't actually do it across the board, you just don't have the courage, something really to do here in this. You say 550 billion, I say less, but you don't mind throwing out 130 billion for all those who produce electricity, that you simply dissolve 130 billion, instead of helping with energy prices, fuel prices, and food prices for all those who really need it. That's okay with you. This doesn't bother you! So I'm asking you so much not to put it in my mouth, because you don't like it either, what I didn't say, because I supported you in a lot of things, of course. But I'm saying that what we support you in, and as opposition to the future, we will be, is very late, terribly late, and you know it. And why are you doing this so late? Because this government simply lacks courage. You don't have the balls to kick it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-038-01-000-000.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, since I do not see anyone else registered with the priority right, I will continue to engage, I will call on the rest of my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. And now we will proceed to the 38th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you to re-registration. The number has settled. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 38th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 2, 152 Members and Members signed in for 73, against 76. The motion was denied. The agenda has not been approved and this meeting is adjourned. I am now declaring a five-minute break, then we will return to the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
