ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 57/2022 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 /German press 284/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. I beg you, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would like to briefly present the main amendments to the State Budget Act, which includes this draft amendment to the State Budget for this year. The reasons for overdebting are fairly clear and I think that understandable: the effects of the ongoing war conflict in Ukraine, the consequences of which were not known at the time of the budget for 2022, the increase in the population's living costs caused by both inflation and high energy prices, the response to the energy crisis or the provision of strategic resources and the adjustment of the revenue side of the budget resulting from the current cash flow as at 30. 6. this year, and qualified forecasts on how tax performance will take place by the end of this year. The state budget in this amendment envisages total revenue of CZK 1 trillion 678.3 billion. This means an increase of 65 billion on the revenue side and expenditure of 2 trillion 8.3 billion, which is an increase of 118.15 billion. The state budget deficit will thus rise by 50 billion to the proposed 330 billion. Some information on increased income. Overall, it is CZK 65 billion and this includes, after analysing and evaluating the tax performance for the first half, an increase in VAT by 25.2 billion, an increase in corporate tax of 9.2 billion, an increase in personal income tax by 10.2 billion, an increase in gambling tax by 0.8 billion. But at the same time it contains a reduction in excise income from mineral oils by CZK 3.8 billion. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health chapter will reduce income of 4,9 billion due to set payment principles with health insurance companies and lower than expected interest of insured persons for vaccination against covid-19. At the same time, after analysing and evaluating the first half of the increase in social security contributions and contribution to state employment policy by CZK 9 billion. These are the main changes on the revenue side. And now, the main changes on the expenditure side - again, I recall, revenue is increasing by 65 billion. Strengthening social expenditure as a result of rising inflation, increasing energy prices, including the second extraordinary valuation of pensions, a total of CZK 29 billion, strengthening energy security areas is an amount of CZK 30.3 billion, so only these two items are CZK 59 billion. Increase in expenditure related to covid-19 - 4.4 billion. The increase in expenditure related to the crisis in Ukraine and the war conflict in Ukraine by 21 billion, which, by the way, is roughly not half the amount against the original estimates we made at the beginning of March, when the unsubs were too many. Furthermore, unfortunately, expenditure on government debt management is increasing by 4 billion. We are increasing EGAP's core capital to help Czech companies that have been operating or operating in Ukraine. [[Czech companies?]] It is there - because there are good purchases for Prague circuit, road circuit around Prague - so we are strengthening the amount needed for purchases by 800 million crowns. We increase the state's payments to public health insurance because of the fact that refugees from Ukraine have become state insured, so by 1.4 billion crowns. We are financing an old debt of CZK 570 million from film incentives. We're increasing water spending by CZK 500 million. We are releasing money for the reconstruction of the Kunratice Police and for the purchase of vehicles for the Police of the Czech Republic totalling 1.5 billion overall, and we are also increasing the government's budget reserve for other unexpected expenditures by 7.4 billion, so a total of 115 billion expenditures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u3	I also thank you, and now there is room for the rapporteur's word, but since we are at first reading, we need to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, which is announced. Well, I'm just gonna fast-track, call my coworkers, my coworkers to the ballroom. The point is that Mr Bernard is excused, and we must vote at first reading to change the rapporteur. So I, my colleagues - the numbers are dropping - so I am opening the vote on the rapporteur's change at first reading. Who is the rapporteur for Mr Miloš Nový to change? Who's against it? The number 34 vote was 155 votes in favour of 107, against 0, or the rapporteur's amendment was approved. And I can now ask the Member to present the opening words of the rapporteur for the first reading at the counter. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me to speak as the apologised chairman of the budget committee, Mr Josef Bernard, as part of the first reading of the proposal to amend the State Budget Act for 2022. The draft amendment on the State Budget for 2022 was submitted by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies on 17 August this year. The envisaged change of law is based on the need to respond to unforeseen events, including the conflict of war in Ukraine, the deepening energy crisis and continued falling inflation. All these events are logically negatively reflected in the development of public finances, which Stanjura explained in detail in the previous speech and explained by the Minister of Finance. In my reporting report, I would briefly repeat the basic parameters of the amendment. The planned revenue of the state budget is CZK 1 trillion 678 billion, which represents an increase of CZK 65 billion. The estimated expenditure of the state budget is CZK 2 trillion 8 billion, which represents an increase of CZK 115 billion. The figures show an increase in the deficit of CZK 50 billion to a total of CZK 330 billion. The largest part of the increased income consists of tax revenues of CZK 41 billion, followed by non-tax revenues of CZK 14.4 billion and social security contributions and a contribution to the state employment policy of CZK 9 billion. The largest part of the expenditure increased goes to Chapter 398, the General Treasury Administration, it is CZK 52,6 billion, and further to Chapter 313, which is made up of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is about 26 billion crowns. From the position of rapporteur, I recommend that the Act on the State Budget for 2022 be amended to second reading. At the same time, I assume that the House will also agree with its commandment to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u5	Thank you. I will read again in the meantime the apology, namely the apology of Prime Minister Petr Fiala until 11.30 hours for work reasons and Minister Vít Rakušan from 12 to 23.59 hours for work reasons. And I am now opening up a general debate in which I have signed up in writing with the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš's priority right. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u6	Madam honourable Members, I would like to highlight a few things concerning the Ministry of Regional Development in relation to the State Budget amendment for 2022, especially because, although we have discussed other circumstances here and when we are talking about the government's trust, there have also been reservations that we are not the right partner, that municipalities have problems with energy and that even from the state budget and the Ministry of Regional Development does not think about them, they do not try to fulfil their tasks within this year. Therefore, I would just like to say a few things in the proposal for this amendment concerning the Ministry of Regional Development and which have direct implications for municipalities and partners in the region. We took over the budget for 2022, except for unused expenditure, no money was calculated under the MMR, no funding for national subsidy programmes provided by the Ministry of Regional Development as standard, in which it helps cities and municipalities. The only exception, perhaps, was funding for the Mountain Service. And in the framework of this amendment, even after agreement with the government, the Ministry of Regional Development is asking for an increase of CZK 2.75 billion. [[10.00 hours]] In short, I would like to inform you of how we intend to deal with these funds, especially because the partners in the municipalities, the management of the municipalities and the people living in them are currently affected by the crisis, and how we are trying to help them in this context. I consider this to be very important, because it is the national programmes to which the bulk of money is heading that are crucial for the implementation of the necessary projects, and even in the current situation, given the energy issue, that the small municipalities should be supported in energy savings, which, of course, are not able to finance from their own budgets. I would also like to emphasise, in my view, the very important development of the tourism infrastructure, which is the sector that has been most affected in the pandemic of covid and also in connection with the Russian war in Ukraine. So only quickly and clearly: we want to give CZK 2.55 billion to municipalities and cities for national subsidy programmes, because there is still very high demand on the part of applicants this year. We want to support, in particular, from the newly approved funds, the requests submitted to the Ministry in the challenges of the past, but given that I mentioned that the previous government had not left allocation in the draft budget, could not be met and demand was significantly higher. Nevertheless, these are quality projects that will have a significant impact on the reconstruction and development of the territory. Perhaps what I would like to mention - an important amount of the total is CZK 700 billion, going on the program of Reconstruction of Municipal and Regional Property after natural disasters. That was the Government's promise of 2021, the previous government. The money is intended to help municipalities in Děčín and Libereck, where the property was damaged by intense local floods just in the summer months of 2021, so now the total amount will be directed there. And we know the demand that could be up to 700 million crowns. We also expect to release some of the resources for solving the current damage caused by fire on the territory of the Czech Switzerland National Park, although the Ministry of Environment is also helping there from its resources. That amount I was talking about could be up to CZK 100 million. Both calls - submission of applications for subsidies - are ready and announced. About 1.3 billion the Ministry is counting on a programme to support the development of regions, where, especially for smaller municipalities, as I have already mentioned, there is a high excess of demand, and thus a high excess of successful but unsuccessful applicants in the sense of order, so-called replacements for this assistance, of this subsidy. For your information, there are currently CZK 4.4 billion requirements in the so-called replacement applications, but a large part of them may be road repairs. At the moment we focus more on the energy part, it is about reconstruction, reconstruction of public buildings, but also support for sports infrastructure and others. From this we want to support the spectrum of national subsidies in particular the reconstruction and reconstruction of public buildings. This is the amount of approximately CZK 1.3 billion and it should be CZK 975 million in total, which should satisfy all applicants in this type of programme. There are about 180 other projects, and one of the effects should also be improved energy balance of such reconstructed buildings. Public buildings are like kindergartens, schools, municipal offices, library, other buildings, of course they serve the inhabitants of these very smallest municipalities. In conclusion, it may be said that MMR will provide CZK half a billion in support of housing development. It's one of the government's priorities. Even in the previous parliamentary term, we have often discussed on the Committee here in the House how these aids are directed, whether it is effective, how a programme that supports social housing. Maybe the answer is, if I look at the percentage of drawing, this really needs to change. We with the Ministry, both on the SPFI and within the national programmes, have already prepared a model of housing financing, which will apply from next year 2023. Let me just stress that we are now talking about an amendment to the budget for this year, because housing availability also appears to be crucial in the context of the rise in prices that citizens are going through, as a fundamental, crisis. It is one of the priorities of the Ministry for Regional Development and is also significantly underlined in the Government's programming declaration Of course, housing support is not just a direct construction of apartments in municipalities. You can't build apartments if there aren't proper assumptions, that's the preparation of land, technical infrastructure, and so on. We also have this in mind, and the Ministry of Regional Development's programmes are also taken into account. So the remaining funds, when I listed the package, will be used in the national tourism promotion program, in municipal planning programs, or in the promotion of architectural competitions. I often wonder if this program will still receive money. This is taken into account within the framework of national subsidies in the increase that we are now asking for. I think I'm done with the review. Basically, I wanted to get to know what the funds in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development were aiming at before other people would appear. You will certainly recognise that housing, improving the energy efficiency of buildings or addressing the consequences of natural disasters deserve funding, and I would therefore like to ask the House and all the Members to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u7	Also thank you, and before I give the floor to another speaker with priority rights, I will re-read the apology in the meantime. Mrs Renáta Zajíčková apologizes from 10 to 11 o'clock for health reasons, Minister Anna Hubáčková from 9 to 11 o'clock for personal reasons and - I think this is repeated here - Minister Vít Rakušan from 12.30 to 2359 for work reasons. Well, the apologies are settled. And now, in the order of priority rights, President Tomio Okamura and then President Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Petr Fiala's ODS government intends to owe our republic a record of more than a trillion crowns. The Czech Republic is a state whose public debt is growing even fastest from all EU Member States due to the Fialův Government. The SPD doesn't agree with that. We are a country that has the most expensive electricity in Europe due to the Fialův Government, which is supposed to cost record revenues from both VAT and directly expected revenues from ČEZ. We have record fuel prices and record VAT revenues again. The excise duty per litre was 9.95 cents per litre from last January, and the government reduced it by a negligible crown of 50 in the summer, but fuel still costs 21% of VAT. And of course, if the price of petrol jumped up to 50 kroner per liter, then only VAT is more than 10 kroner. Given the price fluctuations, it is difficult to estimate specific revenues, but the fact is that the state is increasing by oil taxes and gasoline by an average of CZK 15 per litre, that is about 30 per cent. Then, when the government temporarily reduces the excise tax by a ridiculous crown of fifty for a few months, it is indeed a mockery - a mockery to citizens and a gesture that costs almost nothing to the government because it has increased income on the VAT side, and it does not actually make it cheaper for citizens, which I think the citizens have also noticed. And that's not even what the Fialův government wants. He's like a junkie who doesn't want to give up his drug because many ministers or coalition politicians already know that this behavior is self-destructive. [[10.10 hours]] But the second thing is that Petr Fiala's wicked conduct destroys the entire country, destroys citizens directly, destroys companies, destroys our competitiveness, destroys our entire economic structure. The disposal of farmers means dependence on imports and on the dictation of prices from outside. We saw this when the previous Czech governments, together with the European Union, destroyed the Czech sugar industry using quotas. We became an importer from the world sugar exporter and the price of sugar went up to three times. Once the quotas have been cancelled, the price from almost 30 has fallen to 10 and even today sugar can be bought in action for CZK 13 per kilo. That's just a demonstration of how the West, along with the collaborating Czech governments, wiped out and robbed this country. Petr Fiala's government is no exception - both in treasonous collaboration and in the liquidation of its own citizens. On value added tax, VAT, the state received CZK 252.1 billion in the first half of this year, i.e. CZK 47 billion more year on year. The state raised CZK 128 billion on corporation tax, CZK 16,5 billion more year on year. In the case of income tax on natural persons, income increased by 17 percent year on year to CZK 83.2 billion. The state budget itself received CZK 385.1 billion for tax revenues without social security contributions in the half-term, i.e. CZK 62,2 billion more. And while the state has record revenues for Petr Fiala's leadership and finance minister Zbyněk Stanjura, it gives billions abroad, but does not give a damn about Czech citizens, Petr Fiala's government bailed on Czech citizens and companies. So, on the one hand, record revenue, but that money doesn't go to citizens and Czech companies. So what's the money? That's the money the Fialův government stole from our citizens and companies. The budget is estimated at 9 billion extra for social security. Let's translate it into Czech. At a time when companies are on the verge of collapse, this government is looking forward to taking away $9 billion on social contributions alone. From this overall point of view, it makes no sense to talk about individual budget items, but about what this budget signals. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS announced in August that the price of drones she wants to buy from Israel will not be CZK 1.5 billion, but CZK 2.7 billion. I must say that their purchase is indeed the culmination of economic and military-defense idiots. These drones are 30 years old, and they're not even made anymore. In less than 3 billion, we get a whole three - yes, in three - drones. Drones that, at a maximum speed of 200 kilometers, have a lifetime of a few hours in real combat. This really goes beyond the government's planned purchase of overpriced U.S. fighters for CZK 100 billion, which the Fialův government promised the Američan, even though our Republic does not have the money for it and we do not need these fighters either, because the Švéd are offering us our Gripens, including modernization, twice as cheaply. Yes, looking at the current ODS, I understand the vehement, with which Minister Černochová tries to humbly and servilely lick Washington. Petr Fiala's government is so sold out to the interests of Brussels, Berlin and Washington that it has quietly thrown overboard our citizens and companies who do not have enough for expensive energy. There are billions flowing from our country to the West in all conceivable fields, and our government is doing everything it can to destroy Czech companies even more and get us even more dependent on Western companies. Banks, insurance companies, telecommunications, energy, but also agriculture, here are hundreds of billions that flow out in the form of our tax-free dividends and which then miss our country, our companies, our people. What have our citizens done to you, Prime Minister Fiala of the ODS, that you want to indebt them more and more and the money stolen from their pockets to drive out their masters in the West? The Ministry of Finance, led by Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS, proposes a state budget deficit of CZK 270 billion next year, even though it estimates a total of 120 billion higher VAT revenues, excise duties and income taxes for natural and legal persons than this year. For this year, the government wants to increase the budget deficit to CZK 330 billion and, according to the outlook for the next two years, plans additional deficits every year around CZK 250 billion. All indications are that Petr Fiala's government from the ODS intends to owe the Czech Republic more than CZK 1 trillion in total during its planned four-year mandate. But before the elections, the five-calice of Fialův falsely promised to reduce the public deficit and balanced state budgets. I repeat it again, lyingly - and the whole Republic heard it, you tricked people - you falsely promised what you never wanted to do, and what you never wanted to do. You promised to reduce public finances and balanced state budgets. It's your big lie. The state budget you have designed in this way is unfinanceable because the state's planned expenditures are so high that the state is unable to secure sufficient revenue for them. So it's another line of government cynical and conscious lies. The Czech Republic is now a state whose public debt is growing because of the incompetent Fialův Government and because of the incompetent Minister Zbyňka Stanjur from ODS, the fastest of all countries, from all EU Member States. And once again, public debt in the Czech Republic is Fiala faster from all EU Member States because Petr the Fialův Government. This means why I say this, why I repeat it: there can be no excuse from the government that there is such a crisis or a crisis, because your government is the worst in the European Union as regards the growth of public debt. That means they do it better elsewhere and they do it differently and better than you do. So when one of you is here to make excuses for the crisis and conflict in Ukraine and I don't know what everything, it's gonna be a lie and an excuse, because you're the worst in Europe, just like the international survey - that is, we've all seen it, now a survey from last week that Prime Minister Petr Fiala is the least-popular Prime Minister in all the countries of the European Union, at least - he only trusts 20 percent of your government, or the Prime Minister. Again, he can't take an excuse. If you were somewhere in the middle, but you're the worst in all parameters, in both of these fundamental parameters. That means you're doing it the worst of all, in short. That's it. So I already know the excuses here, I don't know what you're in and what you're in, but if you can't handle it, and if the only result of your work in three quarters of a year, almost a year, is that we're the worst in Europe, it's for immediate demise, and you should admit that you just don't have the ability to run the Czech Republic. And 80 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic already see this, only you do not want to see it. At a time of crisis, it is not a crime to borrow, but any loan must really have economic justification and every expenditure must be effective and have a serious justification. This, however, does not include the draft state budget of the Fialův Government's pen. The SPD has repeatedly submitted its programming proposals in the area of state budget parameters. These include a severe reduction in the state's necessary expenditure in the area of public bureaucracy, reduction..., excuse me, limitation of payments to the EU budget, reduction of expenditure on overpriced foreign military contracts - and we, here I stress, SPD supports the army, we are in favour of modernising the army, but in such a way as to make it really effective and also to be able to do so, of course, the Czech Republic, because what's the point of buying the most expensive US fighters for CZK 100 billion, and that's just the lower estimate, including servicing afterwards, maintenance costs and the like, is to be even higher when we have Gripens and Švéd are offering us free of charge and also offering us modernization? And what good is it if, at the same time, citizens of the Czech Republic, at the same time, I have to deliver this B in one breath, they don't have the energy and they don't have the basic needs of life? That's how you live outside reality, outside the reality of ordinary people. We are not saying no to modernizing the army: the SPD says yes to modernizing the army, but certainly not in this way and in a situation where millions of citizens are not living because of your incompetent government, because of you, it's all because of you that people and businesses are powerless. You're the government, you're supposed to deal with it. You said you'd figure it out, you said you'd be a change. But once again, it was another election lie because you forgot to add that you will be a change to the worse. [[10.20 hours]] Another thing is that we would also like you to accept a strong restriction on the payment of social benefits that is not adaptable. That's what the SPD suggested, but you denied us the law. This means that you do nothing for decent citizens, for decent citizens and companies to help them, but you encourage inadaptable people. I also see that as a problem of your government's years. On the income side, the SPD proposes, for example, taxation of multinational Internet giants like Facebook and Google, which generate huge profits in the Czech Republic without taxation in the Czech Republic, or taxation of dividends issued by foreign corporations from the Czech Republic. It could bring up to CZK 75 billion here according to estimates. So what the SPD says continues to apply is that we refuse to raise taxes to Czech companies and Czech citizens. That's an important point. We refuse to raise taxes to Czech citizens and Czech companies. In any case, those steps to raise money without burdening our citizens and our businesses are many, as there are many ways to promote prosperity effectively. First of all, what the West is doing is to start buying cheap raw materials directly from producers, without ideological glasses. You don't have the smell of oil from countries that terrorize, torture, murder for being a sexual minority, for meeting a foreign man, for having a different political opinion. In Arab countries, women, minorities and foreigners have no rights. Turkey, for example, has been doing genocide on the Kurds for Kurdy, killing them, torturing them, destroying them, and prohibiting their culture and language. It's probably not a war crime that your ally in NATO wouldn't commit. It is gigantic hypocrisy that the Fialův government has given up buying cheap raw materials and is destroying literally the economy and citizens of our country, while Američan are buying Russian gas, titanium, palladium and more. True, part of these purchases take place through Chinese traffickers, which gives the US a really bizarre touch to fight China and Russia. Anyway, it's obvious that even Bidenův's bosses put America first, America First, that is, the US first - and in business they throw away ideological glasses that you, on the contrary, are so willing to put on, no matter what the cost. As the West fights to the last Ukrainian in Ukraine, Petr Fiala's government has obviously decided to fight to the last Czech citizen, i.e. destroy it to the last crown in our pockets. Your budget is really uneconomical, but ideological. You do what you consider politically and ideologically correct in relation to your foreign bosses regardless of economic logic. You will leave Strakov Academy with shame and in your actions against people you have clearly overcome even the worst finance minister in the history of Mr Kalousek and also the extremely incompetent government of Petr Nečas and Bohuslav Sobotka. We're in a difficult situation. Because of your government, millions of our citizens and companies are in a difficult situation, a critical situation. The sooner most of you leave the government and leave the government to the experts and decent people for whom the Czech Republic is first, the better off not only for us and our country, but also for you. People lose their little patience every day with what you're doing, more precisely with what you can't do. The SPD's movement will submit amendments to your government's draft budget, which will move money from the necessary expenditures towards our decent and needy citizens, although, in fact, the Fialův Government's proposed budget deserves a complete revision, because it is such a mistake that it cannot be adjusted even by partial amendments. The SPD movement does not agree with the state budget thus submitted. I therefore propose that the motion submitted to the appellant, the Fialův Government, be returned for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u9	Thank you. I've registered the proposal. This contribution raised two factual points. The first in fact is Secretary Jana Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I don't know if my colleague Okamura has noticed that there's no state budget for 2023, but there's an amendment here, an adjustment to the state budget for 2022. First of all. Secondly, the fact that Okamura's colleague is a demagogue and a liar, we've gotten used to it here, but every time I hear a lie from him, I'm gonna argue with him because it was said here again that Gripen might have offered us something for free. I am once again saying: no free Gripens have been offered, and I am asking you, through Madam Vice-President, that you and Mr Vích will never repeat this lie here again! The Minister of Defense of the Kingdom of Sweden apologized to me for the ambassador's behavior when the ambassador, regardless of what the reality is, said that, theoretically, Sweden could do this. Until now, the Department of Defense has received no message, no information, no offer about any free Gripens! So, Mr Okamura, through Madam Vice-President, stop lying. Maybe Mr Okamura and SPD colleagues don't know what the G-to-G meeting means. It's government-to-government, or government-government. It means that at this point, no contract is concluded, that only and only the demands of the army in custody are being guaranteed, whether the competent state can provide what the military needs and what the military is asking for. The government doesn't specify specs. Specifications are determined by the army, both on supersonic aircraft and on drones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Milan Brázdil and Mr Radovan Vích are also registered with Mr Milan Brázdil and Mr Radovan Vích. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u12	Thank you for the floor. In my point of fact, I wanted to ask Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr. Minister. He said that in the amendment to the budget for this year he wants to increase health - he proposes 1.4 billion. What has changed since we recently tried to keep 14 billion in health care, and now the money has to go back? So he's missing somewhere? It's my question, I hope he's not completely stupid. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u13	Thank you for keeping time. We're multiplying in fact. Mr Radovan Vích, then the Minister and then the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm gonna respond to Secretary Černochová's speech. I would like to clarify that the Swedish party offered to leave us 14 JAS-39 Gripen aircraft after the lease ended in 2027 and subsequently offered us additional machines or their modernisation. So that's the point. Then I would also like to say that the Swedish Ambassador has distanced himself from the expression of their minister. So I am convinced that the lease that ends in 2027 is sufficient for our airspace protection conditions that the possible purchase of F-35 aircraft is simply something that we cannot afford at present, in what state the budget is. And it's just that we, too, would like a modern army, we would like to have a modern air force, but I am convinced that JAS-39 Gripen is sufficient for those tasks to be carried out in order to protect the airspace of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u15	Thank you for keeping time and now with the de facto Minister Jana Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u16	I'd like to ask Mr. Vích if he saw the offer, because I spent the whole last Monday at dinner, sitting next to Mr. Swedish Defense Minister last Tuesday, and he denied everything my colleague Vích said here. There is no offer of free Gripen aircraft from the Swedish side. And maybe we can agree with Mr. Vích and SPD colleagues that the Secretary of Defense has a decisive role to play in this. And if you are dealing with the ambassador, perhaps it is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to send a note, who in the Kingdom of Sweden is in charge or part of the government, whether it is the Ambassador, or whether it is the Minister of Defence. So if Mr. Vích here is saying such serious things, then let him answer me if he saw it, and how is it possible that the offer has not come to the Ministry of Defence's department to this day and that the Minister of Defense of the Kingdom of Sweden does not know about it! The drones. Here, I'd like to set the record straight that it might be some kind of rumble, some shards. No such thing is true, it's completely purposeful. There's no construction that's important here at the unmanned vehicle. On the other hand, it is very good that it has a lot of flying hours, that different mistakes are detuned. That's why nobody sends a Boeing-747 jumbo jet to the junkyard. For these types of devices is key software, especially after autopilot, its detune and flight clock. The more it is flown on a given type, the better it is because the software flaws are removed. And the company you're lobbying for here doesn't even have military exams. [[Vice-President Vildumetz: Madam Secretary, time.]] She can't take part in military competitions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u17	Please, time! Thank you. That was a factual remark from the Secretary of Defense. Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are at the draft law on the State Budget for 2022, first reading, we are at the factual remarks, and the other person who is applied for is Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u18	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that we do not listen to each other, Mr Brázdil, through Madam Vice-President. I told you. We couldn't have known when we were drawing up a budget for 2022, that Ukrainian refugees would come running from Putinův's aggression, and logically they would become state insured. That's how easy the explanation is. And you certainly know from the available sources, such as the meeting of the SAO Supervisory Board, that the impact on the public health insurance budget is actually positive. That means the payments are higher than the medical bills, there's no secret to it. Nothing has changed except that Putin flew into Ukraine, hundreds of thousands of Ukrajinec fled and we provided them with insurance as state insurance. That's a simple explanation. I am still intrigued by Mr Vích's speech. I think it's a statement that shouldn't just fit in. He said the Ambassador distanced himself from the word of the Secretary of Defense. When, where and how? Let us imagine the situation, and no matter who is in the government of the Czech Republic, let us imagine the situation that the government of the Czech Republic decides something or communicates something and the Ambassador of the Czech Republic distances himself from it. What would happen to such an ambassador? It would end because they do not defend the interests of the Czech Republic! So prove these extraordinarily strong words. I like to read the distance of the Ambassador, and then I think it's a diplomatic solution at ministerial level. Does it seem normal to you that the Ambassador of a state distances himself, if you're right, from his own government? I think the Secretary of Defense has raised very clear questions. It is possible that the offer, the so-called offer, ended up with the SPD Secretariat, that is possible, but it did not end with the state. And you keep saying, "You got an offer, you got an offer, you got an offer!"
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u19	Minister, time - thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Ondřej Lochman. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not here to respond to Tomio Okamura's lies. We all know he's a convicted liar, so I'm not gonna comment on that. However, I would like to say two things here. Mr. Vích of the SPD spoke in the last speech about not knowing what our soldiers should do in the Baltics. Dear colleague, through the President, we have had our air force - Gripens since 2009, and, in case you have not noticed, Russia has attacked an independent state, and in case you have not noticed, the Czech Republic is part of NATO. Everything you're saying here, what the President of the SPD said, raises the question of whose interests you're defending. But luckily, Tomio Okamura ditched and said a moment ago here: your NATO ally. That way we know that Tomio Okamura is not defending the interests of the Czech Republic because he is talking about allies of the Czech Republic and therefore it is clear that you are defending the interests of someone completely different. Maybe you can finally change your name to Freedom and Democracy of Vladimír Putin or Party of Friends of the dictator, because all you're doing here is spreading Putin's Kremlin propaganda!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u21	Thank you for keeping time. The SPD chairman, Mr Tomio Okamura, is the next person who is registered with a factual remark. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u22	Yes, I would have responded to some things here. First of all, Minister Černochová, she's been lying here from the start because she's saying why I'm talking about the budget for 2023. I'm talking about it because you've covered up all the extraordinary meetings here where we wanted to discuss the fact that the government is destroying citizens and budgetaryly. It destroys them by not helping them, destroying companies, and because you always reject the program of our special points, there is no choice but to express myself within my space. So when you start acting democratically and allow the opposition to space, we will, of course, comment on the individual points that we have proposed here many times. As for the purchase of fighters, for American fighters, the purchase price is CZK 3.5 billion, for Gripens there is CZK 1 billion. Gripen flight hour is $5,000, US fighters $35,000. So that's probably the comparison. And again, you're sold out. You really made all these promises before the Washington elections, and this is the result that you're completely destroying the Czech Republic and jumping around like some kind of mops. As far as Secretary Černochová is concerned, you've never even been in the military. You were doing your weapons license, like you said, until last term. True, I've had a 20-year weapons license, and I think that this incompetent defense minister, when you've never served in the military, unlike our Radovan Vích, who has a high military school, a high-level military school, is a reserve colonel and also worked in NATO structures, represented the Czech Republic and abroad, in Brussels for several years and so on, can speak languages and arrange fluently English to represent abroad, so I don't think I'd be much into your competence. It's a disgrace. And to conclude, I had to find out who was talking, actually, Mr. Lochman... And I'm gonna turn myself in again because my time is done. I'm reporting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u23	Mr President, time - thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is the Minister of Defence, Mrs. Jana Černochová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u24	I don't know if Mr. Okamura needs to prove anything. Maybe I'll leave it as a woman without comment. But only with a smile, I wonder if, then, when Mr Okamura here speaks to everything that he has to do with education and competence. I think I've demonstrated my competence enough to be a good Secretary of Defense, I think I'm a good Secretary of Defense, I have the results. [[10.40 hours]] And just so you know, the assignment, please, on a military proposal for a supersonic solution, was still being commissioned by Prime Minister Babiš's government, not by Prime Minister Fiala's government. The assignment was ongoing, and the analysis was ongoing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u25	I'd ask for peace in the room. Madam Secretary, I will set the time, of course, after which it has now been interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u26	Thank you. The analysis took place all last year. And maybe if my colleague Vích had gone to the Defence Committee more often, he would have had that information and wouldn't have left Mr Okamura here talking complete nonsense and lies and insults. The fact that Mr. Okamura has a problem with women, we've already noticed... [[Fun in the hall.]] And I think it only demonstrates its weakness, its smallness and its stupidity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u27	The next person who is registered with the facts is Mr Tomio Okamura, Chairman of the SPD movement. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, those desperate screams of Mrs. Černochová, it makes no sense to comment - whether anyone has a problem with women or men, whether anyone has children or not. I'm not gonna comment on that, because that seems too desperate to me anymore. But I will address Mr. Ondřej Lochman of the STAN movement, Mayor of Munich Hradiště. That's the guy who's been silent about organized crime all along, the mob in the STAN movement, and who hasn't said a word here. This is the one who here - because silence is consent - who here quietly agrees with how the movement STAN, Munich Hradiště - mayor, Ondřej Lochman, I had to find out your name, because I have not even recorded your activities in the House here in my life... nor have I actually noticed your activities in the House. I had to ask my colleagues your name, who you really are. You're getting a high salary here, but I never noticed that you would develop activity, so I'm sorry, so that's why I had to ask my colleagues - please find him on the Internet who he is. But you're behind the STAN movement, you're behind the party that's part of the organized crime that's part of the mob contacts that's the party where there's corruption, and that's Ondřej Lochman from the STAN movement. I've never seen him define himself against what's going on in your movement. So you cover up organized crime, cover up mafia practices, cover up corruption, and that's Ondřej Lochman. I still have 30 seconds, so I'm gonna do it again. Ondřej Lochman of the STAN movement, this is the mayor of Munich Hradiště who is covering, also quietly covering here - he never got out - organized crime, corruption practices, ties with the mob in your movement. You support the STAN movement in this event, but you do. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u29	Well, thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Ondřej Lochman will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u30	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am prepared here to speak to the budget and confront Mr. Marian Jurečka at the MPSV. I am prepared in a matter of fact, and I would ask terribly much that all the atmosphere that is beginning to arise here slowly, and it begins with various personal attacks, aka men, women, mopsies and so on, leave behind the door of this Chamber of Deputies, go back to discussing this budget here, because I also have a lot of questions about the Minister of Finance, let's calm this atmosphere here and let's just enjoy this atmosphere politically, calmly, completely coolly - hard, let's also have a hard time with the budget, let's have questions, but please leave all the personal invectives at the door of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u32	Thank you for the floor. I agree with what Mr Juchelka said, but if anyone comes here, lies, insults members of the government, members of the Chamber of Deputies, they defend themselves - quite logically. There's a management meeting for someone to negotiate order. Madam Vice-President, in a factual remark, according to the Rules of Procedure, according to the law, the Member is to respond to what has been said in the debate, and Mr Tomio Okamura here is conducting personal attacks and analyses on one of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies. I could talk about him, too, because he's actually a convicted liar. When we say an old Czech proverb lies, like when it prints, so if you, Mr President, open a printer, you are certainly a very successful businessman, if you were to sell all those lies, like when it prints. But that, Madam Vice-President, is why we have a management meeting and tell me where, in the final factual reminder of President Okamura, he responded to the debate. He said, "I don't know the MPs, but your problem. That's your problem, you've been here long enough to know all the members of the Chamber of Deputies and then evaluate them, and not comment on the content of the performance at all. So he violated the Rules of Procedure for the silent consultation of the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u33	I'm sure I can agree with that. I am convinced that this is in the context of more people's factual remarks, the question is that you must always let the speaker speak, you do not know what the content is, and then you can point out that if this were to happen again, he is in breach of these Rules of Procedure. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Ondřej Lochman. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u34	Thank you. Good morning again. I'm so glad to see that Mr. Tomio Okamura was running away from what I was talking about. The fact that he's spreading pro-Kremel and Putin propaganda here doesn't want to talk about it, that's for sure. My colleague, otherwise I have a higher attendance in the House than you do. Well, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u35	I would like to ask everyone very much if you address the Members, through Madam President. [[Member Lochman: Through the President.]] But there are other MPs who don't follow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u36	Through the President. And through the President, my colleague, if you look closely at the media outputs, you will find that Mr Ondřej Lochman has criticized Mr Hlubuček many times. I've been in the media many times with your MPs, and I said if this guy stole anything, have the police investigate him, have him arrested. So please find out the details and the exact dates. You're a convicted liar, so we know what you're saying is you're lying. And I would like to move on to what we are debating here today, and that is the state budget. If you want to abuse it in personal invectives and lies, you can do it, but you don't do anything for these citizens, nothing for the citizens of the Czech Republic, you just show your ego here and yell and yell. And you are not talking about what needs to be resolved here, and that is energy, it is necessary to solve this budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Again, I would like to emphasise to all Members that we are discussing the House Press 284 which concerns the state budget of the Czech Republic, namely its amendment. I have another point of fact to which the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, is registered. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u38	So here, too, we saw in the footage that this MP Lochman, whose name I already know, I don't remember his face yet, came to our benches and threatened us there. Okay, but a higher turnout. Of course, I told you that, because you're just gonna sit here in the House, unlike me, who's always talking in the media, I'm running campaigns all over the Republic, we're preparing a lot of laws, the SPD has passed dozens of laws, so, of course, I might have a little bit less participation. I think it's over 80 percent, most of all parliamentary party chairmen, by the way, of all parliamentary party chairmen, so, of course, I can't compare myself with you if you're just sitting here. As far as I'm concerned, he "invited the Hlubučka." You never asked Minister Rakušan to resign. He put Mlejnek there, he knew everything because your councilwoman Marvanová informed him in the spring... [[President: Through Madam President.]] Yes, she informed him in the spring that there was some organized crime at the Prague City Hall. I didn't. So, if you were fair, you'd call on the Home Secretary of the Rakušan, but you don't have the strength or the courage. So that's how it is with you. As for the apology, thank you for letting me do it again, I have 50 seconds. Court of First Instance - Mr. Zdechovský, huh? - the court has finally rejected the claims of the KDU-ČSL MEPs Zdechovský and Svoboda to apologize to them through television, newspapers and on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and decided that I should publish on my Facebook profile that they did not vote for sanctions against the Czech Republic. Therefore, as I have already said, both gentlemen have voted in favour of the Czech Republic and other EU countries taking responsibility for the relocation and reception of refugees. Well, when someone votes for the reception of migrants as KDU-ČSL MEPs, which has been confirmed that I was right - I said it was a sanction, that it was a punishment for the Czech Republic. The judge leaned forward that it wasn't a sanction, that it wasn't a punishment. Okay, I admit, I put it wrong, I have no problem apologizing, but that's the point. They voted in favour of receiving migrants to the Czech Republic, and they are damaging the Czech Republic, and that is just the way it is. [[President: Mr President, time.]] So next time, find out what it was about!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u39	Thank you. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. Mr. David Šimek will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u40	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I'd like to ask both gentlemen, I beg you, to discuss it outside in the lobby, and don't delay us here with your personal attacks. I don't like it either way or the other way. I think it doesn't belong here in the Chamber of Deputies and it degrades our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Mr David Šimek is the next one to sign up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u42	Thank you. I would like to call on you, Madam Vice-President, to actually focus on the management of the meeting. We came here today to discuss the state budget. Minister Stanjura asked you a moment ago to really look after the factual comments, and here we saw once again that Mr Tomio Okamura failed to comply with the factual point, he did not pay any attention to the issue of the state budget at all. It is your duty to bring him to justice on this matter and to warn him not to repeat it again. Thank you so much for that. Let's really focus on the budget, that's probably the most important issue of why we're here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u43	Mr. Ambassador, I take your point, but I take it as unfair, because I would have to take that word from both the opposition and the coalition. Unfortunately, it's from both sides and it wasn't observed from both sides. It's been in a few cases, and it's always on those factual notes, so whoever's running this meeting is getting into a very difficult situation because it's always on both sides. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] Now with a point of fact, President Tomio Okamura is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to stand up for Vice-President Vildumetzová here, because a factual point - and you might be able to get a little more orientation in the Rules of Procedure Act - is a reaction to a previous speaker. So I responded to a colleague, and if I go to the very beginning, I had a second speech in line and I talked about the budget. Mrs. Defense Secretary Jana Černochová has been working on her personal inquests against me, and it's been slipping ever since. Yeah, she tagged me with invectors here, and it's been slipping ever since. So let's start with where it started. I spoke purely to the budget. I had an opening speech on the subject of the budget, which is indisputable. With the invectives, the actual first remark, came Minister Jana Černochová. Let me not evaluate the content, but the first person to come up with the invector was Mrs. Jana Černochová. Then we reacted to each other. That means, I agree with you, let's go back to the budget. I agree with what Mrs Jermanová said here, and I applauded her too. Let's go back to the budget and please talk about the budget. We all obviously have different political views, we all see it politically and budgetly differently, so we disagree, but please, let's do it without some personal invectives and let's move on about the budget, people are waiting for them. But the fact that he's reacting to the previous speaker, and we don't know what the previous speaker is going to say, so logically you're reacting to something and then it's slipping somewhere else, so it's hard to do anything about it. But the truth is, in such a case, perhaps the President should lead it from the beginning in some way. But I reacted to Mrs Černochová, she responded to me again, sure, but that's where I think the personal plane started. I was still trying to be relevant in my speech, in my original speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u45	Mr David Šimek is currently registered with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u46	Thank you. We really did have a lap at the moment. Perhaps this cycling was also due to the need for the President to actually - whether it is the debate of the Member on the left or on the right, it does not matter - really, let us focus on the subject, and if the subject is off, so, Madam President, please enlighten us, tell us not to enter into this, let us address the subject. I think that way we will be able to avoid these unnecessary cyclical things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u47	Ambassador, I understand that I am sitting here as Vice-President for the YES movement at the moment. You must have noticed that I have stressed several times what we are discussing, what the House press, what it is touching, and I have tried to call on a Member to do so. Again, the speeches and other Members were not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the context of factual remarks. Again, all those who are performing here at this point say, let's go back to the budget, and I have four more factual points, or three. Ms. Defense Minister Jana Černochová is now registered. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Maybe Mr. Tomio Okamura could increase his ginseng dosage, which is good for memory. In his opening speech, which was here, and was not a factual remark, Mr Okamura attacked me. I responded in my factual remark to Mr Okamura. Mr. Okamura mentioned me, explicitly mentioned me, referred here to our government as some kind of moppers. In my speech, I responded exclusively to Mr Tomio Okamura's insults, and I was right about how it is with the Gripens, that no one is offering them for free, and that at this point our government is acting so-called G-to-G, that no contract has yet been decided, and that Mr Tomio Okamura is not actually telling the truth when he puts these things in a position to be done. Nothing's done. I was explaining what happened to the drones. So I really stand by the fact that I, purely in my factual response, responded to the words that were said here in the main debate, when SPD President Tomio Okamura had a speech here, insulted the members of the government and spoke of me personally. So the response was completely in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I insist. If Mr. Tomio Okamura doesn't remember, let him play the tape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Robert králíček, Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u50	Madam President, colleagues, I will respond to Mr Šimek. Ambassador, it seems to me you're joking. You're telling me that the argument between the Minister and Mr Okamura was caused by the President? You're dragging Madam President into this, and you're gonna run her around, how is she supposed to run the meeting, really? I don't think she's giving anybody a hard time about being fair, everyone's got room. Minister Stanjura gave his opinion, criticized her. Madam President apologized, so don't kick her again. Or do you want to stir up another argument between us and you to prolong it? So please don't get out again, through Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u51	Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who performs here behind this microphone is responsible for themselves. There are 200 Members here, and everyone who performs here is responsible for themselves. I, Mr Stanjura, through you, Mrs Černochová, through you, Mr Okamura, through you. We don't have to be the presidents here - whoever's there, if Vice-President Vildumetzová was here, or Kovářová, it doesn't really matter - the teacher who's gonna be here to pimp us out. We're all responsible for each other in front of that microphone for what we're saying here. If insults fall from one side or the other, it is the responsibility of individual actors, who are, of course, funny sarcastic, critical and wannabe here doing a show for TV cameras. Let's not do this again, please. I also have a lot of different questions within the budget, I'm the first to be logged in, and I've been waiting here for, like, an hour and a half. Please calm down and let's go back to talking about this without any wannabe funny stuff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u53	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mr Hayato Okamura. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that people have given us confidence in the elections to serve them. It is an extremely difficult time to continue the Kremlin aggression in Ukraine, which has severe consequences. High prices that bother our citizens and citizens are waiting every day, every hour, for our solutions. I think it's such a difficult situation that we really need to build bridges here between government parties and the opposition. I can feel it here a lot. So let's keep working on that state budget right now to solve problems without delay, because socially weak people can be affected, like if something is resolved a month later, really very sensitive, it can also lead to human tragedies. So thank you for your peace and cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. That was the last point in fact, and now, with priority rights, the President of the ANO Group, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is signed up. At this point, it's the last priority right, but someone else can sign up. Then we will go to a debate where the 12 Members of Parliament are on the list at this time. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm glad we're going back to the amendment to the State Budget Act of 2022. Minister, colleagues, allow me first of all to have a very brief theory. Not that I'm here to lecture you honored colleagues, you know, but I'm creating a donkey bridge after what I'm about to say next. The State budget is an essential instrument through which the objectives and objectives of economic policy in developed countries are implemented. Among these basic objectives and intentions we rank allocation of funds, which is called the allocation function of fiscal policy, we also redistribute it through public budgets, it is a function of redistribution, and we also stabilise it through public budgets, it is called a stabilization function of fiscal policy. On these days in the Chamber of Deputies, there is often a debate on how we are in today's crisis situation. However, this is not the most important issue of the day from my point of view. I do not mean that this question is not important, but we have an even more important question before us. I'm asking what we can do to stabilise this crisis here today at this point. What can we do against the decline in real wages, which has been the highest since 1993 and is at almost 10%? What can we do about the fact that a large part of the Czech population is now headed for poverty? How can we prevent the fall of Czech companies, which employ our citizens here, and thanks to which we have the lowest unemployment rate from all the countries of the European Union? To deal effectively with this crisis, we would need an effective anti-crisis policy on the part of the current five-police that we have been calling for for for months. Today, here in this place, I want to hear from the representatives of the government's five-calice, how the submitted amendment to the state budget serves to fulfil one of the fundamental functions of fiscal policy, and that is precisely the function of stabilization. Our support required should be in the form of temporarily increased government expenditure to support citizens, but also aggregate demand. At the same time, however, it should aim to reduce the effects of price increases on our citizens and companies. In the current situation, it is extremely important that we do everything we can today to start a full, real and as quickly as possible recovery from the current crisis. In 2022 Czech companies, but also households live in the shadow of collapse, which approaches with the coming winter. Unfortunately, this does not bother the government coalition, at least not enough to come up with quick solutions. Unfortunately, Minister Stanjura - unfortunately for Czech citizens and companies - does not draw from the knowledge available to him from historical knowledge. We all know how the brutal policies of the duo Topolánek and Kalousek deepened the economic crisis in the Czech Republic during the period 2008-2009. Unfortunately, the Minister has decided to forget about valuable and expensive lessons from history and completely rejects one of the fundamental economic policy makers that cuts, or in other words restrictive fiscal policy, must take place at a time of economic expansion, economic boom. On the contrary, in times of crisis, when poverty is at risk, it is appropriate to adopt an expansionary fiscal policy, or, if you want to hear it from the public, when people are in trouble, the state is supposed to help them. Most households are now beginning to doubt or already doubt the future. Even five months in a row have fallen confidence among consumers. The consumer confidence index is on its long-term minimums, and households fear the coming winter, their financial self-sufficiency, as well as the fear of losing their jobs. We managed to reduce debt in times of economic expansion. Our government managed to reduce the level of government debt, I think, at the time we had the Ministry of Finance, from 44.4 percent of GDP to 30 percent of GDP. At the same time, for the first time since the reign of Václav Klaus, we have managed to reach the surplus state budget twice. At the same time, we managed to reduce the tax burden on citizens and companies in times of economic growth. But then the health crisis came, and we used the knowledge and tools we had to minimize possible damage to our economy, and we followed the motto "let's not give up, let's not give up". In spite of all the mistakes we've made, despite all the things that we might have done better today, but who has ever faced such a crisis associated with the economic downturn? We have managed to keep unemployment at the lowest level from all the countries of the European Union. We managed to maintain one of the lowest levels of debt for economies from all EU countries, and we also managed to leave the Ministry of Finance with a debt ratio that was at a lower level than when we entered the Ministry of Finance - I think the representatives of the ANO movement - entered. During the 30-year existence of the ODS, which was part of the ODS or TOP 09, could boast a similar result? Yes, debt increased in all EU countries during the entire health crisis, and the Czech Republic was logically similarly. But the increase in this debt was average compared to other EU countries. However, we managed to save Czech companies and maintain low unemployment and we all benefit from this low unemployment today. Let us not forget that an employed person means income income from income for the state budget, pays insurance premiums, at the same time consumes more, thus increasing income on VAT, excise taxes, gaining public budgets overall more. On the contrary, a person, a person who is unemployed - and, of course, I do not want to say that he owns the guilt, not his own guilt - is the beneficiary of unemployment aid, so from the point of view of the state budget, I say from the point of view of the state budget, it is an expenditure item. But at the same time as unemployment, there are a number of other problems that we politicians should be aware of. So much for why we are here today because I think it is good to remember that we are here for Czech citizens and for Czech companies. And now, after this more general introduction, let me return to the very analysis of the amendment of the State Budget Act for 2022. Already the beginning of the reign of the current five coalition was associated with extraordinary and apparently completely unnecessary chaos. The historically longest budget provisional that this government has thrown us into has brought nothing positive. It caused only chaos in public institutions, which did not know what funds they could expect in the current year, and at the same time its impact, of course, outside the creation of chaos in public institutions, was absolutely minimal. [[11.10 hours]] After all, the father of the founder of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek agrees with me, who said that the savings of 34 billion on the spending side were certainly not worth the extremely long budget make-up. And it's not that 34 billion isn't enough. If it were reasonable savings, I would be the first to support the draft budget. The problem was, or actually still, that these cuts were stupid, threatening health care. It was about marketing cuts or cutting off real expenses. These cuts had nothing to do with increasing the efficiency of the public sector, eliminating unnecessary expenditure or reducing the structural deficit. The reason for which there were no decisive cuts is and was quite clear to me from the start. Our budget deficits were not caused by irresponsible fiscal policies as you tried to suggest in the election... or not to suggest, they said hard in the election campaign. Our budget deficits were forced by the situation then, and there is no easy way to lower the balance. After all, the five-calice have already found out for itself, which is why it cuts blindly, without any deeper thought. When the current budget was presented, I pointed out that it was absolutely necessary for the Minister of Finance to submit an amendment. For one thing, I draw attention to the very fact that the state budget is a law, and since the adoption of this law, it has been quite clear that it will not be respected. It's totally unacceptable to me as a lawyer, the laws are to be respected. But it also created real problems for institutions that did not know and de facto do not yet know what amount of funds they can expect for this year. Let me give an example - my colleagues will talk about this - CZK 500 million for sports organisations, which will be used according to the explanatory report submitted by the amendment on subsidies for small clubs or unity with volunteers at risk of crippling to liquidation. Part of the funds will also be used to support major sporting events and again quote the explanatory report, quoting "the number of which would fall by more than two thirds in the event of a failure to raise the funds compared to the previous year." Is that normal? First of all, while Petr Fiala's original proposal for the cabinet brought at least some marketing effort for savings, the amendment to the state budget for 2022 completely gave up on this ambition. Not to mention a reduction in the structural deficit, but I'm talking about one-time operations. But when we talk about reasonable savings, we cannot apply the blind cut method, but we have to go through the item by item, row by line, box by box and look for small savings to increase efficiency in individual budget items. In the volume of 2 trillion Czech crowns, individual savings from increasing efficiency will certainly be found. Unfortunately, he prefers to cut the five-wheelers, regardless of the consequences of 14 billion health care. As I have already said, expenditures have for the first time in history exceeded CZK 2 trillion and this does not really sound like a consolidation plan. The budget amendment itself, in the vast majority, adds only a minimum legal level to spending and really underestimates investment. It does not address the housing crisis, it fails to address the energy crisis and expensiveness. The vast majority of the new budget expenditure is not directed to Ukraine or to help Ukrainian migrants, which we support. This is just a political shortcut that has been used by the current five-calice government to justify updating individual expenditures. When I look into the bowels of the novel, sickness insurance is updated by 2.8 billion, unemployment aid by 1 billion, contributions to support employment of people with disabilities by 0.6 billion CZK. The compensation for fare discounts is increased by 1.2 billion or in connection with vaccinations set by payment mechanisms, and the costs of the Ministry of Health are increased by 3.2 billion. That's a mandatorial expense. In three months' time, these items will be added - of course, because under the vision of a reduced deficit they have been cut off, with the vision that there will be an amendment anyway, and the money will return there. That's how I figured out -- and that's not the valorisation of pensions, and so on, I say it outside, beyond -- that's how I figured out the amounts above 14 billion. And where is the concrete aid to people in the energy crisis, in the crisis with food prices, fuel prices, but also to companies, because they are also facing extraordinary problems in relation to current developments? It is also clear that there are extremely severe investments, which will be discussed by my colleagues. Railway management lacks billions to repair and a large number of current investments have a problem with their prefinancing. With the current increase in the prices of building materials, it is clear that for 1 billion Czech crowns a different number of kilometers of roads and motorways were built at the beginning of the year than in September 2022. Similarly, I see a major problem in the minimum increase in housing support in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš spoke here, I hope he saw the numbers: 500 million in the chapter of MMR on housing policy? At the time of the biggest increase in real estate prices from all EU countries? At the height of the housing price in our country, the most of all EU countries grew, at a height of about 25 percent - Eurostat figures roughly 14 days old. My colleagues will certainly also speak in more detail about the lack of expenditure increases due to the inflation crisis for public health institutions, education, in individual offices. Mr. Governor, MP, Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Ivo Vondrák, my other colleagues. The novel also lacks resources to raise the salaries of police officers, firemen and soldiers. The increase in SFDI's revenue by 5 billion is also an increase only from the point of view of the state budget. From the point of view of the SFDI budget, it is only compensation for the loss of revenue from road taxes and excise duties on mineral oils. In doing so, it is quite clear that the State is the entity that benefits most from current inflation. This year, the state is counting on increased revenue as a result of inflation by CZK 127 billion compared to our draft budget, which was approved by the government of Andrej Babiš for 2022. Minister Stanjura has introduced a new right-wing into the debate and public space - I quote - the concept of an extraordinary profit tax in which he wants to tax energy, banking and refineries. At least that's what I'm getting from public sources. I haven't seen the proposal yet. It has to be added that it does not have to be the final list, because when I quote from one of the interviews of Minister Stanjura, I quote, he said, "No one can be sure." I draw from public sources. Here Minister Stanjura forgets that if we are talking about extraordinary profits, we should be talking about the state in particular. The figures of the current cash flow, now the last one was at the end of August, confirm this - I draw from the Ministry of Finance numbers - what I have been saying here for several months, and therefore that the five-calice is just hiding behind its inflation increased revenue, which it collects from citizens and companies. This year, according to this last cash flow, the state raised CZK 91.1 billion more in taxes and insurance from citizens and companies than it did last year. However, the state budget deficit fell by only 66,9 billion compared to last year. So the presented result of the management was achieved only thanks to a higher collection from citizens and companies, and I am not even talking about the fact that at the same date last year some 59 billion still paid off in compensation. [[11.20 hours]] The submitted amendment to the state budget for 2022 provides for an increase in VAT collection by CZK 22.5 billion, corporate tax collection increases by almost CZK 9.2 billion, personal income tax increases by more than CZK 10 billion, income from gambling tax increases by almost CZK 1 billion, similarly increases by CZK 1 billion, in the field of social security premiums and contributions to state policy increases by CZK 9 billion, the state-owned CEZ achieves extremely high profits this year, and the State increases collection on dividends, which could and should have been significantly higher. So the presented result of the management was achieved only thanks to a higher collection from citizens and companies, and I am not even talking about the fact that at the same date last year some 59 billion still paid off in compensation. And I'm assuming that hopefully it will be. However, similarly, the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic is coming from losses to profits as a result of increased demand for wood. Revenue for the state budget - another CZK 4 billion. We also have extraordinary funds from EU funds, which should be used by the state, and I could continue this way. In view of what I have said, it is quite clear that the amendment to the state budget draws only on increased revenue. Moreover, the selected CZK 127 billion is not felt by citizens or companies, and if they feel this money, they feel it only because they had to hand it over to the state. For the first time in history, spending alone does not go to the right areas. In this form, the amendment to the state budget is completely unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u57	Thank you, too. The Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, is now claiming priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u58	Thank you for the floor. I won't read so long, just a few comments, and they won't all be critical. We have honestly admitted that the spending associated with the refugee crisis and Putinův's aggression will, fortunately, be less than estimated by experts at the beginning of March. That's good news. Mrs Schillerová appreciated it in her speech, thank you for that. But please try to explain this to the chairman of your movement, which goes through here, saying, "We're helping strangers and not ours. Either the number one sentence is true, or the number two sentence is true. Fortunately, we either say that the costs will be only 20 billion, that is about 3 days of state budget spending, approximately, or 3.5 days, and the remaining 361.5 days are expenditures for the Czech Republic, its citizens and for the services provided by the state to citizens. The collapse with the winter coming - thanks to the irresponsible policy of the former two-minister Karel Rosatom Havlíček, we had no alternative solution to energy supply at all. Yes, we did - I thought the opposition would appreciate it, and she's passing through deep silence - that we secured the vans. The moment you secure those supplies, you can only return to the question of prices. It's logical, and that's how we proceed. First we have to have the gas secured and then you can solve the price, you can't do it the other way around. When you're short, there's really no price because you don't have anything to sell or anything to deliver. I think we agree that we don't produce gas and that we are 100% or almost 100% dependent on imports. I just want to remind you that the first LNG terminal in Europe opens the day after tomorrow after Russia's aggression. It opens in Holland and the new capacity will be used by three Member States of the European Union: of course, the Netherlands, France and the Czech Republic. It's roughly one-third of the consumption capacity. Given that it is already taking place this year - I would say - logical savings in gas consumption, this may be higher than 30% of annual consumption, given the total annual consumption. Yesterday you heard that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and Prime Minister of Poland decided to continue the accelerated continuation of the construction of the Stork II pipeline. We can be envious - that is not the right word, we can congratulate our colleagues from Slovakia, who, unlike the previous governments, did not appreciate it, opened up a new gas connection between Poland and Slovakia in the past, thus increasing Slovakia's potential for diversification of resources. [[Unintelligible.]] So there's no cold collapse, the vans are secured. At this point, we're dealing with prices so that they're acceptable. They won't be as low as they were last year or year before, none of us say that, and if anyone says that, they don't tell the truth and promise something they can't do, especially for raw materials where we are fully dependent on imports. But the solution will come, and I think as a society, we can handle this winter and the next. I think that, until then, at European level, I do not think at European Union level, but Europe as a continent will solve, because, fortunately, the gas is enough on the planet, only it has to build new logistics routes so that Europe is not dependent on the dictator using energy as a weapon in his political struggle - and it uses it. At least he's already admitted that technical defects are made up, that he's doing it for political reasons. And notice - and it is especially for SPD colleagues who are so fond of talking about dysfunctional sanctions - as Vladimir Vladimirovič Putin, the Russian dictator, is able to say within two days: First, sanctions are completely ineffective, they have no impact on the Russian Federation, everything there is fine. And the next day, he says, "We won't send gas unless you cancel the sanctions." Why would he want to abolish them when they are ineffective, they do not work, they do not fall on Russia and they only fall on European citizens? They affect European citizens, including Czech citizens. There are no effective sanctions without impact, dramatic impacts on the European and Czech economies, but we say this honestly all the time. This is fiction, imposing some sanctions, effective sanctions without impacting on the globalised economy and those who impose those sanctions. And here we voted, and I think we did the right thing - and I understood that we had the support of the entire Chamber of Deputies, and thank you back for that. Let us remember how we gathered here on February 24, 2022, an unprecedented unity. And I think we need to remember the moments when we were in agreement, when we decided on freedom, not cheap Russian gas under Putin's political conditions. It must have been obvious to us that it worked that way. When you look at what Gazprom did for two years in Europe - how he systematically won auctions to fill magazines and didn't systematically fulfill them - it wasn't a random day-to-day event. This is what the Russian Federation has been preparing for in the long run, knowing that this often short-sighted European policy will lead to an increase in dependence because the gas, oil, can be used more as a weapon in a political struggle. This is not used as an economic commodity in a normal market environment. This has nothing to do with the market environment, what Russia has been transferring over the long term. I say, look for Europe, how Gazprom didn't fill the bins. Again, I want to appreciate the consensus - it doesn't look like it, but I think we voted together for the amendment to the Energy Act, which allowed us in the Czech Republic to withdraw the competitive capacity of Gazprom, and we are already fulfilling it. If we hadn't done this together, I think with the support of the entire Chamber of Deputies, we're looking at how the most modern gas reservoir in the Czech Republic is empty. To date, we have almost three billion cc's of gas, we're somewhere in storage at 85 percent. Fortunately, the moment when we draw from the bins comes - it's standard, there's nothing surprising about it, but the later we start to draw from the gas reservoirs, the faster - even if nothing flows, like gas flowing, still flowing, every day we supplement. In addition to covering daily consumption, stocks in those containers increase every day. So let's not scare the citizens into collapsing with the cold by not having energy. They will. Concerns of citizens and entrepreneurs from high energy prices are justified. I don't think anyone's questioning that. We're thinking of a solution, we're debating it with our colleagues. I hear great skepticism for a European solution, but if we want to do this, we need at least some European solution that could serve to lower those crazy spot prices. [[11.30 hours]] I think the PHM example is quite eloquent. I'm not saying it's a happy story, but I remember being together again, I say again, the entire House, reduced the excise duty to petrol and diesel by a crown of fifty plus VAT. At the same time, the excise tax on diesel and petrol and neighbouring Germany was reduced and we saw headlines: In our country, as I would say politely, insignificant crown fifty and in Germany significant 8.50 or 9 crowns. I explained at the time that it was because we were on the same level after the intervention of the German and Czech Parliament, that we had the same minimum European level, only they had higher levels until then. We're at this point-- we're at this point-- we're at this point-- we're at this point-- we're at this point-- we're at this point-- we're at this point-- it's at four months, it's been in Germany for three months. What happened to the fuel price in Germany on September 1st of this year? It increased by 9 crowns, logically, because you will add increased tax to the current price level. I don't read about that anymore. If the price goes up by that crown of fifty, I can already see the comments on how unnecessary it was. By the way, it was 4 billion tax breaks for those who buy fuel. And I wait and look forward to the comments that it was only by the crown of 50 and by 9 crowns in Germany. And it is always necessary to assess the package using other governments not only in whole, but in particular. Here we all voted for 5,000 per child, and now I don't want to lead the argument whether it was right or wrong, what were the counterproposals? As part of the aid package in Germany, the aid is EUR 170 per child in the family - there are also some limits - EUR 170, so you calculate it, that is less than 5,000, in Germany. Still, we read how other states help more. It is not true, and I said that the valorisation formula of pensions proved to be effective, that all European countries have automatic pension valorisation and respond to high inflation during the year. Inflation does not only grow in the Czech Republic, we have no joy in the level of inflation in the Czech Republic. But let's see how this is growing in other countries too, let's ask and find out, and maybe we could give it to the Parliamentary Institute because they are processing quality analyses for us, so if we need the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to tell us if this institute is in place in the Member States. In fact, I don't have information in how many countries, but I know from the debate with my departmental colleagues that it isn't in many countries. So I think it would be useful information for the debate, how much the state is helping, what counts or not. And, in general, what Madam President Schillerová said: I will not argue with every sentence, but I would argue with those investments. So far, investments are being made best in the history of the budget, which means state spending on investment. But as I said in recent years, let's wait for the final investment account at the end of the year. I think there's no point in leading a controversy in April, May, June, but not even in September. It's some kind of indicator, but the final indicator will be at the end of the year. And then we can evaluate it together and say whether those who said that investment was insufficient or we who say that it would be the highest in the history of the Czech Republic's budget. It hasn't been that long, so I think we can hold on. We haven't crossed out any investment in our budget or in our novel. Yes, we don't increase spending on the State Fund, but we're going to make up for what we promised when we canceled a significant part of the road tax, because that's SFDI's income, and when we cut the mineral oil tax and there's 9.1 percent of SFDI's revenue, we're going to return the money just so that the volume of investment doesn't go down. But generally, and now I don't mean it ironically - I look forward to the amendments to our opposition movements in the sense: we are criticized that the deficit is too big, and I said that I am not happy about it. But if it were true that the state was collecting increased income and keeping the money - what would happen to the deficit of the state budget in that case? It's going down, that's easy. If we hadn't even increased the expenditure and we had increased the revenue that we were honestly admitting, the deficit of the state budget would have been reduced. And despite the increased revenues, unfortunately, the state budget deficit in our proposal is increasing by 50 billion, so it cannot be true and may not have an item by item in detail that is happening with revenue. They return to the budget, return to the citizens, return to the institutions that care for the citizens, and to a greater extent than the increased revenues, and therefore increase the deficit of the state budget. If it were the other way around, it would be true to claim that increased revenue is used to reduce the deficit. The opposite is true. So the criticism doesn't actually make sense to me when I hear that the expenses we're giving aren't enough. I heard it again today. As I say, I will therefore wait for those amendments, which, on the one hand, will probably reduce some of the expenditure, when such criticism as we do not reduce expenditure, unnecessary, redundant - I am not saying that all of them. And on the other hand, they're probably going to, I'm guessing, we'll see, increase expenses. So let us see if these amendments lead to a higher proposed deficit, because we are in the amendment, today we do not approve the basic parameters, so the budget deficit after the amendment will be determined by what amendments will be adopted. It's a little easier. It won't just be shifts anymore, and we'll see. I said Friday, but I'll do it again. The 5,000 per child with the limits that are - I say, I don't want to lead the controversy - the estimated expenditure is about 8 billion. The opposition suggested not to do it once, but five times. I'm not going to evaluate it politically again, and I'm just saying, instead of spending $8 billion, it would be $48 billion... sorry, 32 plus 8, 40, sorry, five times in total, so plus 4 times 8 and a half. Does this lead to an increase in the deficit this year or to a reduction? What would the deficit look like if we approved this proposal? Would it be lower or higher? And I'm not evaluating the content right now, I'm just looking at the budget. Well, he'd be taller by tens of billions. The debate would be much more comfortable, easier for all of us if we had surplus state budgets. Every increase in the budget - and we have to keep repeating this, even if it is not popular information - is on debt. And when the interest rates were zero, they're gone irretrievably, and I don't think they're coming back. Everyone who deals with financial markets, banking, says that this was more of an anomaly, that the interest that was so low lasted for so long. They had their reasons at the time of their emergence, but many warned about a crisis that came before increased inflation and high energy prices, that the situation would just get worse one day and we would have to get used to it. For every 10 billion of the increased deficit, we will pay about 500, 550 million a year forever if by some miracle we fail to reduce the absolute amount of debt. I am not talking about the relative amount of debt, which is compared in a European context. So unfortunately, this amendment, if it increases the deficit by 50 billion, generates additional expenditures for interest payments on state debt by 2.5 billion per year for all the years to come, we would just realize that. And I say and see which way the amendments will go. We would like to be able to help more than we have done so far, but there are limits so that we do not disrupt public finances. And it's not true - at first I heard the severe criticism of the Topolánek-Kalousek duo, so that it would be quoted as Mirek Kalousek says it well today. So it's either criticism or commendation. Both in one are quite odd and I'm not going to add to it, to the evaluation. It is not true that this is a restrictive budget, that we are increasing the deficit. It's completely confusing terms, it's making me very upset. Now, I don't want to evaluate individual items, let's talk about how much social services are going to be, but if I'm increasing the deficit, it's not restrictive. If I reduce the deficit, it's restrictive, and we're talking about the degree. So when someone says it's a restrictive amendment against the current budget, they just don't tell the truth. It's not a political attitude, it's just facts. The political stance is that we say where the priorities should be, how much should we send there, whether here or here. Or it's a political stance, if it's more expansionary by 50 billion, or 100, or 150, but it's expansionary. It's never depressing, and if there was a zero, it's neutral, if we cut the deficit, it's restrictive. That's just the way it is, and if we mix it up like that, we'll get lost in the debate. Yeah, and I'm saying, then there's legitimately a political debate about priorities, spending, but also income. [[11.40 hours]] With the revenue - windfall tax - yes, it's in public space. I answered the question - I didn't say that nobody could be sure, it was some shortcut, I didn't protest it, because in the context of the interview it was quite clear. At that time, we considered two sectors and finally reached a proposal on three, but the government has not yet decided in what form it will be presented to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. If we call it windfall tax, additional taxation, taxing profits... Let's look for Europe again. Is it a Czech specialty? Is this the invention of our government? It is not, and more and more states are taking action. And according to my prognosis, which doesn't have to be fulfilled, so do those who refused to do so. A few weeks ago, we recorded statements from the German political scene that are completely legitimate, and I do not want to evaluate the internal policy of another Member State - that they will not introduce a windfall tax, that they do not consider it a good concept. Last week, on Monday, the Chancellor announced that the government coalition had agreed to introduce a windfall tax. Of course, it is just a headline as it is in our sense: we have to compare specific solutions and specific rates. But it seems logical to me, if there are additional high energy costs - and they are - and they apply both to households and institutions and companies, then somewhere those profits arise. What's wrong with the idea - it's extraordinary - of taxing these extraordinary profits for some time and using them for compensation? We don't have to, we can leave the big profits and deepen the state budget deficit with the effects on interest payments that they are. It's a different solution, we don't prefer it. We say there is to be solidarity with those who have extraordinary profits due to external circumstances. Profit isn't a dirty word, but if there's an extraordinary profit because of outside circumstances, there's a legitimate debate if we don't use some of that profit to compensate those who don't do business in those sectors. There's no violation of the election vows, there's no such thing. And we'll see, I think we'll soon be talking about parameters in the Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that even here, we're going to find a bigger consensus than just a government majority, because it seems effective, logical to me, and I think they understand that if they resist it, even those on whom the tax will undoubtedly point. Or we say, "No, keep the profits and we'll deepen the public budget deficit." And the third option is - and we reject it - the third option is that we don't compensate anyone for anything, and we reject it. I think that's three possible options. As a government and a government majority, we decided to compensate for how much public budgets they could only carry, and we said that within the balance sheet, we were thinking about taxing unexpected profits in some way. It seems logical to me, but if someone says politically that we should either not do, help no one, or that we should only increase debt and not touch those profits, it is a legitimate political opinion that we do not defend. With the savings, I say, I'm really excited. We have no savings... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I look forward to those proposed savings from the opposition, and if they are feasible and reasonable, I will be the first to support them. I can certainly promise you that I will consider every proposal very honestly, whether on the revenue side or on the expenditure side, because I say that because we are in a normal law regime, we have more room for debate and assessment of any amendments that I think will fall from both opposition and government benches. It's always been like that, and I'd be surprised if it wasn't. At this point, before I suggest it, I would like to give consideration to our opposition, if we did not shorten the deadline to 18 days, so that in the week when it will be sitting at the House, unfortunately in that week there is a public holiday on 28 September, there is room for possible discussion of the proposal at second reading. If there are objections, I'll suggest 30 days. I think 30 days is enough, I think 18 days is enough. I'm saying this in advance before I read the proposal, it's going to a proper MP meeting, it's not going to any early dates or extraordinary meetings. And I assume that we have the material available for more than 10 days, that many of these amendments are undoubtedly ready, no matter how the budget committee stands up to them, we can think about them and then decide by our vote. I certainly will not support it, and I do not recommend it to anyone, to return the budget to recast, because if we do, and if a majority were to arise - I do not think it will, fortunately, arise in the Chamber of Deputies - all the help will only be delayed, because if you do not have a budget cover, even if you want to, you will not do so without the state budget. If there are specific questions about specific items, individual chapters, I am prepared to answer or defend or explain those questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u59	Thank you, too, Minister. So was there any suggestion on your part? He didn't fall at the moment, thank you. I now have a factual point with which Mrs Margita Balaštíková is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u60	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I have a verdict for the outgoing minister. He was always in every speech when he was still a MP...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u61	At this point, I don't see any Minister in the hall, so the meeting cannot continue. And so at this point, I'm going to ask for a three-minute break by 11.48 so that somehow this will be fixed, and then we'll come back. So until 11-48, I'm interrupting the meeting due to the absence of any minister. [[Minister Jurečka enters the hall, followed by Minister Stanjura.]] I already see the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, thank you, but I've announced that he will be... [[Minister Stanjura apologizes for having to sign a report.]] Absolutely. Thank you. At this point, I have announced that it will be suspended until 11.48. Does anyone have a problem if we continue the negotiations? I see no objection, so at this point in time, with the de facto remark made by the Member. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u62	Hello again, colleagues. I told the outgoing finance minister that when he was still a MP, he would always grab on to these little things in every speech, and it would spin a round of such big events, and I would grab on to these little things. So if we were to compare that Germany is not helping or is better off... [[The Minister's response.]] No, no, no, Minister, through Madam President, you have directly said that they are giving less, and I would like to point out that please Germany has a substantially different budget, and what are their electricity, electricity and gas prices, unlike us - so they are behind us, therefore they are lower, and what is their average income and what is their average pension? So we were closer to saying that they're helping more than we are, because if we really compared it numerically, I'm afraid it would be true on our side. It's just a remark on the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u63	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mr Richard Brabec is the next person to make a point of fact, and the Minister of Finance will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u64	Thank you for the floor. Every fox praises its tail, so I am not surprised that, of course, the Minister of Finance praises his novel. I guess that's normal. That's what we'd do. However, I am impressed that we have recently been swamped with big words, which says not only the Prime Minister but also a number of members of his government. I think it might have fallen today, too, that no one's gonna let the government fall, so I'm just pointing out that the crashes are already happening. But the Minister of Finance here has said that there is no collapse in the winter. This is quite a bold statement, and I would just like to know what the Minister of Finance imagines as collapse, because, of course, the greatest idea of collapse that we are all going to freeze to death at home isn't really going to happen if we put on a few sweaters from the President of the House. But, of course, I think there is a dramatic collapse in the economy, there is a risk of collapse in the industry, of specifically closing businesses, of firing people, so really say at this point that there is no collapse, which I am translating is that we have fully recovered energy for the whole period, even though we now know that the gas supply is closed, we don't know when it will open, so that's very brave. And then I would like to know how the Minister of Finance imagines the collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Now with a point of fact, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u66	I found a pencil... I don't know if you need an interpreter from Czech to Czech. I'd ask you not to put something in my mouth that I didn't say, and then criticize it. Criticize what I actually said. I said the situation was serious - not that it's okay, but I said there was no collapse. What's not in danger? There is no shortage of energy, and that was a few months ago - even because of the inactivity of the government in which you, Mr Member, were sitting through the Vice-President. I said how many containers we have and how much contracted capacity we have in the LNG terminal, which means we have gas secured for the winter and it flows to the Czech Republic every day, including today. The fact that Nord Stream I doesn't flow is completely different. I think you know this very well, as I do, through Madam Vice-President, that it is not the only pipe from Russia in which gas flows, first of all, so the collapse does not occur in the sense that there is no energy supply. I said the situation was serious and that we would take measures to make sure that, after we secured the supplies, prices were acceptable, and I said they wouldn't be low and that the situation would be serious, so I didn't downplay it, I didn't say it was okay, so don't put it in my mouth. Mrs Balaštíková asked me, I just dropped it... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Excuse me? Yeah, yeah, I didn't say the Němec didn't help enough. You're putting something in my mouth that I didn't say. I've only compared two, two numbers, and that's excise duty on petrol and diesel and child support. And actually, the numbers confirm my claims, not yours. Yes, they have higher incomes, but they also have lower child support in absolute amount, which means not only in absolute amount, but also in relative amount it is lower. That's all I said. I think that's fair. I actually have once a week available, and certainly many of you too, comparing the measures that individual governments are doing, and it is not so. [[Prime Minister, time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u67	Thank you very much. Your speech raised two factual points, the first Mr Aleš Juchelka and Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u68	Thank you very much. First of all, the case against Minister Stanjur. Every time he talks about the previous governments, of course he also thinks the governments in which the ODS sat, certainly also the government in which he sat as the Minister of Transport, I assume, because probably in those thirty years after the revolution, we should have built the independence of energy all of us. Secondly, as far as Germany is concerned, we now know that a few days ago it was a package of 65 billion euros, which is roughly when we convert it nominally into GDP, 1.7 percent of GDP. If we were to convert it into GDP in the Czech Republic, it is CZK 111 billion, if I have calculated correctly, and this is, of course, something that the Czech Republic does not approach within this value, within the framework of aid, even with the extraordinary valorisation of pensions for seniors. And last but not least, I read about an hour ago that Minister Síkela had taken the gas prices from the negotiations on Friday with energy ministers, which is a surprise to me, but so be it. But the second part of the sentence was that, in this framework or here in this context, he already almost has a package of assistance ready for Czech companies and Czech citizens. He can't be serious, Minister Stanjur. I understand that he is not here, but you really have looked up over the last week to the fact that on Friday there will be a Council of Ministers under Mr Síkela's leadership, that he will come up with some European solution within the gas. That probably doesn't apply anymore and you're going back to the national programme, which should probably have been done in the framework of the energy package - you've been promising that since March? [[- Please, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Another with a point of fact is Mrs. Berenika Peštová. Before I give her my word, I'll allow myself to read any more apologies. Mrs Klára Kocmanová from 11 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Taťána Malá from 14 to midnight for health reasons, Petr Sadovský from 12.30 - health reasons, Iveta Štefanová from the whole day - working reasons and from the members of the government Jan Lipavský from 9.55 for work reasons. And now, with Mrs Berenika Peštová's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u70	So I would like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Brabec, and I would also like to ask Minister Stanjura. Of course, I reflect the news that is in the media, let it be from the point of view of gas, energy, and I realize that you have called for the salvation advice on 9 September, where you will try to find a solution. I'm more surprised that the Young have entered a study on September 1st, which I think should have been commissioned by now, but I'm saying I'm not going to criticize it here in any way, but I'm more interested in the fact that if the head of the Tykac empire offered to help you twice with the fact that it would be cheaper energy, and you weren't interested, I'd be quite interested in what the offer was and why the interest on your part wasn't, if you were so kind and answered me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u72	I will now, by your means, speak to Mr Juchelek. Let's distinguish between two concepts, and you mixed the ceiling on gas prices and the ceiling on Russian gas prices. That's two completely different things. The second is at the entrance to Europe and the second is at the exit to consumers, that is, to households and companies. They have nothing to do with each other, but they have nothing to do with each other. Why, as the Czech Republic, do we not support the idea of ceiling Russian gas prices? Because it's de facto the seventh penalty package. We're afraid it would be weeks and months, you know how complicated the debate was about the sixth penalty package. But what we support is cutting electricity prices from gas prices - but that's a whole other thing. At a time when we would only put a price on Russian gas, that means we will increase the price on the world markets of everything else, including LNG. I think that's quite understandable. This has nothing to do with ceilinging prices for households or for companies in the Czech Republic. But we don't have as many tools here as electricity, because, as I said, we're not just importers, we're not producers. So, please, it's completely different. And so I wonder - we can ironize, you: a saving European solution, you go ahead... nothing like that. We didn't say, that's salvation. I have clearly said that it is better to have at least a minimum base at European level to ensure that compensation is not too expensive for all countries, and I have clearly said that I think that this will not be enough for us and we will complement it with measures at national level. Can we ironize it? So tell me, if we don't deal with our partners, how do we deal with the price of gas? How do we deal with the price of oil? How do we deal with oil imports? How are we going to deal with oil and gasoline imports? We're just not self-sufficient! So tell us. We can't shut ourselves down because we're not self-sufficient. So what's so funny, ironic, stupid that we're trying to find an agreement between the Member States?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u73	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First - Mr. Aleš Juchelka, Richard Brabec will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u74	Thank you. Minister Stanjura doesn't like putting something in his mouth that then criticizes the other. I didn't ironize anything, I expect an apology from you, because that's not true. I was merely asking how you did something within 30 years of the revolution in energy independence when you sat as Minister of Transport in the government of Petr Nečas. I also said that Minister Síkela wants to remove the ceiling on gas prices from Russia from Friday's extraordinary meeting of Ministers for Energy of the European Union countries. That's all. Of course, I know all the things that you said to me here last time we talked about this on Sunday in Václav Moravec's questions with your government colleague, and before that was Minister Síkela, whom I listened very closely to. [[12.00 hours]] But what interested me was the B, the second sentence, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, he said that the Ministry almost had a plan for helping households and companies. Almost a plan. You're here when you've had a long speech, talking about how energy is used as Putin's weapon. Turns it off, turns it on, we all know that. It's horrible, of course. But I ask, if you have an almost ready plan for help for households and companies, what is your weapon for households and companies as the government of the Czech Republic? How do you defend companies and households from this Putinův energy weapon? In what way? You're gonna let everyone stand there -- and now I'm gonna be ironic, you're gonna know -- and you're gonna let them cut their heads off with Putin's energy gun? Because these companies are falling at the moment - the meat industry, the food industry, the bakers, the glassworks, all those who need to somehow put a stop to energy prices, so you bailed on them. And Minister Síkela plays the first violin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u75	Thank you for keeping time. We have three more factual points. At the moment, Mr Richard Brabec, Mr Berenika Peštová and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u76	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to talk, but if you're saying I'm putting something in your mouth, Minister, don't put something in my mouth again. I don't think I ever said a word that it's okay, so we can look at the log. If I said it, I'm sorry, but I don't think I said it. However, we will not put anything in each other's mouths, I agree. [[Laughter.]] But what's more important. I think you're still insisting - and that was the main message for me - that the collapse - and I'm gonna stop here, and I'm gonna say a word here, because I think it's quite important to hear it from the finance minister and definitely the importance of the two of this government, that you're really saying, I just want to make sure - that we don't have enough energy for this winter. Let's talk about the winter, it can end sometime in March, April. [[Help from the minister off the microphone.]] In April, well, let's agree, by the end of April, that you are actually saying that even with unlimited consumption at this time, full of industry consumption without any regulatory stages you say that we have secured energy, and therefore no collapse is imminent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u77	Thank you. Hello, everyone. Another point of fact was made by Mrs Peštová, then Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer my question, so I'm just reminding you about that Tykac guy they gave you twice the offer. And I'm going to extend it by one more question. If Germany has more than 50 per cent of gas and gas power plants, that means they will dig a lot for not going from the gas conversion, what strategy you will choose as the Czech Republic, until the 9th. 9. Will you sit with them? Because I think there's gonna be a lot of pressure to keep the status quo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u79	Thank you. Next logged in is Minister Stanjura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u80	I apologize to Aleš Juchelek. I used you in that word, but I thought small in, I responded to the three performances, so I apologize to him, it wasn't personal with a big V like you, so I apologize to him, it's hard to pronounce a small - big in, but I could clarify it. To Mr Brabco, through you. With full respect to the microphone here I say that by 30 April sufficient energy is provided. With all due respect. And I'm not gonna say winter ends on March 21nd calendar. I think the end of April is such a date when gas consumption falls more significantly in the coming months. I'll say it with full seriousness and repeat it. As for Mr. Tykač's offer, that's not where we agreed. I don't think I'm allowed to talk about details. The offer wasn't as good for the state as it was presented. I really do not have the habit of commenting on unsuccessful business negotiations in the sense that the agreement did not take place. If it were so convenient, of course we did. I don't think it's true that there's not gonna be anything on Friday, maybe it's not until Saturday, I don't know when the board ends, it's not in Prague, but it's in Brussels, but it's just a detail. I think some good solutions for the Czech Republic will be adopted. Don't ask me to say the Czech Government's strategy here. The president's country has the role of moderator, I think we all know that. We're not going there as one who will only represent the national position. Our task is to find and balance individual attitudes and this is what the Czech diplomacy is doing at the moment, by far not only ministers but permanent representation, and everyone is working, on a daily basis, on an hourly basis, debating with colleagues from other governments. Certainly if you then report that the Austrian Chancellor supports Czech proposals, the Polish Prime Minister, these are partial reports, but this will be the key. So I will not tell you how we are going to negotiate this strategy, but, for example, a proposal that says that prices would fall by source at the power plant, I think it is advantageous for the Czech Republic if such a principle is introduced. Given our energy mix, I am convinced that it is advantageous for us and that we will support such a proposal. But we can't promote it as a presidency, we have to host it. We have our suggestions and we are patiently discussing them with our partners. So if you asked about this, I think this is a good and advantageous solution for the Czech Republic, the ceilings for manufacturers to determine by the source used by the power plant. And it's not just the core, it's black coal, brown coal, renewables in individual types and so on. I think it's fair and logical, and if it does, it will make it easier for us to have a national solution to complete it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u81	Thank you. There's no one else with the facts at this point. With priority rights is another Mrs Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be brief. I'm going to respond -- but those two minutes of de facto are always stressing me out -- I'm going to respond to the minister. Well, Minister, as you said here, tell us how you would do it and so on. No, you tell us. You tell us how you'd do it. So far we're just waiting, now I'm thinking about energy. I'm not gonna go into energy because he's gonna perform after me, if I'm not mistaken, Karel Havlíček, and that's his thing, he's said it a couple of times, so I'm not gonna stop him, like you're always saying how we didn't do anything, so he's gonna remind you again, so I'm not gonna take it away from him. Investment. Yes, that's what we're gonna say at the end of the year, but we're also gonna figure out what's going on with these investments, how you've secured them in the years to come, how you expect them when budget 2023, which you sent to the government, how do you expect other investments, because the Minister of Transport can't even defend it. But I think Karel Havlíček will also comment on that, so I'm not gonna interfere with it, I'm gonna stick to mine. You know, those taxes on extraordinary profits - or let's call it what we want - let's put it bluntly, and you know it, it's not a solution to the structural deficit, it's a solution to the current situation. It goes somewhere where your government's mandate is if it lasts the entire term. And I remember how you promised to perform, how you always fought in your boobs when you were in opposition, in the election campaign, various of your performances, how you're gonna figure it out, the finances, how we broke them up. By the way, they are not broken down at all, read the experts' comments and look at Eurostat numbers. But you said you'd make structural changes. Just recently, you've been in some kind of TV debate, not so long ago, repeating that you have to redistribute and reduce the number of officials and so on. And where is there any indication of a solution to the structural deficit? We didn't promise it, we had a plan to consolidate public finances. He was slow, and of course we couldn't even include the above-standard income. And I'm going to remind you of one thing when you say, "I'm going to see the amendments and I'm going to study how you're going to find them and where you're going to find them." I repeat - you said I read a long speech here, yes, I think about my speeches and prepare them - but I was here telling you what the basic tasks of the state budget are, and one of them is also a function of redistribution. That's your responsibility. You're supposed to load the budget so that you don't cross out the investment to ensure a social reconciliation so that you can help people the way you called for it when you were in opposition. And we did it, and often we listened to you, and often we worked together when it was things that no one ever did here, and we wanted them to pass through the House. We don't know anything, I didn't see it as the head of the biggest opposition club, shadow finance secretary, no proposal - I might have sent it to you a long time ago - a proposal to tax extra profits. I'm sure we'll ask how you're treated so it doesn't affect the citizens. [[12.10 hours]] I'm sure when I see it, I'll have x of different questions, but most importantly, how are you going to deal with the structural deficit, where's your plan? I know you've been with the government for nine months, it's not much, but it's not enough for you to be able to come up with a plan, and you sent a budget to the government for 2023, and that's not where I see the plan. That means it affects me so that you quickly invent what would save your deficits under your reign, but in the future, you call yourself the Flood after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u83	Thank you, too. I see a point of fact here, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u84	It's hard to react when the sentences contradict each other. So I don't know if I'm going one way or the other. Don't worry, you had a deficit of 420 billion last year, for this year 377 without what came, and 330 is power to those who had 420 last year, and next year 270 - also power. How much were you planning? The thief is screaming, catch the thief, or the pyromaniac is training the firemen to see if they're on time and they're not half a minute late. I understand the position of Finance Minister in a completely different way than you do. The government decides on the budget. Yes, we propose, process, the professional apparatus does the bill the way it's supposed to be done, but not the finance minister. I know you personified yourself, that you're the one who splits the money - the government. The government! I know you don't see it, maybe it's a different concept. I'm just gonna do it the way I see it, negotiate it as a budget. And by the way, I'm looking forward to speaking with Mr. and Vice-President Havlíček, through him, now I don't know exactly how to do this... The investments, Mr Vice-President... but you're not driving, excellent, so through Madam Vice-President. Have you ever calculated the actions you signed for you with the timetable and compared it to the medium-term outlook? Do you know that you signed, or signed, by your controlled investment firms, a larger volume of contracts than you had approved, or your government approved the expenditure framework for leaving the deficit? It's the flood after us! I'm gonna sign the contracts, and I'm not gonna write the money until the next few years. And somebody care when you come!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u85	Minister, time! Thank you for keeping time. With a point of fact, an MEP of the ANO movement, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is registered. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u86	Mr. Secretary, forgive your defamatory parables. I didn't choose a single vile analogy when I was talking to you. And yes, it was 420 billion, it was because we compensated and compensated very heavily. You asked us to compensate even more. Yes, it was Plan 376, but I also couldn't count on the 127 billion extra you have. And, Minister, don't say that the deficit will be 270 billion. Your government hasn't approved it yet, and I think you saw yesterday that your government's top priority - the 50 billion energy tariff - isn't there and we'll probably find more pearls. So please don't say it! Don't say it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u87	Thank you for keeping time. Your speech brought up another factual comment from the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u88	Imagine, theoretically, that I will come here and say to Members or Members of the opposition parties, as has already been said from the mouth of one Member, you do not speak out or say this. That would be words about the arrogance of those and restricting the rights of the opposition. You were talking about the proposal I sent, there's a 270 billion deficit in the proposal. It's a surprise there's no energy tariff! And there's also no windfall tax. We said we'd be using extra revenue for extra expenses. It's not funny. I wasn't even talking about the structural deficit. Of course you're right, it doesn't serve to reduce the structural deficit, of course it does. You're also right that tonight will be a night, and tomorrow will be a new day. I didn't claim that extraordinary taxation and the use of the money for extraordinary expenses serve to reduce the structural deficit, so I wouldn't say such stupidity, so you don't have to deny it, that's true, that's what we agree on, that's the same thing that tomorrow will be Thursday, that's what we agree on, we don't have to make sure about that. Let's lead the argument about where we differ, where it makes sense. That's all I have to say. So it's not 50 billion. The saving tariff has in it the forgiveness of payments for POZE, that is, of course, there is, 42 billion of which is left from the austerity tariff and 40 percent is this year, 40 percent of the 42 billion is about 16.8 billion. 42 without 16 is 26, so it's not 50, but 26. We know about this. We know about this and it will be there, and maybe there will be something else depending on how we project it from European to national solutions, there might be another tool. The amount won't be smaller, it'll be higher. But we also know that after we've finished the windfall tax proposal, we'll put the revenue there. And I'm sure the bill will be passed by the end of the year before the state budget proposal is voted on. What's incomprehensible about that? Anyone who wants to understand, who doesn't want to, breaks hands and says, "It's not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u89	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by the President of the ANO delegation club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u90	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Are you kidding me, Mr. Secretary? Are you kidding me here in the Chamber of Deputies? The Chamber of Deputies passed the Energy Tariff Act, the Government approved the relevant regulation and you are obliged, obliged! According to the budgetary rules, put it in the spending party and send it to the government, which, of course, will then discuss it. And tell us about the windfall tax? Please, the law isn't even written yet, it's not even in the commentary proceedings, and you're saying you're going to put him against it? You can't be serious! I remember when you specifically trained me here, that I have only 2 billion in my budget or about 2 billion for the digital tax that was already over the government at that time, and I dare say that at some stage even after the first reading. So please don't be mad at me and you know it, you know it, you're just trying our patience here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u91	I also thank you for keeping time. Another person who is registered with a factual remark is the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u92	An increased voice does not mean that the speaker is right. That's just the truth. So all government regulations approved by the government are either in the amendment or in the draft state budget. Parameters of the savings tariff for 2023 have not yet been approved, this is normal. You said a moment ago how dare we talk about the deficit being 270 billion when the government hasn't approved it yet, and at the same time you're telling me I'm making fun of the Chamber of Deputies, the government hasn't approved the proposal yet, and it's not in the Chamber of Deputies yet. Take your pick. Either we criticize the proposal that is - and you are right, it did not pass, the government did not approve it, it did not come to the Chamber of Deputies, we are in 2022. So the budget will be here by 30 September. Then we can say whether there are mandatory expenses or not, whether we have other political priorities, where we see revenue or expenditure and so on. So on the one hand, you're criticizing me for not being approved by the government, and then you're gonna tell me I'm making fun of the Chamber of Deputies, but I can't make fun of her - I wouldn't even do it - because then there's a proposal coming into the Chamber of Deputies that will be approved by the government, not sent by the Ministry of Finance, really, you know very well. I said that if we have zeroing renewables payments for 2022, 2023, that's what the draft budget is. It's just there, don't tell me it's not there. I understand, because it's only in eKLEP, so I find the debate premature, but why not, I'm ready for it - it's already there. I think it will remain there even after the government has discussed that nothing will change there in terms of payments for renewable resources. And I said, as far as the cost-saving tariff or any other instrument we can supplement it with, and the amount will not be lower, but higher than the 26 billion, it will certainly be there when the government approves it and comes here to the Chamber of Deputies. So we can talk about a material that's in eKLEP that hasn't even been discussed by a government that can make changes there, which I don't rule out, and therefore it doesn't have at its disposal. The Chamber of Deputies - it does not seem productive to me at this point, to work material to hold a debate. [[Prime Minister, time!]] So it's no fun, it's work material, it's in eKLEP. [[- Please, time!]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u93	Thank you. The other person who is registered with the factual remark is President Alena Schillerová. Madam Speaker, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u94	It's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain. Minister, I have a feeling you're up there. It's not like that, I know you're in charge of the government. But when you sent the preliminary draft budget in June, we had this debate here, so you said it was just some kind of official version. Now you're saying it's government business. As Minister of Finance, you have jurisdiction and obligations under the law and by the law of jurisdiction. You are obliged to submit a draft budget to the government, and you are right, the government will approve it, but your duty is not lost, and you are obliged to put all the expenses into that budget - I already consider this to be mandatory expenses if there is a law passed by the Chamber of Deputies and a government decree approved by your government, and you did not give it. Now don't tell me there's gonna be some revenue against it. Well, it just didn't work out, let's face it. You painted 270 billion marketing, it just didn't work out for you. You don't negotiate with your colleagues, so when I heard how Minister Síkela reacted to the subsidy - he probably knows it's not in the budget - to the Czech Television subsidy, he said, "Well, I'm counting on it. And other ministers of surprise. That means you painted something there to make it 270 billion, and now you can just say it from the left, from the right, it's just that. It's just that you should have had it there, and you just don't have it there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u95	Thank you for keeping time. Your performance raised two more factual points. At this point, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr. Aleš Juchelka will prepare himself. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u96	I actually like paradoxes because it's kind of funny. I'm in numbers, and I'm in control... Well, I don't know. I don't think either, but there's only one of those claims that should apply. It can't be that you're into numbers and then you control everything, in any collective or in any organ. I'm not saying, I don't think one sentence is true, but if you think one is true, they can't pay at the same time. He really can't. You just have to choose. That's the first thing. Second thing. We are not going to argue with you, and thank you for the unsolicited training on the duties of the Minister of Finance, unlike you, I have not yet made any illegal decisions, so I really don't like training that I didn't order. If I need one, I'll choose the trainer myself, order it, and he'll educate me. Or do you feel like I've broken some kind of law? If you do, then deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u97	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Aleš Juchelka is the next one to sign up and will be prepared by President Alena Schillerová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u98	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. I'm kind of losing it. Does that mean that what we're approving here at first reading is some kind of work version of a budget amendment? Do I understand? [[He's turning to the Treasury Secretary Stanjura, who answers off the microphone.]] All right, fine. I wanted to make sure, because I spent two days on it. Here I have just pluses, minuses and so forth, so I just wanted to see if we were talking about which budget. Thank you so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u99	Thank you for keeping time. The next person to be logged in is President Alena Schillerová. Madam Speaker, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u100	Well, I guess this is the last time I hope, 'cause let the rest of us get to the floor. Well, Minister, I'm not training you. I am a member of this Chamber of Deputies, I have been legitimately elected as you have, and the government is obliged to answer to the Chamber of Deputies, so I have the right to ask you questions. And the fact that we had a duel of legal opinions on remission or general pardon of VAT, I just don't lead as a violation, it was a duel of legal opinions, that's where you were headed. Yes, I believe that you have violated the budgetary rules, that you are the mandatorial expenditure arising from the law, by the law approved by this Chamber of Deputies, or even by the Senate at all, the President has signed it, and the Government's regulation did not put it in the draft budget and you should have put it there. And we're not talking about 2 billion or 1 billion, as you trained me here for 2 billion for digital tax, we're talking about a much higher amount, you yourself admitted 26. Personally, I think it's more than that, but this will be the subject of the budget negotiations for 2023. But just don't tell me not to train you here. I have the right to ask. I have a mandate as valuable as yours. And I hope that other colleagues will be given the room, but of course it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u101	Your performance raised another factual point. The priority rights are still logged in here. With a factual remark, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u102	I didn't say you were training me, but even if you did, it's a much more welcoming word than someone's training someone. So I, when I was in opposition and I asked you questions, I trained you. And I didn't say you were training me here, I said it would be training on what obligations are under the law of competence, I understood it wasn't for me, it was for Members of the Chamber of Deputies, but if you thought it was for me, then fine. And I didn't say you were training me, let's use the same words. When the YES movement is in government and asks the opposition, they are trained by the government. And when those roles turn around, we have a right to ask questions, and you have a duty to answer us. I agree with that, I answer what I can. When I feel that something didn't sound accurate or inaccurate or that the whole truth wasn't told, I respond and I don't sit here waiting for the final word, I try to answer immediately. Sometimes I forget a question, then I'll ask you nicely to remind me, and if I know, I'll be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u103	Thank you for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. At this time, Mr Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, is registered with priority rights. Before I give him my word, I'll allow myself to read my apologies. Radim Fiala apologizes for the whole day for working reasons, Ondřej Lochman apologizes from 13:00 to 16:00 for working reasons, Bohuslav Svoboda apologizes from 12:30 for working reasons, Vladimír Zlínský apologizes from 13:00 to 14:00 for working reasons. And now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Karel Havlíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u104	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Minister. I thought my performance would be ten minutes, that we'd be on budget 2022, that it would be short, factual, I had prepared even one thing for which I wanted to praise or thank you, the other, where I wanted to poke a little bit, and it could have been very quick. However, it has once again turned into this discussion of energy, competences and so on and so on, and I have to respond to this before. I feel, Minister of Finance, that it bothers you to rule, that you are in a situation you never wanted to be in, and that it bothers you that you have to decide that you have to look for a solution. And instead of looking for them to point the way, you're always crying, you're looking for excuses, you're looking into the past. And if you really don't know where to go, you pull energy security. I don't think I'm gonna comment anymore, because others do, others warn you that you're not telling the truth, in some cases you're lying hard. The very last person to draw your attention to this was the Demagog server, which ruled out to the government how you commented on the so-called gas from Poland, where they said it completely wrong. Also, you're being repaired by Norwegian gas analysts, we could go back to the Dukovan several times, but I don't want to do that. But let me remind you of one thing. Let me remind you that if you're chasing or losing energy security, we need to realize what it's based on. It is price-based, it is based on resource diversification and it is based on availability. So let's see how you fight it, with the energy security. Price - fiasco, Minister. Whether we like it or not, in terms of purchasing power, we have consistently one of the highest electricity and gas prices throughout Europe, and the government's fight against the price is one big farce. I don't blame you, either, the Minister of Industry is responsible for this, but you finally take decisions as a government, and that you fight it badly, that you can't handle it, and your five-calice colleagues are already pointing you out. So speaking of energy security, the first point that's in your hands-- I'm not saying that it's completely, and I'm not saying that it's easy, I wouldn't dare -- you're losing at the top of the line here. The second area of energy security is the diversification of resources. Yes, that's a long-term issue, but we really weren't there when gas was privatized, we weren't there when refineries were privatized, we weren't there when CEZ was privatized, we weren't there when water was privatized. If everything is in the hands of more or less multinational companies, it is very difficult to find - even you, Minister - any diversification. You can hardly convince them to do this or that. [[12.30 hours]] The third area is the area of availability. I mean, energy security. I partly agree with you here. If we want to ensure accessibility, we must ensure it on a short-term basis and on a long-term basis. Based on the short term, we don't blame you for filling or filling containers. We correct you - and you're a person who likes numbers - correct you when you say it wrong. If you say: There were semi-empty bins - so we say that at the beginning of the heating season there was 87 percent. We correct you when you say that today you have the most in storage tanks ever, and it's between 85 and 90 percent. So in 2020 - which is not so long, it's been two years - it was 98 percent, Minister. That means you're wrong about practically everything. I'm not saying that strictly, but just to be clear. Then there's the long-term availability. Long-term availability has nothing to do with bins, which is given by new sources, such as nuclear resources. We can talk a hundred times about what could have been done better in the Dukovans, and I'm sure we won't meet on it, but at least we were the ones who started it. I agree that Temelín should have started in 2013 or 2014, but we started Dukovany, we made it to some stage, your government got it and could have triggered the tender. Why don't you secure the same thing within the third and fourth blocks of Temelín? So far, nothing has been done at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but there is talk that we should be more energy-sustaining, which I think we can agree on. But those are phrases, Minister. Do something and do something. Securing Temelin's third and fourth block is a long-term job. It didn't start working, and I don't know what we're waiting for. So the price, diversification, availability, and let's talk about what anyone could have done better. But I don't want to go back in this. The Minister of Industry isn't here, and I'm sure I'll deal with him some other time, but I had to respond because you started it. Let's go back to the budget of 2022, which is. That's what I wanted to sum up in ten minutes, but I have to go back in part to what you said about investing in the Department of Transport. But let's start with the simpler one, and that's the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Perhaps you remember, in February, when you introduced a new budget, a novel, one of your marketing heads was that you reduced it - 80 billion, 100 billion and so on. I was performing here, and I was trying to show it in the right light. I told you that a whole bunch of these so-called adjustments are nothing but tricks, accounting tricks, budget tricks. I was showing one thing after another, where I think it was a trick. I said, let's wait for half a year or the end of the year, and I'll try to prove to you that it was nothing but cheating. So let's stop at one thing and that's renewables. Renewable energy sources - I don't talk about why it came about, how it came out, how there was a solar tunnel and so on, we all know - the state unfortunately has to pay year after year around 26 billion crowns. Sometimes it's 27, sometimes 25, sometimes 29, it's not important now. Yes, unfortunately, that is the tax in quotation marks that we have to pay for mistakes in previous years. Unfortunately, we have planned for this year that it will again be 26 billion crowns. This has been discussed at an expert level, and in our opinion, the budget has been prepared by our government in a factual and correct manner. You came up with the fact that it wouldn't be 26 billion crowns, but that you could save on this, that it would be 19 billion crowns. Even President Zeman, who was here - he liked it - commended you for that. Not that we don't like it if it's 19 billion, but that would have to change the law, and it would have to be said to all those solar investors that they're not getting anything. I thought to myself, well, maybe you'd make up your mind, maybe you'd do it, but I knew it was nothing but a trick, because you said, "Let's just wait and see what happens." But the electricity prices were high, it got lost, God knows how bright the sun was, and so on. We already knew how the sun was shining in 2021, because it was decided in 2022, and the expert estimate of 26 billion was accurate, was correct. I told you you'd have to get it back, and that you'd be deprived of quotes plus or minus 7 billion crowns. No, you gave 19 billion crowns to come and put it back again, to be exact, 6,6 billion crowns. So it's not CZK 7 billion, we're down CZK 400 million, you're wrong about CZK 6.6 billion. It consists of two amounts, four billion crowns plus 2.6 billion crowns, so you're back where we were, you just have to look it up. I'd like you to explain. The second thing is the Department of Transport. I'll start with a positive one. I wanted to thank you for actually giving back to the Ministry of Transport the 5 billion crowns, which is compensation for tax revenue. That's the cancellation of the road tax. We can talk about whether it was the right decision or the wrong decision, maybe we don't agree on it, but I was really worried that you would leave the Department of Transport behind and that you wouldn't put the money there. You played fair on this, and you put the money back, so that's the good news. What is worse - I didn't even want to open it because I thought we were going to do it up to budget 2023, but, Minister, you opened it, so logically I have to respond to it - it's the investment actions and logically related planning in 2023 at the Ministry of Transport. [[It is noted that this is also the year 2024.]] And 2024 at the Department of Transport, right, even the medium-term view is there, even for 2025. Mr. Secretary, I've just been on the SFDI Committee. You know him very well, you went there as a member of the Supervisory Board. If I were to show what Minister Kupka showed there, you would pierce me there in exactly the right way immediately after I presented this budget, because at this time there are 150 billion crowns in the budget, which I will not dispute, it is basically the workers who put it right, it is according to the request of the Railway Administration, ŘSD and so on. Covering this budget is a few weeks before the final budget of CZK 94 billion. You know very well, there are 56 billion crowns missing. After being a member of the Supervisory Board asked what the Minister of Transport wanted to cover it with, the first thing he said to me was that it was an inappropriate question. Please, if we've got it covered from more than a third? But the devil took it. The second thing is that he said he had a fan of financial instruments. Is he making fun of us? Fan of financial instruments a few weeks before the budget? So we have to say definitely that either we want it to be 150 billion crowns, and we're going to finance it from that and from that, and let's talk about what the financial instrument is supposed to be. I am fundamentally opposed to it being transferred to the SFDI, or to the Railway Administration, so that they can take credit. But that's another thing, I'll take that as some kind of professional debate. But we don't know from what sources it's going to be, what interest it's going to be. We have a few weeks before the final budget, and we are short of CZK 56 billion for transport. But beware, Minister, this money has been missing since the end of June. It hasn't changed at all. As you put the first version of the budget, of course, there was a panic on the traffic, and I expected that in those two months something would be created, that something would come up with some normal proposal, maybe it wouldn't be 150, that it would take 140 or 135 billion. I wouldn't like it, we'd probably criticize it, we'd probably show what could be built, but in the finals, we'd see it coming. But it's getting worse for us, the situation. I estimated that it would take some CZK 140, 145 billion to transport. I understand that because it's about to get expensive and so on, it's 150 billion in the end. But we're in a situation where we're totally exposed. I can't imagine this happening in a normal situation, coming in front of the Supervisory Board and saying that I have a budget this exposed and that I don't know what I'm covering it from. So that's next year. The argument that better to be given and better to plan in the medium term is true. Yes, we should have put more in there, I agree with you. I don't want to make excuses that it was in the covid age and so on, but that's a little bit of a problem from my point of view. The bigger problem is that we're a few weeks ahead of it, and you have absolutely no cover. And we've always secured the money for that transport. Yes, there was a big jump - from 86 billion we jumped in my line of work to some 130 billion. I haven't criticized the year 2022, although I might as well poke, but I'm keeping it. This is just part of it, and basically the year 2022 is going to play quite well, but the year 2023 is a big mess. The fact that Minister Kupka has planned somewhere around 200 billion for the next few years sounds brilliant, but I wonder what it's going to be financed from. So, Minister, you don't have, for 2023, basic things like a tariff, and - perhaps the most tilted thing - energy support. You have uncovered investment from at least one third, and you blame us for not putting more into the medium term in 2021 at the time of the covid - yes, we could really put more - that we didn't put more into the medium term. What have you been doing all year? You must have known. What have you prepared for these past few weeks? Nothing at all. I don't want to find out if it's the Ministry of Finance's fault or the Ministry of Transport. For us, you threw the Department of Transport overboard at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u105	Thank you. This was with priority the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Karel Havlíček. His speech raised one factual remark, with which the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is registered. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u106	I'm not gonna let this debate over budget 2023, let's really keep that until the beginning of October, when the proposal is here, it doesn't make any sense. I want to appreciate that Vice-President Havlíček has noticed that we have fulfilled our promise, and I left the money in transport there, so this is how it's going to be next year, so be cool. Relax, we'll talk about it in October. I hope you'll say you were wrong when you were here on September 7th, that the money wouldn't be there. But on top of that, the POZE. Well, of the 6.6 billion, what's 4.6 billion, Mr. Vice-President? You confirmed it on a microphone like I did... That's POZE forgiveness. That's not a bad guess. So, yes, that estimate was wrong by $2 billion, and I think that's still the figure that we're talking about when we see the budget. So if there was an estimate, it wasn't a 7 billion error, but 2. I didn't want to question it, my department's calculations show that there's less money needed. Okay, we figured we'd talk about it at the end of the budget. But 4.6 billion is not a miscalculation, no marketing trick. It is a conscious decision of the government - for October, November and December, POZE pays instead of households, institutions and companies. I think we can agree on that. That means, it's not true that the state would have paid 27 billion this year if we hadn't forgiven him - but that's another story - tops 21. So we were wrong about two, and you were wrong about six. Six is three times more than two, neither of us hit it exactly. At the end of the year, we'll say, I think it's going to be less than 21, but 4.6 isn't a miscalculation. I read that you welcomed the decision that we reset it for those three months, but that's not a false guess. That's why we're paying for them, and that's why the cost of the state budget is increasing. If you think it's 27, and if you suggest the same thing, there's plus 4.6 or 26, I'm sorry. Isn't that right? That means there'd be 30. [[Time!]] So the mistake was still on your side. Ours, too, but smaller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u107	Please observe two minutes. So now no one with a factual comment is making any more comments. The President of the ODS club, Marek Benda, reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u108	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the agreement of the MPs, I would ask that we take a half-hour lunch break now, because we are running late, some of us have to sit here permanently, they have no chance of eating, and there is some agreement that we should finish today. So we'd like to take a half-hour lunch break, during which time the organizing committee would sit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u109	As is agreed across the clubs, so now this break is announced, let us put it until 13.15, let it be rounded up, and at the same time I warn the members of the organizing committee, because it is convened at 14 o'clock, when we are very likely to continue acting in order to meet in room 106, where the organizing committee is classically held, at 13 o'clock. That means we should be able to do the negotiations without a problem, because it is very brief today. So please, I repeat once again for the members of the Organizing Committee, I'll meet you in room 106 at 13:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 13.15 hours. I'll wait a little longer. We're good to go. Given that the factual remarks have been exhausted in the final contribution, another duly entered into the debate is Mr Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u111	Thank you so much for the floor. I'm going to be really brief, I'd say factual. When I was looking for a budget proposal for 2022, a March tweet popped up for me by the Minister of Finance. I will read it here: "The government unanimously approved the draft budget for 2022, the deficit of 280 billion, 100 billion less against Alena Schillerová and Andrej Babiš's proposal, 140 billion less against the outcome of 2021. It goes without raising taxes." This was a tweet in which he actually put the budget into life after a three-month budget commission by the Minister of Finance, and at this point we see that this does not apply. Expenditure in the March budget of 2022 was increased to CZK 758 billion in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They are now increasing by a total of 2.7 billion to CZK 784 billion in Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Before we get to the individual items, what it is. What is it? Several policies follow from this budget. It is certainly an extraordinary assessment of pensions, when they have increased extraordinarily to seniors, but also to others, such as widows, widowers, disabled people, pensions due to the law that is the insurance against inflation. However, this law itself, because we did not use it so often, pointed to the inequality of pensions, when this inflation increase is now reflected in the merit section, and then there are huge differences between low-income pensioners and those with a high pension. I think it is time to open the debate in the context of the pension reform to increase the basic part of the pension. We are already discussing this in the YES movement to make their redistribution more equal, or, for example, to discuss other aids that would compensate pensions for lifelong or caring pensioners. In the last parliamentary term, for example, we accepted the $500 as a raised child. Thus, pension reform will certainly be the subject of this parliamentary term in the future. If we look at the inequalities in pensions that have emerged due to this extraordinary valorisation, but mainly to the demographic curve of our republic, which is slightly above average in terms of birth rate in Europe, but insufficient in terms of the future of the ongoing pension system, it is necessary to look very seriously and cautiously, especially in terms of family support. I think that is precisely the key issue of maintaining the stability of the whole system. The promotion of the birth rate is linked to a number of aspects, with some of our values, which we recognise, but also to the promotion of housing, employment, education. We have seen that this government has added, for example, an encore to a child. It is also, of course, to encourage the prevention of families against their decay, their opposite and the message from politicians that family matters, even the wider one, and that moms and dads will not be alone in this if we want to help them. Therefore, I am sorry that I did not find a specific item in the materials submitted by the Ministry of Finance regarding the prevention of family policy. But I believe that if it was 150 million crowns in the last budget, which is really little, it remained the same. Now let's look at the individual items. There revenues increase by 9 billion, total spending by 26 billion crowns. The 9 billion, these are pension insurance premiums and sickness insurance, which have increased as income to this budget. And that's why I have my first question here, Minister. When income on insurance contributions increased de facto, how is it possible that unemployment support expenditure also increased by CZK 1 billion at once? What is it? If it isn't because there are now perhaps money back there at the moment, which should have just improved the marketing budget, which was after the provisional budget in March. [[13.20 hours]] When we look more specifically at spending, we see, of course, that expenditure increased in addition to unemployment support, namely pension insurance benefits of CZK 11 billion, where proper valorisation, of course, was reflected, but also extraordinary pension valorisation, welfare benefits and foster care of CZK 8.5 billion. Probably there, which we also can't germinate, it did either increase the additions to the child or the contribution to housing. I would also ask too much if we could make it more difficult because, in addition to the addition to the child and the contribution to housing, for example, the parent did not play any major role in this because the parent was not raised. I don't think the birth and burial charges have waved at it in any way. My main concern is the 1 billion for unemployment, because plus or minus, of course, unemployment did not go away, which is 3.2 to 3.3 % in the Czech Republic. Then we have sickness insurance benefits, where expenses increased by CZK 3 billion. I probably understand that. It's probably part of the refugee crisis. 610 million here we have benefits of assistance in material distress. There it probably bounced off, we believe, with extraordinary immediate assistance, but also whether it is possible to distinguish and germinate the amount of the allowance for a living. Then there's, I guess, a housing supplement, and the third amount, as I say, is extraordinary immediate assistance. I would be very interested, and that actually has to do with my other questions, that what actually increased expenditure on state social support? Was it more in the child allowance budget or in the housing allowance? And for those benefits in material distress, was it for extraordinary immediate help? The benefits of disabled persons increased to CZK 320 million, it was probably also added there because in March it was somehow under-sanctioned. I also wonder, how much has been paid for the humanitarian benefit of 5,000? I've got my last numbers two months ago, and now I don't know, because I just don't have the current numbers for those 400,000 refugees, how many times it's paid off, which means how many times it's done. This is actually related to the solidarity contribution to accommodation for those who help those refugees, and I have already mentioned the use of immediate assistance. Of course, the other thing I am interested in is that this government has actually increased CZK 3.2 billion in terms of financing social services. It is actually in the lower one, I would say a safe border when we have safely delivered to social services, but I believe that this is still not enough, because, as I said yesterday, and I repeat it over and over again on the Committee on Social Policy, the Association of Regions and the Association of Social Services Providers wanted 4.5 billion, and we are going to make an amendment in a similar vein, because I believe that it is precisely with the increase in the prices of all energy, inflation and so on that we are going to repeat it all the time, that social services will not be able to come out here if they do not bail out and finance them by the end of this year of the region, municipalities or perhaps some European funds, which I do not think is already on the agenda of the day, because it is nearing the end of the year and these requests had to be passed on last year. On the contrary, for what I wanted to thank, so this is an increase of 10 percent for all employees, for example, for the employment offices that I have much to bear in mind, because they were always on top of the income of all organizations, so I can see there, because the employment offices are really... I would say that they are collapsing just under the weight of all that we are experiencing here, because we have really put all the changes on them since the beginning of this year. They have a great responsibility, pay change in addition to all humanitarian and solidarity benefits for refugees, for example, in the case of parental allowance, change in the housing allowance by increasing normalities. Also the digitization of a 500-thousand-dollar contribution, which works kind of in half of the gas, I would almost say that digitalization doesn't work on the housing allowance, because... Okay, so I'm gonna go back to the 500 grand donation. There is a problem, for example, about whether they pair at all - which I have information that they are not pairing - and can you answer that? It's from the financial office that all this information is going to go to the people who are going to do it, because we know that it's going to pay off a little bit later - I know they have 30 days to do it, but I've already got so much news that it just couldn't pay off, because it's where the communication of the financial administration's systems is happening with what the authorities are asking for. It's a different situation with the housing allowance, there it really is, the digitization that works halfway through the gas, and they say that 100% of the applications are really minimal, so every time they print them out and the reporters discuss them, they have to, and that's too much delaying them, contacting clients back to deliver the necessary information according to the law just for the housing allowance, but that's probably not such a big deal. So I've asked questions, of course I'm open to any debate. Once again, I want to appeal to the social cushion, some of the trampoline that you always talk about so nicely, that these people will really be bailed out as quickly as possible during autumn and winter. It really seems that way, and we witnessed the demonstration on Saturday. Of course, we as Members are also overwhelmed by various citizens in our mailboxes by information that they simply and simply fear that autumn and winter will not be able to cope - not because there is no gas, but because they cannot, of course, handle the accounts. So I wonder what the government will come up with. We're mapping all this very carefully, I'd say with our jargon, we're shadowing, and of course we're going to be open to any debate and any help, because here I think we have to pull together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u112	Thank you. With a factual application, Mr Igor Hendrych is here. Please prepare the Member of Parliament to Navrátil. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I will follow up on my colleague Juchelka, and I would also like to thank you for adding 10 percent not only to employees for the employment offices, but I have a question. I don't know if the Minister of Finance will answer me, Minister Jurečka? That amount hasn't changed in the new budget, and yet it's added by 10 percent, so just a technical question, whether it was enough in the original budget, or how this thing, this addition, is being bailed out. And then the question of welfare benefits and foster care, where we add CZK 8.5 million. I haven't been able to dig up how much of this money is intended directly for the housing allowance. Yes, I've been trying to do this all morning, we've been communicating with the Ministry, and somehow we haven't reached the total number, because the information I have from my February budget was that three billion crowns have been added to the housing allowance, and now we have some aggregate sum, where I assume that the sum is still going up in some way. So many of my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u114	Thank you, and another sign-in with fact is Mr Navrátil. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you, to my colleague Juchelek. I don't know how people don't have paid child contributions of CZK 5,000 when they were able to apply on the web at the earliest on 15 August. That means we don't have September 15th, so 30 days haven't passed, so the Department of Labour and Social Affairs still has eight days on the first applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u116	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Aleš Juchelka is now registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u117	Yes, yes, that is true, however, for child allowances, which were CZK 270 000 and there actually started to pay in some way completely during the beginning of August or maybe July, so some do not, too, these 5 000 crowns. But I'm not arguing about this at all or anything here, I'm just saying that there are major complications at the Labor Office for all the officials of the Labor Office with just announced and I'd say a lot of bloated quick quapi digitalization prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And I'm saying this specifically for these two items, and that's for the housing allowance, and that's also for the five thousand one-off contribution. The complications are simply there, they are badly communicated with them, with those officials, they have almost no training that would have been before, they are thrown into the water, they collapse sometimes too, and they need to be strengthened at the municipal offices of the Czech POINTs, especially in the Moravian-Silesian Region, but also in Ústeck, when they are all de facto completed for them, so digitalization really should be a bit of a success - not because someone can fill it out, that's clear, we have a lot of people here who don't even have Internet, which is why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is here, but the 500-thousand contribution should, of course, be for those who have a million pure, and there I think everyone might already have digitalization in some way, they are doing it, but unfortunately feedback from the referents is like this, because on the other side someone has to sit, and it is not as automatic as some would imagine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u118	Minister Stanjura is now in office. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u119	I would like to ask Mr Juchelka to give Minister Jurečka a specific example of the child allowance. That's not really possible. There was no request, no test, only raised the amount of 5,000 per child on a regular basis, which pays off, so that the children's allowance was increased in that month. Yes, of course, it wasn't tested in addition to children, it's tested in addition to children, so that doesn't even... this way - it didn't have to be tested, so it didn't have to be applied for. I consider it almost impossible that it could be some kind of mass phenomenon or some percentage, not even that. If it's individual, there must have been something... for example, a change in the account where child allowance is to be sent. So we don't get scared of something that isn't. Digitization is a big step forward, not that - if you look at how many hundred thousand applications have been dealt with within a few days, remind me of another state agenda where hundreds of thousands of applications... Don't worry, it's being tested, it's not a million pure, a million gross, but it's being tested - first of all, from the pension register, you have those who are employed covered by tax returns such as those who are not in employment. That's why there's a 30-day deadline to be tested. The only reason why they have to ask is that the state has not yet been available - and I am not criticizing it, I am just stating - an account number. We have the registers, we know the parents and the children, we know the receipts, but what we didn't know, unlike the group to which the child allowance was sent, we didn't know the bank account number, and that was actually an essential part of the application. I think it's good to ask, and I'm not able at this point, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, to then after a month, but to do statistics on how many applications they accepted for the first month, how many they paid in 10 days, in 20 days, in 30 days, then I think we can evaluate success or not. I think the app is user-friendly. [[Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u120	Mr Juchelka is once again signed up with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u121	I am not criticizing it in some way, this digital rush here, of course, on the contrary, I find that this is also a big step forward, however, I say that since the beginning of this year, there have been a lot of agendas for various changes from parental allowance, additions to children, changes in foster care, payment of humanitarian contribution of 5,000, solidarity contribution to accommodation, one-off five thousand contribution, and at this point we may probably still make energy advisors to the employment offices. So I'm here defending the officials, the employees, and I also thanked you for finally increasing their salaries after 20 months, that as simple as this government here says, with digitization it's not that it's practically really particularly for the housing allowance, it's a success. And that's just the way it is. Ask them directly at the offices of people's work at the bulkheads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u122	Now she wants to respond with the factual remark of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u123	Thank you. I have an example, Minister, when hundreds of thousands of applications paid off in the order of days, it was our compensation bonus and it was the Financial Administration, so it was just a reminder. I will support my colleague, Mr Aleš Juchelka, because I have spent three days on a trip to the Moravian-Silesian Region, we have visited a number of cities - I am sure you are also close to this region, you have run for it - and there we have not only spoken to the people who have told us these stories, and I really, Ambassador, your name - my fault for not knowing, I apologize through the President, but I will not, or would be ashamed to tell them, wait eight more days, because the time has not passed. You know, maybe try going out with these guys, but they came to see us, especially me, even a bunch of employees at the Labor Office, I'm not gonna tell cities not to put anybody in trouble, but groups, like, they were pauses, and they were just telling us specifically, they were telling me, and it wasn't in the same town, how they're swamped and in what situation they're in, and, of course, it happens to me in Brno, too. So I support what my colleague Aleš Juchelka said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u124	Mr Juchelka reports with another factual statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u125	I just want to remind myself of these questions, whether we're going to get an answer to them in any way in this discussion or not, or until... or at all, or how it's going to be, Minister, because I've raised some questions, so whether I should expect them to be handled at this point or at the end or what it's going to look like? I'm begging you to tell us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u126	Furthermore, Mr Král wants to respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u127	I'm just trying to lighten up like this at lunchtime. I don't want to speak for the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister here, they can defend themselves, but it's probably hard to answer that right now. You, on the one hand, as a opposition, say that our government does nothing for these people, and on the other hand, you've been blaming us a lot of how many programs we've written for these people, and how much we're trying to help them. Of course, sometimes those applications can be done faster, better, more efficiently, that's something that we can learn and do, but you have to answer the basic question: So are we doing something for these people or are we not doing something? I think that right now you've shown here that this current government is doing quite a lot for the people in the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u128	He also wants to respond with a factual remark by Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u129	The fundamental question, of course, is whether you're helping, as it was in that last election season, when you weren't there, and you weren't there, but you were in opposition, if you were helping enough and fast enough. And I'm afraid neither of these things apply to this government, so it's just so beautifully caressed on the surface. And you're right. We can talk about individual aid items here, but together it doesn't really help the families, because it isn't really a major solution, like we see in the surrounding countries of Europe, where I would actually say it more across the board, but they took on specific items such as VAT forgiveness, pricing and so on. So I'm just talking about how hard it is at the office. We have even opened up a point on the Committee on Social Policy, where we will discuss this further, and more specifically with the Directorate-General of the Labour Office. And I myself said thank you so much for raising their salaries by 10 percent. However, the help is simply not sufficient and is not quick, because, as we have heard from the opposition here in the last parliamentary term: Who helps quickly, helps twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u130	Furthermore, with a factual remark, Vice-President Havlíček is registered, and then Mr Hendrych. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u131	I will briefly respond, Mr Král, through Madam President, to you, and at this point in a positive sense, because from my point of view, you may be the only person in five-calice who understands energy, can comment on it and know what is being played for. But the support, it's really pathetic. I would take her, the social support, the way she is, assuming energy support works. Then we can talk about it if it's even faster, if 14 forms can be reduced to five forms or three forms - I'd quite take that. But if you really look around, it's some kind of balance of socio-energy support. And since the energy-saving tariff - and we're talking about households, I don't take companies at all, it's a complete fiasco, there hasn't been anything done, and what's said here about companies, that something has been done there for energy-intensive fields, it's not at all, we all know that, the question of the current energy crisis, but the prices of emission allowances, which was still for us, it's for fifty companies, it's done nothing for companies, and for households nothing at all - you know very well that the energy-saving tariff is a disaster and we can't dodge from it. That's not even a criticism of Minister Síkela anymore, that's just a statement of sad fact. If there's such support and there's this social support next door, where they're trying to do it in some way, so let's take it and talk about what we can do faster. But in sum, it's a real fiasco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u132	Now, therefore, Mr Hendrych's factual remark and Mrs Oulehlová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u133	Thank you, I'll be brief. Also, through the President, to Mr Král. In the area of housing allowance, when we talk about comprehensive aid, you really are not helping much, or, respectively, the aid has not changed since last year, because only 20, 25 percent of eligible households still receive the housing allowance, even though you have expanded the range of beneficiaries that you have introduced normalities, they have made advertising in every way for this social policy tool, but you do not succeed. That is why I asked at the beginning - I still don't have an answer yet, I believe I will see it sometime later - if you have increased the amount of the housing allowance in the new budget, because you have already raised it by 3 billion this year. Now it looks like there's gonna be another amount in the new budget. And I'm curious about the state's final account because I have a theory that you won't even need the money. You won't need them in my opinion, or you'll only use a small part of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u134	Mrs Oulehlová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u135	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I would just like to join what has been said here by my colleagues, especially Mr Juchelka. The situation at the employment offices is ruthless. The government helps in the way that it puts everything on the community, because even the payout of the 5,000 should have been mainly on the post office, which is actually a state organization. It didn't work from the start, everyone had to come to our office at the Czech POINT. We've been really, really overwhelmed. I have to say, for example, as far as the 10 percent increase for civil servants is concerned, we're supposed to find it in our own budgets. It's like a nice gesture - let's raise 10 percent and find the money for it. So I would just like to repeat again that a large part of all the problems, actually, should concern the refugee crisis, whatever it may be, will fall into cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u136	Now, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura is registered, and I just want to remind you that at 13.50 we have a fixed electoral point - very brief, quick. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u137	I was a local politician for 17 years, so it kind of reminded me of this Cimrman guy, he'd like to have a pub so no one would go. So either that Czech POINT is there as a public service or not. I understand from the deputies that they ideally build Czech POINT and no one goes there. I have the total data when you say runaway, it's a refugee crisis, beyond cities and villages. I will not count the humanitarian donations that the council itself has decided, which no one can want to compensate the state at the moment the council grants a humanitarian gift, so all other expenses are refunded from the state budget. And there's the paradox again. So we give very little, and Mr Hendrych says that you will still have the money. Take your pick, take your pick. They can't pay both sentences at once again. You give too little, and you have too much money in that budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u138	Mr Juchelka, with a factual remark, wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u139	It's not about how many people it is. [[With laughter.]] You yourself say that you're doing some kind of deštník versus expensive, and it just doesn't work and it just doesn't work. Let's face it. I will repeat these questions again for the Minister of Finance, because I would like to hear answers. Again, because he probably didn't remember it or mark it. If income on insurance contributions has increased, how is it possible that unemployment support expenditure has suddenly increased by CZK 1 billion, which has, of course, remained at 3.3 percent. I also wondered how much was paid out of the budget at the moment, because we cannot find there - the humanitarian levy of 5,000, the solidarity contribution to accommodation and extraordinary immediate assistance. And what also led to an increase in expenditure on state social support? If we're going to go into this, for example, we can say, yes, we've been helping here or here. For the housing allowance, for the child allowance, for the supplement, for the midwife, I don't know myself. You know that? Because you have the guts of that budget. So I ask you very much to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-003-030.u140	So now there are two more entries with a factual remark, but as I have announced, at 13.50 we have a fixed point. And I'm going to start with the apologies that were loaded here. I would like to interrupt the discussion of item number 30, which we will return to immediately after the discussion of point 132, and, of course, those who are logged in with factual remarks will be given the floor first. I am now interrupting item 30. I'm gonna load up a few apologies. Babka Ondřej apologizes from 14:00 for work reasons, Bělor Roman apologizes from 13:55 hours for work reasons, Bžoch Lubomír apologizes from 12:30 to 15:00 for work reasons - but I don't think we have Mr Lubomír here, we have Mr Bžoch Jaroslav, so this is some error, but immediately Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is excused, which is correct, from 14:00 to 19:00 - working reasons, Mr Faltýnek apologizes from 13:15 for work reasons, Mr Jiří Hájek apologizes from 13:59 hours for work reasons, Mr Jan Hofmann apologizes from 15:00 for personal reasons, Jakub Janda apologises from 14:00 for business reasons, Pražák David from 15:00 for working reasons and Wenzl Lubomír from 14:00 for work reasons. That's all the excuses I've got so far. [[13.50 hours]] We have 13.50, which is the time for a fixed point, which is a point number.
