ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-008-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws /house print 330/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Local Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-008-021.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the same time, I also welcome the fact that there has been a merger of the debate and, in fact, the order of negotiation of these two bills, which, while coming from the pen of two different ministries, cannot be considered separately in the complex of solving the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic, and the logic of the matter, as Minister Kupka mentioned here, is better to start with the complex of the design of the construction law. [[12.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are beginning to discuss the bill amending Building Act No. 283/2001 Coll., as amended, and some other related laws. As you all know, the Government of the Czech Republic has committed, among other things, to submitting an amendment to the new construction law in order to ensure a rapid, transparent, digital and citizen close to the construction process. First of all, let me summarize the steps that have already been taken by the Czech Government to implement this declaration in the Government's programming declaration. The first step was the so-called fold-out amendment to the new construction law, which was adopted by Parliament of the Czech Republic and declared in the Collection of Laws as Act No. 195/2022 Coll. This amendment introduced the so-called transitional period, which postponed the actual implementation of the construction administration led by the Supreme Building Authority. The purpose of this amendment was to prevent actually the change, and from our point of view the undesirable change, in terms of the destruction of the building process, and to buy time to prepare a substantive amendment to the construction law, which represents the second step of the government of the Czech Republic to fulfill the programme statement and which we all have on our table today. The submitted substantive amendment to the new construction law was discussed in detail with the broad professional public as well as with professional chambers, municipalities and regions, passed a full review procedure and a consensus was found in most key areas. In fact, at the moment of the hearing, the government was approved unanimously. Just before this law went to the government, there was an important meeting where we agreed on some further steps to discuss this legislation, and the work continues. I would just briefly introduce to you the changes that are the subject of a substantive amendment to the new construction law. The first and, from my point of view, a fundamental change is institutional change. The proposed proposal abolishes the creation of a comprehensive state building administration which, in view of the necessary material, personnel and other equipment, would be a significant burden for the budget of the Czech Republic. As we declared as a government, we return decisions back to where they belong, to the territory. Therefore, in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, representatives of self-government will be a fundamental part of the system of construction administration, municipal authorities in municipalities with extended scope and then other municipal authorities, which will now establish a decree by the Ministry of Regional Development. I'm just gonna go back to that a little bit. Of course the rationalization of the building system is important in the case - and I have since the debate or what we have prepared this substantive amendment, as well as a lot of relevant letters from the management of the various municipalities that they might consider the possibility of merging the building office - why the decree, have in the law written by the construction authorities in the event of any knowledge from the region and from the territory to any further change, to open the law for this would be undesirable, so the bearer of where the construction office is everywhere and where it will continue is part of the Ministry's decree on local development. The second part of the system will then be the regional construction offices. As a first-instance building agency, they will assess the construction of super-local significance, such as buildings that are subject to environmental impact assessment, and will continue to perform the function of a superior body towards municipal construction offices. The municipal authorities and regional authorities will carry out activities in the section on the authorisation of delegated buildings. As a further part of the system, the proposed amendment leaves as a state body the Specialised and Appealing Building Authority, which will decide on strategic and larger constructions, in particular significant constructions of transport and technical infrastructure, and which will carry out its de facto activity from 1. 7. 2023, to which I believe we are heading successfully. This novel doesn't change anything. The Ministry of Regional Development will be the central administrative body in the construction planning section of the construction order instead of the Supreme Building Office. Another important change from my point of view is the change in the concept of integration of the institutions concerned, from their integration de facto within the purely state building administration to the integration of procedural appropriate levels. The result is, inter alia, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the incorporation of the so-called Single Environmental Opinion - the other press that we are discussing in the merged debate - which will be a binding position in terms of all public environmental interests, as a basis for the building authority in the project authorisation procedure. In the area of spatial planning, territorial development policy will be returned to the construction law, which will set out, inter alia, national priorities for spatial planning and determine which corridors and areas, in particular transport and technical infrastructure, will be the subject of a solution to the territorial development plan. The amendment also strengthens the competence of the regional council and the municipal council, which will, for example, decide on the acquisition and approval of territorial measures, in particular building closures. Greater emphasis will also be placed on applying the requirements for adaptation of settlements and landscapes resulting from climate change or on working with renewable energy sources. From the point of view of the construction order, there are several partial changes, mainly linked to the change of the construction administration system. In the context of the examination procedures, a waiver is then proposed to apply the appeal principle in the judicial review of the decision, since, in the event of the maintenance of the appeal principle of judicial review, there would undoubtedly be an increase in the number of appeals against those judgments and, ultimately, the objectives of recodification and speeding up the judicial control of the public administration in the field of building law would not be met. Current administrative courts should not replace and intervene in the exercise of executive powers, as this would undermine the principle of division of power and the system of democratic brakes and counterweights. In view of the legal certainty of all participants in the process under the construction law due to the absolute difference of procedural aspects and procedures under the new construction law compared to the current legislation, it is proposed that the procedures and proceedings initiated will be completed in accordance with the existing legislation and that the building office will be the documentation which has been processed under the existing legislation and submitted up to 30. 6. 2027, also assess according to the existing legislation. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this substantive amendment prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic, which we have on the table today, will ultimately achieve the objectives of recodification of building law with a view to preserving the protection of public interests. Construction and approval of buildings will not be at the expense of resignation to protect them and, thanks to the abolition of unnecessary and overpriced new systems, which would not have enough experts, the state will save billions of crowns on costs related to this transformation. I believe that the construction process will be a really fast, transparent, digital, citizen-near, thanks to this submitted substantive amendment, and the Czech Republic will move significantly in the ranking of quality building management. Finally, I would like to ask that, when we discuss this proposed amendment to the Construction Act, we try to move beyond the main political disagreement, which was the matter of institutional change and transfer to the pure government, because, even in the proposal - which the government is submitting - the amendments to the Construction Act, what we, as opposition parties, were preparing and what we consider a good solution, is preserved in this proposal. And I believe that, for example, in the House negotiations, we will be able to push this thing a little further, so that really the final consensus can be reached and that together we will propose a solution that will be beneficial for society and for construction, municipalities and public interests authorities, accelerating, transparent and good for its subsequent digitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-008-021.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, and this is Mr Robert králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-008-021.u4	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Allow me to speak briefly here in the role of rapporteur and to introduce the proposed law. The proposed amendment to the Construction Act includes, in particular, the modification of the construction administration system and the related modification of the competence of the individual stages of the construction administration and the related procedural amendments to the approval of construction projects. The proposed legislation is governed by the following principles: 1. In the institutional field, the Supreme Building Office will be abolished, whose competence will be taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development. In this respect, the current situation remains. The aim of the proposal is therefore to prevent the establishment of another relatively independent central administration. 2. Cancellation of regional construction offices and maintenance of a mixed model of public administration. The draft law will preserve the mixed model of public administration in the building authorisation section. The draft law will thus preserve the competence of regional authorities and municipal authorities as construction offices. 3. Maintaining the institutional framework of the Specialised and Appellate Building Office, which will be the competent building office in matters of reserved buildings. 4. Strengthening the role of self-government in the process of taking territorial measures. The proposed regulation consists of the division of competences in the procurement process between self-government and state administration to a similar extent as in the procurement of land-use planning documentation. Thus the municipality, the council of the municipality or the council of the region, decides on the acquisition, issues territorial measures, while the competent authority of the zoning planning will ensure its acquisition. 5. Re-establishing territorial development policy as a strategic tool for regional planning at national level, to the extent of existing territorial development policy. The relationship of territorial development policy to the territorial development plan is maintained within the scope of existing legislation, i.e. Act No. 183/2006 Sb. 6. Amendment of the provisions in the new construction law related to the change in the structure of the construction administration compared to the applicable construction law to the necessary extent. The proposal contains three headings of necessary modifications. First heading: adaptation of the institutional model of public administration performance in the construction law section. Secondly: adaptation of territorial planning and strengthening the role of self-government. Thirdly: adjustments to the section of the building law of the material and to the section of the construction order. So short a news report. I will then join the discussion with my own opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-008-021.u5	Thank you, and I am therefore opening up a general debate on all three points at the moment. This is a merged debate.
