ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u1	120. Current situation in Ukraine I ask that the words be taken on behalf of the appellant, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Bartošek, who will agree to become his rapporteur at the same time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u2	Thank you for the floor. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Madam President, honourable Members, this item has been placed on the agenda of today's meeting and has been included on the proposal of the two coalitions, whether the coalition of the SPOLU, as well as the coalition of the Pirates and STAN. And it is the position of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the situation in Ukraine and the massacre in Buč.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u3	I'm begging you, Mr. Vice-President. I ask my colleague and colleagues to remain calm so that we can hear the proponents of this point in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u4	Let me start by thanking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for my cooperation in the creation of this resolution, while at the same time explaining why I have proposed this point today. It is for our government to have a clear mandate from Members, from those who are elected by citizens of the Czech Republic, so that the government clearly knows how strong it can be and must also be and what its position is in addressing the current security crisis in Europe caused by Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine and the unprecedented brutality of Russian troops towards civilians. We had the opportunity to see photos of murdered civilians, innocent victims, women and children who could withstand comparison with genocide in Srebrenica or SS troops during World War II. It is important that we clearly state where evil lies in this conflict and who represents it, where good is and what is the position of our state. At the same time, it is also clear that citizens should be able to see where the representatives of individual political parties stand, so that it is clear who condemns this invasion, or whether someone who wants to reduce or justify these crimes, the war crimes of Russia. It is also necessary to say that the countries of Central Europe and the Pobaltí States in this crisis show the moral path to other partners in the European Union and also in NATO. It is a signal and inspiration for all our partners in Europe that our position is firm and that it is necessary to be united and uncompromising with Russia, because the actions of the Russian army cannot be erased by an apology, political agreement, agreement or some justification for the economic advantage of something. It is clear that this unprecedented and brutal attack by Russia must be followed by the disengagement of all Russian banks from SWIFT. We must fight Russia's propaganda hard and at the same time block all Russia's misinformation and lying channels. It is also necessary to start working to provide asylum for Russian deserters, but also to work actively to exclude the Russian Federation from all international organizations, because the right of veto in the UN Security Council is one of the things that makes it impossible to provide help, bring food, water and medicine and bring people out of the war hell from Mariupol. That is what is happening in Russia today, and that is why it is important for the Chamber of Deputies to take a clear position and give a strong mandate to this government. The system reads the House document under number 680 and I will read the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. Colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for supporting this point, because I firmly believe that we are in a situation where we cannot remain silent about the atrocities committed by the Russian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u5	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take your seat at the rapporteur's table. Now I ask that the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský take the floor and follow Minister Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Russian unilateral and unprovoked aggression against Ukraine has already taken 41 days, and in that time we have heard many lies from Moscow, why and how the Russian army is fighting in Ukraine. Of course, the spooky footage and narratives that came from Buči and other liberated territories on the weekend remind us of her real face. After the fleeing Russian army, we see ruined places and many victims, and it's a really painful sight. Mass executions, brutal torture, rape and abuse of unarmed civilians, defamation killed in the worst conceivable ways. Speaking of stories from Buchi and other liberated territories as disturbing and disgusting is an understatement at the moment. They are barbaric acts and reminiscent of the horrors of World War II. And it needs to be clearly and clearly stated that the Russian army is systematically committing war crimes in Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian authorities, hundreds of civilians died in Buce, and the way it happened shows that the Russian army's clear intention was to kill as many civilians as possible. But it's not just Buča. For example, the mayor of the village of Motyjin was executed with her family because she refused to cooperate. And I think we are rightly concerned about what the Russian army has done in places where observers do not yet have access and where there are still hard fights going on today, such as in Mariupol. But there's a lot of places. This is a clear systematic attempt to break the Ukrainian nation. In a recent article, Russian propaganda explained the concept of deukrainizing society: erasing the Ukrainian nation and its history from the face of the earth. This is the Russian army's mission in Ukraine. And it must be made clear that Russia today is already a Stalinist regime. It brings us back deep into the past and has nothing to do with civilized society. The perpetrators of war crimes, representatives of the regime and the army will answer after the war, I am absolutely convinced of it. Therefore, it is also necessary to document these crimes, to engage them, to talk about them, to point out to them that their culprits, their perpetrators, should rightly pay. [[14.30 hours]] At the same time, it is our job to work as much as possible to support Ukraine - political, military, humanitarian - and I am glad that our government, but also the whole Czech society, is doing so. We must move hard against Russia, and it is our great task to persuade our allies and partners so that the European Union has the strongest position so that the international community has the strongest position until Russia has stopped its aggression and these atrocities in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u7	Thank you. It is now registered with the priority right of Minister Jana Černochová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The war in Ukraine, initiated by Russia on 24 February, has already lasted a second month. Thousands of people lost their lives, soldiers, civilians, including more than hundreds of children, and thousands more were injured. Aggression has sparked the greatest humanitarian crisis in Europe since World War II. More than 10 million people were forced to leave their homes, with more than 4 million people, mostly women and children, already left the country, of which more than 260,000 people left the Czech Republic. Political negotiations are regularly held between the representatives of Ukraine and Russia on the end of the fights, but these negotiations have not yet reached any concrete results. After the failure of the so-called lightning war, Russia's army gave up its efforts to conquer Kiev and began to withdraw from the surrounding Kiev, but continues in missile, artillery and aviation rotations, throughout the territory of Ukraine. Russia is regrouping forces and preparing for offensive towards the east and south of Ukraine. Other Russian troops, including mercenaries from Vagnerův's group, are heading into the Donbas area. The Russian President has approved the involvement of volunteers from abroad in the war in Ukraine, allegedly thousands of Middle East cutthroats, especially from Syria. The Ukrainian general staff assumes that the Russian attack will focus on Kharkov, Mariupol and Odessa. Russia is violating quite fundamental international law in war, humanitarian law, using cluster munitions in bombing, attacking civilian objects, including hospitals and schools. He's bombarding the negotiated, negotiated, approved humanitarian corridors, ladies and gentlemen. Ukraine's troops are acting as a retreating Russian army and have at this time managed to free the area west and east of Kiev. But the population will return slowly to liberated cities and villages, perhaps never to return there. The Russian army is leaving behind the minefields and the underground infrastructure. After the departure of Russian troops from some regions, Ukrajinec find the bodies of killed civilians, so far they have discovered at least 410. Most of the dead were found in Buča, a total of 300. Part of the dead was found in a mass grave, part lying on the street, some with their hands tied. President Zelenskyj accused Russia of genocide in this regard, and I completely agree with him. The situation in Buce will be dealt with today by the UN Security Council at its regular meeting. What else should move the conscience of those who work in the Security Council, other than photos, videos, information of survivors that we can watch in our news or social networks? Ukraine calls on the West to supply military equipment of all kinds. The most necessary are anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons. In addition, Ukraine also calls for further political and economic actions that would affect Russia's economy as far as possible and lead to international isolation of Russia. The Alliance's military authorities are now working on a proposal for a mid- and long-term adaptation of NATO in response to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and a dramatically aggravated security environment. In addition to NATO's new strategic concept, the approval of these adaptation measures will be among the main outcomes of the Madrid Alliance Summit at the end of June. In response to the Russian attack on Ukraine, some Allied countries have already announced their intention to significantly increase defensive spending and thus speed up the implementation of a commitment to defence investment of 2% of GDP. On Sunday, 27 February, Chancellor Scholz announced that Germany would increase its defense spending to 2% of GDP, and a special fund for financing major acquisition projects of EUR 100 billion will be established in Germany as soon as possible. The Baltic countries expect to increase their defense spending to 2,5 percent, and Poland even to 3 percent of GDP. This was also said at the ministry in Brussels from the mouth of the Minister, the Polish Minister of Defence. Our country is still behind the 2%, and I can promise you that I will do everything we can to speed up the acquisition process. I do not use emergency conditions to avoid competitions, competitions continue to be done, all selection procedures of acquisition processes are transparent, only those processes from the start of one acquisition to its end are extremely lengthy for procedural reasons, and this is a matter that we need to change soon by legislation and speed up all processes so that we can reach the desired goal in the horizons of the months, thereby modernising the Army of the Czech Republic. That it's a long run? Yes, it is, but it's all we have, colleagues, that's all we have left. We have come as the Czech Republic, we have come as Europe, as the West, into a situation where we perceive the proximity of war, the war conflict, and when perhaps after so many years, when some people have said in the fight for modernization of the military: what will the tanks be for, what will we do with heavy technology, what will the combat helicopters be for, so now I believe that at least in this House there will be no one colleague or colleague who would think so, and I expect your full support. The Czech Republic responded immediately to requests from Ukraine, both President Zelenský and several times I have been in contact and communicated with Minister Reznikov. We have already supplied Ukraine with a considerable amount of military equipment, and as Prime Minister Fiala has promised to negotiate with President Zelenský, we will continue to supply these supplies. For security reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not, and I don't want to be a secretive person, but for security reasons, I think you'll all understand that I don't want to record murderers with the letter Z and share detailed information about the supplies of our military equipment. [[14.40 hours]] At the same time, I want to assure you that all the material we supply to Ukraine is subject to approval by the Czech Government, and everything is happening again in a transparent way. It's not about me waking up as Secretary of Defense and thinking, "What else could we send them there, and handing out some trains to the general staff? No, everything that is happening is happening with the knowledge of the Government of the Czech Republic and with the knowledge and vote of colleagues, ministers of our government, for which I thank them. I also thank them for keeping the information to themselves, just like me. I'm sure you'd be wondering if I could confirm or disprove the photographs that are orbiting social media. I'm sorry, I won't confirm or disprove them. I can only assure you that the Czech Republic, the government of Petr Fiala, helps Ukraine with its best efforts and will also help military material, the light and the heavy, further. It is in the Czech Republic's life's interest that alliance measures discourage Russia from other territorial requirements and from continuing fighting in Ukraine. It is therefore in our real interest in these measures, whether alliances or military ones, to contribute here. We have strengthened - and thank you for voting in favour of this ten days ago - the forces of NATO's rapid response. We also strengthened the eastern wing by sending combat groups to Slovakia. These days, our first soldiers are starting to operate in Slovakia and are taking command of this battle group. As I announced here at the beginning, our greatest work awaits us at home, here in this House, in this Committee on Defence, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security in the Senate, but also in our departments. We must put our army in a state where we will be fully able to perform the guarantor of our defense, and that is sufficient, well-trained, well-equipped personnel, technology, training, but also supplies. At the end of my speech, I want to thank you for the support I've received from you as the newly appointed Secretary of Defense for 100 days. I really appreciate it. I also appreciate the fact that many colleagues from the Defence Committee or even from this Chamber of Deputies come to me with various other suggestions on what we could do at the Department of Defence. Thank you for that. I've always tried, as chairman of the Defence Committee, to ensure that the defence is a high-profile matter, so that it doesn't play the part of who's wearing a party shirt, but we all stick together. At the end of the rope, the hands that hold the rope are the whole Czech Republic and its citizens. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u9	Thank you, Minister. Just for the record, Mr. Josef Bernard cancels his apology, starting at 14.40 pm. He's already present, so his apology is canceled. I am now initiating a general debate. Members Vojtko and Bžoch signed up for this. I'm applying with priority rights, so I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u10	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We will now continue with the speech by the President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. I consider it my duty to convey to you from the last negotiations that I had the opportunity to do on behalf of the Chamber of Deputies, a great thanks to us yesterday at the meeting, which was in the so-called Slavkov format, where the President of the Austrian Lower House of Parliament, Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, Vice-President of the Parliament of Slovakia, Mr Laurenčík, where we had also invited the President of the Parliament of Ukrainian Ruslan Stefanchuk, a great thanks to the Parliament of Ukraine for how the Czech Republic is helping, both at political, humanitarian and military level. I am witnessed by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, President Žáček, Mr Kolář, who represented the Chamber of Deputies yesterday in this meeting, that the direct testimony of President Stefanchuk, who, at the very moments when he joined us online, came back from the cities of Irpyna and Buča, was really terrifying. When you see in the faces of our colleagues the enormous fatigue, the stress, the fact that they've already been written in their faces, you're wondering how we can help more? I think that they appreciate the actions of the Czech Republic, including the House of Deputies, which adopted a clear condemning resolution on the first day of the war, which clearly sided with Ukraine and defined itself against the aggressor, Putinův's Russia, so it is important to mention here. Because that is simply our collective merit, because we will all remember that the resolution then passed completely unanimously. At the same time, I have had the opportunity to contact Mr Ruslan Stefanchuk more than once in the framework of the negotiations of all the Presidents of Parliaments and the whole of the European Union, and I must say that, in comparison with other countries, the Czech Republic is indeed the one that is at the top of those who are active and helping, not only verbally, not only with declarations, not only with flags, which is certainly also worthwhile but active steps and by encouraging their colleagues from other countries to join us as much as possible. I think it is also appropriate to mention that last week the Czech Republic was visited by the Vice-President of the Parliament of Ukraine, Olexandr Kornienko, who may have also met some of you. He, too, gave a specific thank you. I think it is important that when voting on this, we remember that all such things and the resolutions that we are going to vote here are very much perceived in the battlefield where our partners, our counterparts, are from Ukraine, and that they very and very much appreciate it, and that we should therefore do so. That is why I wanted not only to convey these words to you thanks, but also to support the resolution on which we will vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I am now launching a general debate in which Mr Viktor Vojtko has joined. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Jaroslav Bžoch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u13	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, let me also speak here on the subject of Ukraine, in particular as the Head of Delegation to the Interinstitutional Union, and inform you of the resolution adopted by the Interinstitutional Union on 23 March. The situation in Ukraine, as we all perceive, is appalling. I am in personal contact with several members of the Verkhovné Council of Ukraine, who are also members of the delegation to the Interinstitutional Union. I heard directly from them what's going on in Ukraine, and the testimony is really terrible. [[14.50 hours]] Even at the last General Assembly of the Interinstitutional Union, which took place about two weeks ago, the situation in Ukraine has been discussed in a very significant way and it has not been quite easy. Finally, an extraordinary point has been placed and, following the difficult debate that we, as representatives of our delegation - I, colleague Fifka here from the Chamber of Deputies, Senator Nytra and Senator Horská - participated quite actively within the 12+ group, so, after the big negotiations, managed to adopt a resolution that really clearly identifies what is going on in Ukraine and that it is Russian aggression, and not just a conflict between two countries, which is far from having or would not have the weight that we all know it has. It was approved on 23 March at the meeting of 120 member parliaments of the resolution. There were nine countries against this resolution for your information - namely Bahrain, Belarus, China, Iran, South Africa, Syria, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam and Zimbabwe. Resolution " notes with concern that the war in Ukraine, which threatens the long-term peace and security of the European region, has a broader impact on global security and potentially global economic uncertainty and global complexity; [[1.]] [[2.]] In addition, the resolution condemns the continued Russian use of force against Ukraine as a violation of Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 4 the Charter of the United Nations, including the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity recognised by all Member States of the United Nations; [[3.]] Condemns the use of missiles and artillery by the Russian Federation against civilian objects and populations in violation of international humanitarian law; expresses concern about attacks against medical units and personnel and the incorrect use of military characters, insignia and uniforms of opponents of the Russian Federation in violation of international humanitarian law and appeals to all members of the Interinstitutional Union to immediately join UNFPA, UNICEF and WHO and call for the immediate cessation of all attacks on medical units in Ukraine and to facilitate the safe passage of humanitarian aid and assistance to Ukraine; [[4.]] 5. Calls for full compliance with the rules of international humanitarian law; 6. Urges countries to provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine to alleviate the difficulties now faced by its civilian population caused by this war; 7. Calls on all States capable of helping to open their borders on a humanitarian basis in order to give refuge and support to refugees fleeing Ukraine; calls on Parliaments to make their best efforts in accordance with their responsibilities, mandates to call on their respective national governments to end this act of aggression and to allow the Parties to resolve their disagreements by peaceful and sustainable means; calls on all parliaments of the Member States of the Interinstitutional Union to jointly support all peaceful efforts to descalate the current violent military attack on the population, cities and villages of Ukraine; calls on interested parties to create humanitarian corridors, ensure the safe passage of all civilians, in particular women, children of elderly persons and persons with disabilities and other vulnerable groups, and to respect human rights of refugees in accordance with the UN conventions; [[8.]] [[9.]] [[10.]] [[11.]] Calls on the Member States to do their utmost to facilitate humanitarian aid and support for those fleeing this war and to ensure the full and equal participation of women in peace dialogues among Members of both countries; [[12.]] Calls on Members in both the Russian Federation and Ukraine to support initiatives to end hostile actions and resolve conflicts by peaceful, diplomatic means; [[13.]] Calls on all governments that have an impact on both countries to speed up diplomatic efforts for an immediate ceasefire agreement that will lead the Russian Federation to withdraw its forces from Ukraine; calls on the Interinstitutional Union to use its good services to promote dialogue between Members in both countries in support of diplomatic efforts under a rule-based international order that respects the principles of sovereignty and completely avoid interfering in the internal affairs of the sovereign state, and recommends that the Interconsular Union set up a working group for the situation in Ukraine to facilitate the role of parliaments in the formulation of feasible peaceful solutions." [[14.]] In the context of this resolution, I think that the position of the Czech Republic, as presented by us and by the Czech Government, is quite clear. We are on the side of Ukraine as victims, we see Russia as an aggressor. And I think that we have made quite a significant contribution on this platform to making the resulting resolution clearly naming what it has. At this point, I would like to support the proposed resolution that we are discussing today. At the same time, I would like to thank the Government of the Czech Republic for the actions it has taken, is doing and will still do, and I would also like to express my support for this resolution for myself and for STAN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u14	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Bžoch, who has so far been last logged in, I would like to make another apology, namely, Minister Rakušan, from today's meeting between 14.00 and 14.30 for work reasons, because he is now here. And now I will ask for the latest enrollment, Mr. Bžoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u15	Hello, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, Madam President. I will be very brief and sum up the position for the YES movement. We have started since this crisis started, or rather, let us call it the right words, Russia's aggression against the sovereign state, against free Ukraine, so we have always supported the steps of this government, because we think that it is right, it is important for us to stand united in this situation and support the government in the steps it is doing. What's happening in Ukraine, and unfortunately, I'm convinced that we haven't seen everything yet, so it's an atrocity, it's a crime. Of course, we also want to encourage that they are clearly examined and that those who do this should be brought to justice. Of course, I'm not optimistic enough to think that this is really going to happen, that everyone is going to stand trial, but we have to do everything we can to get this thing dealt with and to get those who did this to stand trial. The last videos, the last photos we've had in the last few days, I don't think they're gonna leave anybody at all. And I guess no one could imagine that in the 21st century we would be witnessing the conventional war that Russia unleashed on Ukraine. Personally, when I was talking a few months ago and we were talking about a security situation, I always said that we had to focus on hybrid threats, cybersecurity, and that conventional war is the last thing that would threaten us. Unfortunately, I, like all the others who have talked about it, have made a mistake, and Russia has shown us that its nature, let's say, is immutable and that it is capable of doing such crimes that are now committed in Ukraine and that reason remains standing. And I don't think we can imagine what it looks like on the spot if we don't just see the photos. Unfortunately, and as I have already mentioned, I am convinced that if Ukraine goes as it goes, and will continue to defend itself with our support, for which it, of course, thanks, and with the support of all the allies, so when we get to other places like Mariupol, I think that what we have seen now was unfortunately just a weak diversion of what Russia will still do to us with its approach. The murders of civilians on the streets, the murders of children, literally executions are, unfortunately, what is happening in Ukraine and what we cannot stand by. As the European Union, as a NATO member, I think we still have a lot of instruments in our hands that we can use and that we have not yet used. And if we have waited and discussed and tried to find diplomatic solutions like all of us, I think that the time is over and that the effort to negotiate with Putin in some way and try to get to the negotiating table, even though I think it is necessary, is also over, and that we must try to support Ukraine in order to be able to defend itself and do everything to protect Ukraine's people, protect their sovereignty and try to return Ukraine to its original borders, even though I am aware that it will be very difficult and very difficult. [[15.00 hours]] As I said at the beginning, we, as an YES movement, have always condemned this aggression, we have been on the side of the Government of the Czech Republic, which, in my opinion, is taking steps to support Ukraine, because it certainly deserves our support, and we will continue to do so. However, I would like to make one comment at this point, because I have noted from several media networks on social networks that we, as an YES movement, are putting the Czech Republic, people against each other and people against Ukraine. And this is where I want to turn against it. It's not true. And once again, as an YES movement, we have always been on the side of Ukraine, and we have always supported the government in its actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u16	Thank you, too. I am now no longer seeing any more entered into the general debate, which is why I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there is an interest in the final word or not? [[No one's checking in.]] We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. The petitioner, Vice-President Bartošek, filed for it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me begin by thanking my colleague Bžoch for his position on the YES movement and for our unity in this and that you are declaring it publicly. Thanks for that. By your means, Madam President, I address my colleague. Now, let me read the motion for a resolution which is deposited in the system as House document under number 680: "Stanovsko Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the situation in Ukraine and the massacre in Buč. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic states that: - The Russian Federation has committed a crime of aggression against Ukraine, unleashed an extensive and unprovoked war in Europe, seeks to destroy an international order based on rules, attacks against freedom, liberal democracy and Western civilization based on respect for the human and civil rights of each individual; - the Russian leadership has lost any credibility and must be responsible for its actions; - killing civilians in Buchi and other Ukrainian cities is a war crime under international law; - the kidnapping of residents from occupied Ukrainian territory to the Russian Federation, targeted attacks against civil infrastructure and the behaviour of the Russian army is unjustified; - inviting the goalkeepers into the Russian army in the occupied territories of Ukraine, including Crimea, is also in sharp violation of international law; - the crime is also the aggression against Ukraine committed by the Russian Federation in 2014 by occupying Crimea and part of the territory of eastern Ukraine; - all responsible for these crimes must be brought to justice and punished; - The Russian Federation must bear the consequences of starting a war, including the payment of reparations. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic supports the current procedure of the Government of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic and calls for: - intensive support for Ukraine and the international community in the documentation of crimes committed by the Russian Federation in the territory of Ukraine and the involvement of the Czech Republic in preparations for the provisions of the International Court of Justice for the trial of all of their perpetrators; - the promotion of further sanctions against the Russian Federation to be stepped up until Russia withdraws its troops from the entire territory of Ukraine, including Crimea; - enforcement of the requirement of departure of all Russian troops also from the territory of Moldova, Georgia and Belarus; - the enforcement of a permanent ban on the export of weapons, dual purpose items and any other technology usable for the Russian arms industry; - the adoption of measures leading to the raw material independence of the Czech Republic and the whole of the European Union in the Russian Federation so that revenues from the sale of Russian oil, natural gas and other raw materials cannot be used to finance further military aggression and divisive activities against the West; - other activities leading to the prevention of activities of Russian intelligence services in the Czech Republic and the European Union aimed at the destruction of values on which freedom and prosperity of our allies and our allies is based; - a thorough examination of the origin of the funds for which the citizens of the Russian Federation purchased real estate and other assets in the Czech Republic; - support for all Rus and Bělorus who opposed the Kremlin's criminal war against Ukraine, including support for those who fled from these countries; - further support for Moldova and Georgia, which are threatened by the presence of Russian troops on their territory; - further coordination within the European Union and allies in NATO, in particular the USA and Great Britain.' So much for a motion for a resolution. Finally, allow me to conclude with my personal statement that Russia's evil, which is committed in Ukraine, fulfils the conditions of the genocide of the second nation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u18	Thank you for presenting the motion for a resolution. In a detailed debate, I do not see any further registrations, which is why I am ending the detailed debate. Do you still have a final word, Mr. Speaker? Do you have any interest in getting off? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u19	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this resolution and believe that at this point we are part of the future of our country and of Europe. We must be united and send out a clear signal that violations of international law and human rights are totally unacceptable to us and anyone who behaves in this way will feel strongly that we will not tolerate this behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-001-120.u20	I also thank you for the final word. I do not see that there is a motion for a vote on a single basis, yet I am asking. [[No one's checking in.]] We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as it has been said, as a whole. That's why I'm calling in my colleagues and my coworkers from the lobby. I'm keeping an eye on everyone's logout, which is why I'm asking all of you to rejoin your I.D. cards. Once the number of people present in the Chamber is settled, the motion for a resolution tabled will begin the vote... The number of entries is stable. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled as a whole. I said, who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand? Who's against it? In vote number 97 registered 153 present, for 153, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] Thank you. I'm done discussing this point. And I'm gonna start questioning point number.
