ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 176/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura will also present the proposal, under the authority of the Government, in this case. And I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the implementation of a revised version of the directive laying down general arrangements for excise duties. The aim is to eliminate tax evasion, simplify administration and electronisation of the entire management. In addition to compulsory implementation, this bill contains one single thing, based on the comments or requirement of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, so that we can be able to return beer to the conditional exemption regime. We also come from the experience we used during the covid, and here came a good chance of putting it there permanently beyond mandatory implementation. Since this is relatively simple, the transposition period ended on 31 December last year, so on behalf of the government, I am asking you to approve this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u3	I thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jan Volný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, as always, I will be brief as rapporteur. I'm just going to underline and confirm that this is really an amendment to Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties. Indeed, it is largely the implementation of the European Council directive, and it is about improving and increasing the possibility of goods moving essentially across the European Union and simplifying the collection of taxes as such. So it's a very necessary thing, a useful thing. However, I think that - even in the short term - it would be a good idea to discuss this and get to know the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u5	I thank you and open a general debate where I register an application with priority rights. Madam President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me see, I see that the reason for the amendment proposal is the obligation of the Czech Republic to implement new EU legislation on taxes on alcohol, alcoholic beverages and at the same time exemption from tax. This results from Council Directive 2020/262. I understand all this, proper tax collection was one of the main objectives of our government. The proposed amendment will increase the harmonisation of customs legislation in the field of excise duties, allow the interconnection of electronic product systems under the conditional exemption regime with the customs electronic export system and replace the existing document regime for one which will be fully automated. And it will also allow monitoring of individual shifts in real time. I assume that fulfilling obligations will not entail any competitive disadvantage. I believe that this - I remember when we talked about it - went on for quite a lot of years, the negotiation on European Union soil, so it had quite a lot of support. However, we're in a different situation now, in crisis. It is not possible to figure out what the impact will be, the cost of companies, because they will have to be equipped, electronic equipment, availability of connection, other factors. Now there's high inflation, there's increased costs, there's going to be some impact on them. Therefore, in view of the current situation, although I understand all these reasons, I also understand what is beyond implementation, however, we would like to discuss this legislation in the committees and in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the two ANO and SPD Members' Clubs, I object to the discussion of the submitted press pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u7	This is the case - not the objection, but the veto on the hearing pursuant to § 90. Yes, I understand, I'm vetoing. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u8	Thank you for the floor. In order to maintain perhaps the same rhythm of both prints, I will repeat my two suggestions from the last press. The first proposal is to shorten the deadline between first and second reading by 48 days to 12. If it doesn't pass, then 30 days to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u9	Thank you. I have also noted your proposals and asked if anyone else is joining the general debate? Since - I apologize, first Madam Secretary. Please. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u10	I'd like to object to a 12-day shortening, to be exact, now I don't know whether an objection or a veto. [[The President: veto.]] On behalf of two ANO and SPD veto clubs against shortening the time limit for committee discussions, as proposed by the reduction to 12 days, or I will allow myself to veto this first proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u11	Okay. We're left with a proposal for a 30-day cut. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will briefly sum up this amendment. As has already been said here, we do not support the discussion in Section 90, nor the shortening of the deadline. The amendment to Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, i.e. the Act on excise duties. The main reason for its submission is the obligation of the Czech Republic to implement the Council Directive 262 of 2020 laying down general arrangements for excise duties, hereinafter referred to as the Directive on the general arrangements for excise duties, which lays down common rules for the application of excise duty within the European Union, including the principles for the movement of products subject to this tax between Member States. Following the implementation of the abovementioned directive on general arrangements for excise duties, additional wording and technical adjustments have also been made to maintain consistency of legislation in the framework of provisions covering this area at national level. Consumer taxes can be characterised as recurring indirect selective taxes, i.e. aimed at a certain range of entities engaged in specific products. An important function of excise duties is fiscal function, the importance of which is to ensure the flow of funds into public budgets at relatively low administrative costs. Another equally important function of these taxes is to influence the consumption of risk products with a negative impact on the health of the population or on the environment. The excise tax area has been regulated by the Law on excise duties since 1 January 2004 and is highly harmonised within the European Union. Harmonised excise duties include mineral oil tax, alcohol tax, beer tax, wine and intermediates tax and tobacco tax. European Union legislation lays down general conditions for the application of excise duty in the Member States within the framework of the Directive on the general arrangements for excise duties and lays down, within the framework of the separate Directives, rules on the method and level of taxation of individual groups of products subject to excise duty. The directive on general arrangements for excise duties is a basic directive harmonising the field of excise duties. It shall primarily focus on the proper functioning of the internal market. For this reason, it lays down rules in such a way that there are no unnecessary formalities for the crossing of borders in the course of the movement of selected products between Member States. The Directive therefore only provides for the necessary formalities and procedures for the bodies concerned, including tax authorities, in the transport of selected products between Member States, distinguishing between two basic types of transport between business entities, namely the transport of selected products under a suspension scheme and the transport of selected products already released for consumption. In addition to these two basic types of transport, the Directive on general arrangements for excise duties also regulates the conditions for so-called distance sales, the sending of selected products by the business entity to the natural person of the non-business and the transport of goods released for consumption for personal consumption. At the same time, it is necessary to avoid double taxation of selected products, and therefore the Directive on the general arrangements for excise duties lays down the conditions for the creation of a tax obligation and the obligation to grant and pay a tax in such a way that they are the same in all Member States. This Directive shall also identify persons liable for excise duty in individual situations. Other harmonised measures provided for in the Directive on general arrangements for excise duties are, for example, adjustments to formalities relating to the interconnection of customs and tax regimes, the territorial scope of the tax authorities, the basic exemptions, the basic conditions of authorisation for the operation of tax warehouses and authorised recipients or the conditions for the provision of tax. The main points of the assessment of the directive in question include the following areas: improving compliance with the excise and customs procedures procedure and partial or complete automation of the transport of selected products for free tax circulation in the EU. [[18.20 hours]] The impact assessment shall also focus on the following areas: the introduction of the possibility for the consignor to benefit from a tax representative in the context of remote sales and the abolition of the possibility for the competent authority of the Member State of destination to require a joint solution in terms of natural partial losses during transport, the automation of the certification of exemption and treatment in the case of the transport of selected products to recipients who are exempt from excise duty, the waiver of the obligation to provide collateral for energy products transported by pipeline. These main points are based on the Directive on the general arrangements for excise duties, which is the revised version of the 2008 Directive under number 118. Following the adoption of the directive on general arrangements for excise duties and obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, it is necessary to transpose this directive, i.e. by the end of 2021, but this will no longer be possible at the moment, as will the effectiveness of the transposition provisions established on 13 February 2023, when the electronic system for monitoring selected products in free tax circulation between Member States will be launched in a pan-European manner. In the meantime, the European Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, shall develop technical and functional specifications for the extension of the existing EMCS electronic system for monitoring the movement of selected products under a suspension exemption scheme for free circulation. It will then adopt new implementing provisions for the Directive on general arrangements for excise duties. The various headings of the amendments to the Directive on general arrangements for excise duties and a more detailed description of their impact are further explained in the explanatory memorandum in Chapter 2. So much on my part to sum up this press. As I said, we will not support the shortening, we will support the proper negotiation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-002-003.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate? I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if the Minister wants to take the final floor? The rapporteur? Not either. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Today, from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Roman Bělor apologizes for family reasons. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I'm not filing a motion, I'll put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal tabled be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21, registered 160 Members and Members, for 160, against no one. The proposal has been approved and this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees and I ask whether there are other proposals for discussion in other committees or committees? I do not see any proposal, in which case we will proceed to the vote on the shortening of the time limit for discussion. In the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 22, 162 Members and Members signed up for proposal 160. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
