ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-003-029.u1	29. Government Bill on explosives precursors and on the amendment of related laws (the Act on explosives precursors) /House print 197/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We have interrupted this item in the general debate on 15 June 2022 at the 25th meeting. Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table under the authority of the Government, Madam Secretary of the Environment, who is to represent the Minister of Industry and Trade of Jozef Síkela today. At the same time, I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Libor Turek. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. On 15 June 2022, when we interrupted the general debate, Mr Marek Novák was interrupted in his speech. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-003-029.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Vice-President has already said, I was ruthlessly interrupted yesterday, but, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is necessary to put it into context, so unfortunately I have to go back to the beginning, but I really want you to hear the connection and to take a closer look at the position of our club, because he and the rapporteur did not actually share all the details here, and I would like you to be really familiar with the details, because it is really both at European and Czech level when enforcing the existing import rules, making available, holding and using selected explosives precursors, which are chemicals and mixtures from which explosives can be prepared by individuals as well. The effective fight against the unauthorised production of improvised explosives is prevented, in particular, by the high limit mass of the concentration of controlled chemicals relevant for the access of natural persons under the current registration regime, by the fact that certain controlled chemicals are being replaced by other unregulated substances in the illicit manufacture of explosives, as well as by the non-single use of the existence of three regimes for access by natural persons to explosives precursors by all Member States, and finally by circumvention of regulations by pretending commercial activities through the formal status of an entrepreneur. [[10.50 hours]] In order to improve the regulation, disclosure and possession of explosives precursors, the European Commission has also motivated numerous attacks in European cities using improvised explosives and recommendations from the Council of the European Union has prepared a new regulation that regulates the conditions for making these very exploitable substances and mixtures available. The proposed legislation actually adapts the legal order of the Czech Republic to the new and directly applicable regulation 2019/1148, which means to lay down appropriate rules for the newly set regulatory approach to explosives precursors and to establish the related sanctions in relation to the regulations cited. Regulation 2019/1148 is to apply in our legal order from 1 February 2021. Without the adoption of a new law, the smooth application of the existing Act on explosives precursors is highly problematic, as the existing law is based on the previous regulation of the European Union. The proposed legislation also aims to introduce optimal regulation of the making available, import, possession and use of explosives precursors and thus to achieve the compatibility of the Czech rule of law with the directly applicable Regulation 2019/1148. Since most of the obligations relating to explosives precursors are explicitly and directly laid down in the Regulation, the proposed legislation aims to provide for an appropriate regime for access by general public to explosives precursors subject to restrictions, i.e. explicitly referred to in Annex 1 to the directly applicable regulation above the so-called established concentration, to further establish the competence of state authorities in the field of regulated explosives precursors, namely explicitly listed in Annexes 1 and 2 to this Regulation, and to introduce instruments for enforcement of obligations. This is also very important. Access by the general public to explosives precursors subject to restrictions proposed by the legislation proposes to prohibit and is precisely because of terrorist attacks, whether fatal or other serious injuries in the course of unauthorised or unprofessional handling of explosives, and many others. Therefore, persons above certain concentrations will not be able to obtain or import, hold or use selected exploitable substances and mixtures in the Czech Republic. The vendors will not be able to access them reciprocally. In particular, it is actually chemicals or mixtures which contain nitric acid above 3% by weight, hydrogen peroxide above 12 % by weight, sulphuric acid above 15 %, nitromethane above 16 %, ammonium nitrate containing more than 16 per cent by weight of nitrogen, potassium chlorate or sodium above 40 per cent by weight and potassium chlorites or sodium over 40 per cent by weight. This shall be without prejudice to the possibility of obtaining substances at lower, significantly less exploitable concentrations and contained areas or of obtaining alternative products. However, restrictions do not apply to entities not covered by the definition of general public persons. They shall not affect natural persons undertaking or legal persons acting in their business or business activities related to those explosives precursors subject to restrictions. And here, of course, it must be said that it is also subject to the so-called concession. For example, a legal person whose business involves trade in chemicals and mixtures or cultivation of agricultural crops shall not be restricted by this prohibition in access to certain but not to any explosives precursors subject to the restrictions they need for such activities. On the contrary, there will be a legal person among the general public within the meaning of that Regulation, for example, whose need to obtain explosives precursors subject to restrictions will not be related to its subject-matter. This means, for example, obtaining more concentrated hydrogen peroxide solutions for water treatment in the pool provided to employees as an employee benefit. Due to the urgency of the incorporation of European Union regulations into the Czech legal system, the effectiveness of the law is exceptionally proposed on the 15th day following its publication and proposed to discuss the law so that the House can agree with it in the first reading according to § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The ANO movement welcomes this standard and supports its adoption mainly because of the prevention of terrorist and other attacks using explosives, but also by the injury of handling amateur-made explosives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-003-029.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking, who's next in line for the general debate? There's no such person. I am therefore ending the general debate. I am asking for an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur - it is not. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 197 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Just a little while ago, I'm gonna go on, wait for some of my colleagues to arrive at the ballroom. Yes, there's an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your ID cards again. Before the numbers are settled, I will once again make a motion for a resolution so that colleagues who arrived later will also hear it. We will vote that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 197 so that it can be agreed with at first reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 105 Members voted in favour of 105, and no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. So I am opening up a detailed debate on this point and I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate? No one is reporting to the debate in detail, so I am ending the debate in detail. I will ask again about the final words - there is no interest in the final words. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will now present to you the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on explosives precursors and on the amendment of related laws, the Act on explosives precursors, according to the House's press 197. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 107 Members voted in favour of 105. [[Against 0.]] The motion for a resolution has been adopted, and I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and I am ending the discussion of this point. Before we proceed to the next point, I'll load two apologies. Mr Zuna apologizes 16. 6., i.e. today, between 18 and 21 o'clock for work reasons and Mr. Havránek apologizes 17. 6. all day for work reasons. We'll continue with the next item on our approved program, which is point number
