ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u1	Mr President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyj, Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable senators and senators, honourable Members, honourable Ambassador of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, dear listeners and spectators, it is an honor that I, as President of the Czech Senate, can begin to monitor the joint appearance of the President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenský in front of both chambers of the Czech Parliament. At the same time, I dare say that they are residents of the Czech Republic and also the Czech Parliament, who understand very well what you are experiencing in Ukraine, how you suffer. We have a period in Czech history, whether it is the Munich Agreement in 1938, or the occupation of the Warsaw Treaty troops led by the Soviet Army in 1968, which allows us to have the strength and motivation to support you strongly, to feel with you and to be solidarity with you. It's been almost four months since the Russian aggressor entered Ukraine without an invitation. The Czech Senate responded immediately, on 25 February we adopted our first resolution and by our resolutions we support you Ukrainians, your heroic resistance, continuously. We also visited you in Ukraine. I visited not only Kiev but also Buča, we saw a mass grave there, and we saw the destroyed infrastructure in Irpini or Borodjance together with the first Vice-President of the Senate, Jiří Růžička, and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security, Pavel Fischer. We know what you're doing, and we have eyewitness information. Therefore, I would like to greatly appreciate your courage and courage and the heroism of your people. But when you appreciate someone, it needs to be appreciated not only by words, but also by actions, and I am proud of the Czech people, and I want to thank them for their support, the humanitarian support they provide, the people who come from Ukraine to us, and the financial support that then allows you to supply weapons. I am proud of the Czech Parliament and I am proud of the Czech Government, which supports Ukraine in its heroic struggle. We realize that you are fighting not only for your territorial integrity, for your freedom and for your independence, but for the whole civilized and free world. We appreciate this very much, and that is why we will support you and your actions, and I am glad that one of these acts is your speech today in front of both chambers of the Czech Parliament. I am very pleased to be able to give the floor now to my colleague, President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u2	Mr President, thank you for your introductory words. Dear Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mr Ambassador, whom I particularly like to welcome here after a while, honourable Members, Members, Senators, Senators, fellow citizens. It is, as has already been said, much more than a hundred days since we met here in the Czech Parliament on the first day of brutal aggression against Ukraine, which the Russian Federation is leading, so that we unanimously adopt a resolution that has clearly condemned this barbaric act. At the time, we all understood that there was a fight that had long swelled, between freedom and will, between civilization and barbarism, between truth and lies. What is happening now in Ukraine is indeed not a common war. Every day we hear what the aggressors are doing there, from killing civilians and killing children, destroying hospitals, schools and other infrastructure, deliberately destroying grain reserves that threaten to cause hunger in a number of countries, eviction and violent movements of the population. This is nothing more than acts of terrorism. In my opinion, I would like to call these acts real names. I consider what Russia is doing in Ukraine to be state terrorism. Each time has its war criminals, but also its heroes, who lead the nations, by their example, to victory despite doubters. And I think you, Mr. President Zelenskyj, have become such a leader. For that I sincerely thank you and I am pleased to welcome you today, on behalf of myself and on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies, at least this far away. However, before we hear your message, I would also like to give the floor to Prime Minister Petr Fial, who will briefly sum up the position of the Czech Government on Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Prime Minister, I'd like to see you perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u3	Mr President Zelenský, Mr President, Madam President, Senators, Senators, Members, Members, excelence, ladies and gentlemen. It is not very usual for them to perform on the ground of our Parliament with the expression of the head of foreign states, and it is quite exceptional for this to be done through online transmission. But this time is unusual and in a way exceptional. Europe has been facing war again for decades. Our country is also affected by this Russian aggression, particularly indirectly, but it has also claimed two victims among our fellow citizens who have decided to help Ukraine personally. The consequences of war are also now felt by all citizens of our Republic, and it is clear that if the aggressor fails to stop in Ukraine, other countries - Baltics, Central Europe - will be next, and the consequences of war would be even worse for our country. In a few minutes, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyj, a man who was democratically elected by his fellow citizens, will speak to us here to help the further bloom of his country, a man who was forced by cruel circumstances to put on a uniform and take the lead in the fight to protect Ukraine from physical and moral destruction. It's hard for any of us to imagine what situations he's forced to deal with these days. Even his appearance here at the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be the performance of a man who fights and needs help because he fights not only for himself but also for us. Let's keep that in mind, please. We are in regular contact with President Zelenský and his associates. We are working together not only to supply weapons and support Ukraine in international forums, but also to help Ukrainian war refugees who have found a temporary home in the Czech Republic. It is therefore appropriate to briefly recapitulate the topics relating to relations between the Czech Republic and Ukraine over the last three months. You know that in the first hundred days of this terrible war, our Republic has granted temporary protection to over 360 thousand Ukrajinec, with nearly three quarters of the adult refugees being women who have mostly come to us with their young children. These children then account for 40 percent of all of our registered refugees. It's hard to find another symbol of it being refugees before the war. Their fathers and husbands stayed in Ukraine to defend their country against Russian invaders. Our statistics also show that at the beginning of June, over 64,000 Ukrainian refugees have found work, and thus on taxes and levies they are already helping to contribute to the help and care they receive from us, with this figure growing every day. These people really do not want to depend on our social system, but, on the contrary, they want to give our country and its citizens back their acceptance and security. It is important to remember this and to face together attacks against this human solidarity, which unfortunately are also being committed by some major politicians. And we must thank all our citizens, who have done so, who have helped not only with money but also with personal commitment. In an unprecedented migration wave, up to 17,000 refugees came to us daily. Everything was not going well, but we did it best in Europe, and I would like to thank our fellow citizens once again from this place. A separate chapter of our relations consists of direct assistance provided by the Czech Republic. What Ukraine needed and needed to continue is weapons. Without them, she wouldn't have been able to defend herself from the great Russian supremacy. I would like to remind you that our first deliveries were agreed just before the war began. Since then it is a wide range of weapons and materials, from handguns to artillery grenades, portable rockets, heavy equipment, equipment, ballistic protection or optical material. Our cooperation in this area is very complex, but given the circumstances, of course, it is in a confidential regime, and therefore I cannot discuss the details here. But what I would like to point out is what I would like to point out is the unique initiative of Czech citizens who themselves collect funds for the purchase of weapons and military equipment and send them directly to the Russian embassy... Excuse me, the Ukrainian embassy in Prague. Other billions of crowns are flowing to support Ukraine through a number of humanitarian and charitable organizations - for all I would like to mention člověk in distress - and to all those who organise and help in this way, our deep gratitude and recognition. Another chapter that the Czech Republic is trying to develop in favour of Ukraine and its defence is the area of international policy, even with regard to the Czech Presidency in the European Union, which starts in two weeks. We have two specific targets here. One is the fastest possible granting of candidate country status for Ukraine and the associated promotion of the association agreement and greater integration of the country into European Union policies, and the other is the promotion of the strongest possible sanctions against Russia. The recently adopted sixth penalty package is also the result of the Czech diplomatic offensive. We citizens of Central and Eastern Europe have enough historical experience with the expansion of the Eastern Empire. We know very well that Russia has waged its hidden war against us for years. It includes a disinformation war that has long sought to undermine trust in a democratic state. This also includes the terrorist attack and the murder of two Czech citizens in Vrbetice. This includes trying to make us more comfortable thanks to dependence on their gas and oil. This includes partly current inflation, which is a direct result of Putinův war against the Western world, as well as Russia's current efforts to destabilize the world's basic food supply system and thereby cause another migration wave. That is why it is necessary for the whole of Europe to be fully aware that Ukraine is fighting not only for itself, but that its defence struggle at the moment also represents the defence of the fundamental values that are owned by the European Union and the entire Western world. It is about democracy, rule of law, freedom and independence. These are values that are completely foreign to the current Russian regime, even so foreign that it mocks them publicly and that it also wants to violently destroy them. Yes, it must be recalled once again that if Ukraine falls, Putin Russia will want to move on. His smallest ambition, the ambition he is publicly talking about, is the actual renewal of the Soviet Union and its European satellites. And that is a direct danger to our republic, to our future together, to our lives, but also to our children and grandchildren's lives, and we cannot allow that. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore listen to the words of Volodymyr Zelenský with understanding, with an open heart and an open mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u4	I thank the Prime Minister and allow me now to give the floor to the President of Ukraine, who should be in touch with us. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u5	[[He speaks Ukrainian, simultaneous translation.]] Thank you. Mr President of the Senate, Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable journalists present, dear Czech people. I am very grateful for the possibility that in this format I can turn to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and also to all Čech. I would like to thank you for the very pleasant words by which you have expressed your support for our people and our state, which has been spoken here today, and for how warmly you have accepted all our refugees. We appreciate it and it is a great event in our history. I personally appreciate this initiative. But I will begin with words which I'm sure all of you who know all Evropan well, who value history and freedom on our continent: We are with you and be with us! These words are very important. It was of great importance even when it sounded on the waves of Czech radio in 1968, when it supported the resistance. They are also of great importance at the moment when - when we remember them - we are talking about those who fought for freedom for your people. But these words actually have other meanings. Now that the Ukrainian people are fighting for their freedom against Russia's cruel invasion, we can say that it is with these words that we Ukrajinec turn to all the peoples of Europe, to all the nations of the democratic world: We are with you, be with us! We are now facing a tyranny which, as in the past, does not intend to stop only in the territory of Ukraine. Its goal is to conquer everyone in Europe, that is to say, all who live their own lives and, above all, their own lives. Russia is not only interested in Mariupol, Severodoněck, Kharkov, Odessa or Kiev, not at all. His ambitions are focused on the huge space that stretches from Warsaw to Sofia, from Prague to Tallinn. As in the past, Russia's invasion of Ukraine is only the first step that needs Russia's leadership to open its way to other states and to subjugate other nations. This is openly spoken not only by Russian state propaganda but also by Russian high-ranking officials. It has come so far, for example, that they are officially threatening to abolish the recognition of the state independence of the Baltic States. But what's next? Who's next in line? Ladies and gentlemen, when Ukraine turns to European states and asks for support, we are based on this very principle, precisely from these words, which have become one of the fundamentals of your history: We are with you, be with us! Russian tanks that invade the cities of Ukrainian Donbas, which are trying to attack Ukrainian Kharkov, Mikolaiev and Záporozji, must be stopped and burned or expelled from the territory of independent Ukraine so that they can never again reach Prague, Ostrava, Brno, Pilsen, Karlovy Vary, or any other city of our continent. It is in Ukraine and right now that the battle for the future of Europe is taking place and I am very grateful to your state and your people for how generously you have helped us and helped us in this war. The Czech Republic has helped us with weapons, very important, and I would like to thank the leadership of this state. The help arrived just when it was most needed, but you can be sure that you supported yourself and your own freedom and your own life, and this support should last as long as it is necessary to achieve victory, because that is precisely what this war should end: victory. And while there are politicians in some states who are afraid of the possibility that freedom will win and tyranny will lose, there are no such politicians among your leaders, because Czech people know very well the different examples of what ends the compromises we make against bullies. Because what does that lead to? While the tyrant suggests that he will only take a piece of territory he craves, but that will not end aggression, because whoever wants to seize everything will never stop. And I ask you, together with us, to constantly convince all those who have not yet decided to choose their side in this war, which has lasted for 112 days. Ukraine should receive everything to achieve victory: modern weapons, strong enough to overcome the armaments of the Russian army, as well as financial assistance to have the necessary resources against Russia, whose savings and incomes are still quite large. In a hundred days of this war, which began on 24 February, Russia has already made EUR 93 billion through the sale of energy resources. Ukraine should also receive basic ideal aid, which will finally drive Russia out of the hands of its main ideological weapon, as if Europe were unable to unite and that Ukraine is supposedly not needed for Europe. In the near future, we should be given an answer from the European Union, from all Member States, to a question concerning Ukraine's status as candidate, because it is to prove to Ukraine that the European Community is real, that European values actually work and are not merely empty words in several documents. Russian soldiers are well aware that they are fighting European values, against any free nation in a Europe that shares common values becoming part of the European community. That is exactly what the ideological setting of Russian occupations is. So it is important to strengthen the European community and say yes to Ukraine - that is also a defense in this war. It will also be a historical expression of the meaning of the words that will be expressed as follows: We are with you, be with us! That is why I ask you to be extremely active these days, precisely in these weeks, so that all European leaders agree that defending and encouraging Europe is our common cause so that no one can make an exception to this principle. The Czech fateful eights, the years 1938, 1948 and 1968, are an exhaustive response to all who would still want to make peace with this aggressor at the expense of betraying European values and at the expense of weakening Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Czech nation, in a few weeks' time, the Czech Republic will become the Presidency of the European Union, and this will be the time when many challenges will be faced. The whole of Europe will have many challenges ahead of it, but they will be different. We should agree on the seventh penalty package against Russia because of this aggression, and we should also start to re-establish Ukraine in a targeted way - to rebuild everything on a newly liberated territory. [[12.00 hours]] When you visited our capital in March, Prime Minister Petr, you were one of the first European leaders to boldly show that Europe would stand together with Ukraine. And I believe that the Czech Republic will be among those leaders who will contribute as much as possible to economic and infrastructure reconstruction in Ukraine. It is also a good opportunity to show the whole power of Europe, both technological and institutional, but also creative. We also need to ensure full synchronisation of the Ukrainian National Recovery Plan and the European Recovery Platform in order to implement all this very quickly and efficiently. I also ask you to engage directly in the reconstruction of Ukraine and at national level, for example, to take over one of the Ukrainian regions or cities that have suffered Russian aggression. This will be the best proof that no aggression, no attack, no matter how cruel, will ever achieve its goal and that none of Europe's nations and Europe as a whole can be broken. I am very grateful for your sincere and full support for Ukrainian refugees, because you have welcomed and sheltered thousands of our people in your country, which you have protected from the war, and we will do everything we can to ensure that all of them can return home to Ukraine. We can also follow the principle, and we will certainly follow the principle that can once again be expressed by the words "we are with you, be with us. " This will bring results that can be described in other important words of Václav Havel: "True and love must prevail over lies and hatred. " Unfortunately, these words have often not been fulfilled in Europe's history, but now, just in 2022, it is in Ukraine and it is together that we can ensure that these words are fulfilled very strongly so that many other generations of our nations can draw on the fruits of our victory. Thank you. Long live the Czech Republic - and the glory of Ukraine. [[Long-standing applause in the hall, those present stood up except for the members of the SPD.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-000-01-000-999.u6	Mr. President, thank you for your words. I also thank our fellow Members from the Senate for the opportunity to hold a joint hearing of your message. Glory to Ukraine. So now our connection will be terminated, we will say goodbye to you. We wish a lot of strength! At the same time, this part of our meeting today, colleagues and colleagues, is closed. It will take five minutes to reformulate, technical matters, and we return to the agenda as approved. Thank you.
