ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-008-070.u1	70. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, signed in Brasília on 9 December 2020 /German press 157/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, who is already taking the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-008-070.u2	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, allow me to mention another press, which is also a treaty that we would deal with relations between the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Brazil, and this is a social security treaty. The principle of the treaty is indeed to lay down transparent rules so that citizens of both countries, in the case of residence in the second country where they will carry out some part of their work, have clear, predictable rules so that they, as the contract provides, can also count on the time that is important for them to be entitled to a pension at all, while laying down clear, transparent rules for companies, for employers, so there is really reason for us to ratify the contract as well. By the way, negotiations on this contract were initiated on the initiative of the Czech Republic, the Czech Party. There are a number of reasons. For one thing, Brazil belongs to one of the world's largest economies, with more than 200 million inhabitants. At the same time, we are also connected by traditional historical good relationships, such as the trail of Jan Antonín Baťa. There is also a trace of one of Brazil's major presidents, who also had their roots in the Czech Republic as South Bohemia - President Kubitschek - so there are clear historical ropes, where it was shown that our economic relations, trade, had potential and potential for the future. The Treaty does not impose any significant demands and burdens on the Czech state budget today or in the future, so I would like to ask that we here support the ratification of this Treaty on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-008-070.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's table, and I ask you now to take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Barbora Urbanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-008-070.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Let me just sum it up because we're at first reading. The Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and Brazil was signed on 9 December 2020. It is a presidential contract which is submitted before ratification to express its consent to both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. As you all know, coordination of national social security systems through international agreements is one important way to facilitate economic cooperation. Social security contracts respect existing national social systems, do not interfere with their very nature, but lay down precise rules for coordination. Their aim is to eliminate collisions arising from the application of national laws and create room for easier movement of workers, business and provision of services. Of course, there are already several international agreements promoting economic cooperation between the Czech Republic and Brazil, but none yet regulates the issue of social security. Therefore, this Treaty is appropriate to complement the common legal framework. In relation to the substance of the contract, in addition to the jurisdiction of the migrant worker to participate in social insurance in which the State applies only to the area of pension insurance. This is the case in virtually all cases of contracts negotiated with more distant states and with countries with less mutual migration of workers. The Treaty will have a negligible effect on the state budget. It meets both Czech and European standards in both formal and content terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-008-070.u5	I, too, thank you for presenting the news report. I am opening a general debate on this point. I don't have one yet. Since no one is interested in speaking in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I want to ask if the petitioner or rapporteur is interested in final words? This is not the case, which is why we will be dealing with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone like that. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the motion being ordered to discuss the foreign committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 98, 153 in attendance, for 132, against none. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. No further motion on the commandment of the committee or anything else has been made, so I am ending the discussion of this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We have thus exhausted the fixed points in the block of contracts and we are getting to the point number
