ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 69/2006 Sb., on the implementation of international sanctions, as amended, and other related laws /house print 253/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, whom I ask to take the floor as a petitioner. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to justify what the President has ended, that is, we ask you to adopt this bill at first reading. I think the reason is simple. The European Union has gradually adopted six penalty packages, and this bill serves to better enforce it, so that we can better implement it, enforce sanctions and, where appropriate, to give the State a fee for the management of frozen property. The bill changes a total of eight laws, in fact the regime of a person who is on the international penalty list, whether physical or legal, can apply in other laws. I'm not going to name the eight here, but if I have to, I'm sure I'll be happy to mention them in a detailed debate. I mean, we've been working with a lot of colleagues on this. It's a bill that goes across the resorts, it's not just a matter of the Treasury. We are presenting this because, logically, the Financial Analysis Office is responsible for implementing international sanctions. The aim of the law is to make the work more effective, to make the FAO itself more effective, that is, to reduce administrative complexity. We want to use the capacity of the Customs Administration to participate, where appropriate, in the implementation of international sanctions, to introduce a property management fee of 3% of the value of the managed company, and to make the information flow more effective, that is to say, the transfer of information within the state and public administration. We have also inspired ourselves by what has been adopted at European level, that is, we are introducing sanctions such as a ban on the residence of persons in the Czech Republic, a ban on public procurement to persons on the penalty list, and a ban on the provision of public funds. We propose the effectiveness of this bill on the day following its publication in the Collection of Laws. I think we can make some more general remarks about the sanctions. I think that the united action of European countries is one of the things that unkindly surprised Vladimír Putin, the aggressor who attacked Ukraine, because only then can the response of Western democratic countries be effective. [[17.10 hours]] At the same time, we must say - and say this quite openly - that if sanctions are to be effective, they are to hit Russia's economy strongly, without a doubt they also fall on the countries that impose sanctions. This means that all Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, are affected. We just see some of the effects today and every day. However, we believe as a government that the package of sanctions helps Ukraine to defend itself so successfully so far and that it can help Ukraine to win the war eventually. These impacts, especially with regard to energy prices, are evident. We are facing a very difficult time because the Nord Stream 1 technical shutdown will start next week, and many in Western Europe and Central Europe are worried that gas supplies will not be restored. We'll see about ten to fourteen days after that technical break supposedly intended to carry out some technological maintenance, whether the gas will flow or not. I'm gonna take this chance to announce that for this morning, we've had more than 70 percent of our stacks filled. So far, it's under way. Even the filling started in the last magazine, where it hasn't been filled yet. Here, the Russian company Gazprom has played the same unfortunate role as in other Western European countries. First of all, the magazine owns 50 percent, which is not the most important, but it competed with capacity, which means that it has the right to fill this magazine, and it absolutely does not respect, for example, the extraordinary measures of the Minister of Industry and Trade, and even about ten days ago there was only 4 percent. We managed to start filling this magazine in cooperation with the other owner, filling it with CEZ, so we also contribute to increasing stocks to 70 percent. Yesterday we heard in the speech by the President of the European Commission that within the European Union it is filled with gas reservoirs at a level of 55 per cent. That means we, with the 70 percent, are at the top of the country that fills the fastest. It is true that since April 1st, when we met with all of the gas industry at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the process of implementation has been going well, including some commercial incentives for the process to take place, as we discussed at the last meeting. So I believe that we need this law, that it is designed correctly, and that it will help better enforce sanctions in our territory, including by circumventing sanctions as a criminal offence. I think it is right that we must enforce this very seriously, because only then will the sanctions be effective and can they contribute to the end of the war in Ukraine sooner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which was originally Mr Miroslav Zborovský, who is excused. We should therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. Mr Kohajda, who is present, is proposed. I therefore ask that we vote on this amendment to the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of changing the rapporteur for this press to become Mr Kohajda? Who's against it? In the vote number 18, 134 are registered, for 97, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask Mr Kohajda, who has now become rapporteur, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to present to you as rapporteur the Government Bill amending Act No. 69/2006 Coll., on the implementation of international sanctions, as amended, and other related laws, which are referred to as House Press 253, which has been sent to us 22. 6. 2022. The Government's proposal for a law aims to implement the Government's intention to respond to the invasion of the armed forces of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and the resulting increased intensity of the implementation of international sanctions, at the same time to introduce a national penalty list beyond the penalty lists of the United Nations Security Council and the European Union. The draft law responds to current experience in implementing international sanctions and addresses the most pressing problems that arise in doing so. Furthermore, the draft law will allow the implementation of sanctions introduced under the draft law on the limitation of measures against certain serious infringements, which is a sanction law whose gesturer is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The proposed bill brings changes, in particular, to the decision-making activities of the Financial Analytical Office, which should be made more effective, in particular by improving the acquisition of information and other supporting documents for the decision-making process and the specific arrangements for delivery abroad; in addition, the management of assets subject to international sanctions by specifying the procedural procedures for the sale of such assets and the charging of the management of such assets; supervision of the implementation of international sanctions by allowing the detention of property subject to international sanctions by the customs authorities of the Czech Republic; freezing of property subject to international sanctions by allowing the seal to be inserted into public records; Last but not least, the protection of information by specifying the confidentiality arrangements for offences, where the criminality of the attempted offence and the publication of the operative part of the decision on selected offences is determined. In view of the fact that the proposal responds to the current situation in the implementation of international sanctions, it is not possible, because of the need for rapid adjustment, to cover further necessary amendments to the Act on the implementation of international sanctions, which would be appropriate to introduce. It is therefore envisaged that the solution to these other issues of conceptual nature will be included in the follow-up amendment to the International Sanctions Act, which is included in the Government's legislative work plan for 2022 with a deadline for submission to the Government in October 2022. Part of the proposal for a Government resolution is a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's bill at first reading. In summary the material does not have the ambition to cover the complexity of the amendment of legislation for international sanctions. Conceptual questions or suggestions from inter-ministerial commentary proceedings should be covered by the amendment in autumn. However, this partial amendment addresses at least the most up-to-date areas based on experience from practice, which are not yet sufficiently legislative. Given the current international policy situation, it is necessary to approve the proposed change as soon as possible. For these reasons, I recommend that the House release the proposal for second reading and order it to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. At the same time, I draw attention to the fact that there is a petitioner's proposal for a procedure of § 90, which can be considered appropriate in the light of time circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. I will read one of the apologies before the debate is opened. It is an apology to Mr Tomio Okamura, from 18.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. I am now opening up a general debate, which only Mr David Štolpa has joined so far. I therefore ask the Member to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an amendment to the International Sanctions Act today, which is something that is more than current in today's international situation. This amendment creates the conditions for the introduction of sanctions against entities in our territory which have committed a serious infringement and have not yet been included in the European Union's penalty list. At the same time, this amendment will allow the Czech Republic to place entities on the penalty list of the European Union. At present, the Customs Administration, under the current law, does not have the power to detain the sanctioned property. With the amendment under discussion, the Czech Customs Administration will be able to retain the sanctioned assets, for example, to Russian entities in connection with the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. [[17.20 hours]] The amendment also brings changes in the case of the Financial Analytical Office, respectively in its decision-making activities. The amendment to the central authorities of the state administration, such as the Czech National Bank, the police or the intelligence services, will require the financial analytical authority to provide any information and opinions. Failure to comply with this request will be sanctioned by a fine of up to CZK 500 000, and what is more, the law also allows faster insertion of the seal when freezing property into public registers. It will also be easier for the Financial Analysis Office to deliver its written decisions abroad. In the case of the management of frozen assets subject to international sanctions, the standard also specifies the procedural procedures and also introduces a new fee for its management. It will amount to 3 % of the value of the assets and its resulting amount for the calendar year will be the product of the fee rate and value of the managed property. The managed sanctioned property will be able to be sold in a public auction under certain circumstances, with the fact that the auctioneer will normally be the Financial Analytical Office or the Office of State representation in property matters. The State may also sell frozen property subject to international sanctions in the public interest. It is clear that this proposed extension of the sanctioning measures will constitute an increase in the agendas and administrative actions of the State authorities concerned. Quantification of this increase will, of course, depend on the extent of the use of sanctions. However, it should not require an increase in the staffing capacity of the State authorities concerned. At the same time, it is not expected that this bill should immediately lead to an increase in funds allocated to the activities of the Financial Analytical Office in the relevant chapter of the State Budget. Any higher costs incurred for the proposed measures will be compensated to some extent by the said revenue from the management fees subject to the penalty scheme. However, the revenue of the State budget from this charge is currently difficult to quantify, in particular given the dynamic development of the scope of the penalty measures. Finally, given the urgency of the legislation on this issue, especially in view of the known armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian troops and the sanctions adopted by the European Union, it is required to discuss the draft law as soon as possible. In particular, the reasons for extending the powers of the authorities which should check international sanctions as soon as possible in order to enable the sanctioned property to be affected to the widest possible extent and as soon as possible. We therefore support the proposal as an YES movement and agree to its adoption at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. It is really the only one registered in the general debate so far. No one else logged in... and I see, Madame Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly on behalf of the club of the ANO movement. It is an amendment to the law, as has been said by both the Minister and the rapporteur, an amendment to the law on the implementation of international sanctions. It is submitted together with accompanying amendments, amendment to the Civil Aviation Act, amendment to the Asylum Act, amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners, criminal law, Act on public passenger transport services, amendment to the Cadastral Act and amendment to the Public Procurement Act. These amendments respond to the current situation in the implementation of international sanctions resulting, in particular, from the directly applicable regulations of the European Union and, at the same time, with the related draft law concerning restrictive measures against certain serious infringements, the Gestor of which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that the proposal responds to the current situation in the implementation of international sanctions, it does not therefore have an ambition in view of the need to adapt rapidly to the existing practice to cover further amendments to the Act on the implementation of international sanctions, which would be appropriate to introduce. However, we expect a conceptual amendment related to the solution of conceptual issues in the implementation of international sanctions from the government according to the legislative work plan for 2022 at some time in October 2022. I suppose there will be more extensive discussions. However, the current amendment contains partial changes based on the current situation. We understand that, and on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, I say that we will not veto the acceptance under Section 90 and we will support this amendment as it has been submitted, even in accordance with Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-007-007.u9	Thank you, too. There is still a general debate. I don't really see anyone else logged in, which is why I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words of the translator? It's not. And the rapporteur? It's not. In the absence of an objection, we must now decide pursuant to Article 90 (2) of the basic Regulation. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 253 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I shall begin the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 19 registered 138 present, for 111, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have decided that we will continue to discuss this press in accordance with Section 90. That is why I am now initiating a detailed debate. I don't have anyone registered to her, I'm not registering anyone, so I'm ending a detailed debate. Now I do not see interest in the final words of either, whether the petitioner or the rapporteur, so no proposal has been tabled and we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will once again make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 69/2006 Coll., on the implementation of international sanctions, as amended, and other related laws under the House Press 253.' I'm registering an interest in check-out, which is why I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. I will no longer read the motion for a resolution, and as soon as the number of Members is settled, which is now, I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution. I said, who's in? Or who's against it? In the vote number 20, 121 are present, for 118, against 0. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of this law. I thank both the promoter and the rapporteur. I'm gonna do another apology. Between 17 and 18 o'clock, Mr Martin Kukla apologizes for reasons of work. Opening item discussion number
