ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. I'll ask him to take the floor. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Before I begin, just an announcement to Minister Válek that he has a card here, so that I am not accused of tampering with a foreign voting card. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, to present to you the draft state budget for 2023. I might have a very detailed introductory word, but I assume that other members of the government, colleagues and colleagues will speak with detailed justification in particular for spending in the relevant chapter. As you all know, and I will remind you, at first reading, we approve the basic parameters of the budget, that is, total revenue, total expenditure and proposed state budget deficit. [[10.00 hours]] Before I go to individual numbers, facts, arguments, let me make a more general comment on the economic situation in which the Czech Republic is located, in fact all European countries. On 24 February this year, the situation in Europe has changed substantially. After many decades, we see a war conflict directly affecting us. Since then, the Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian people led by their president and government, have bravely defended Russia's unprovoked and unjust unwarranted aggression. The logical answer, one of the logical responses of the democratic part of the world, not only European democracies, was the gradual imposition of up to eight penalty packages against Russia and Belarus. And if such sanctions are to make sense and have a significant impact on the Russian economy, it is logical that they adversely affect the citizens of the countries that imposed those sanctions. I think it is very clear that the more effective sanctions will be, the less Russia's ability to continue this unfair war. At European level, at every meeting of all ministers of all departments, we are debating the effects of this war and sanctions on European economies, and because we are a small, open, pro-export-oriented economy, so, of course, the impact on the Czech economy. I will repeat what I said in the budget committee, which, according to the law, discussed the draft state budget before the first reading. In addition to the war operation in Ukraine, Russia is waging an economic war with Europe and with the democratic countries of the world. For example, when you look at the question of filling gas reservoirs in Europe - the problem in the Czech Republic is not nearly as big as in other European countries - Gazprom has systematically and plannedly reduced gas reserves in storage tanks since the summer of 2020, where it competed with its capacity. That means it was at least medium-term preparation for what we call Vladimir Putin using energy resources as a weapon. It uses them to manipulate the market, which culminated sometimes at the turn of August and September, when we saw senseless, senseless high energy prices, and it was a panicked reaction of the market to how it closed with the rooster, the imaginary rooster, it dropped. We are watching an endless series of reports of so-called technical problems on pipelines that lead from Russia to Europe. Despite all this, Europe and the Czech Republic have managed to obtain sufficient gas reserves for this winter. A few weeks or months ago, I answered a question from the opposition benches - I mean, the question is legitimate, I'm not criticizing it - if we have enough gas. Today I can repeat what I said here a few weeks ago: Yes, we will have enough gas for the whole winter and there is no danger of what still some in June feared that there will be forced shutdown of some plants, some factories, some businesses. By this morning, we've filled our clips with almost 95 percent. We are at the end of October and the supply is more than 3 billion 200 million cc's. Of course, good weather also helps these good news in Europe, because if we see such weather as this October, it certainly reduces gas consumption throughout Europe and therefore in the Czech Republic. Why am I stating these facts? Because both war and retaliation sanctions have an impact on the state of European economies and on the state of European public finances. Almost all of the Member States' budgets, respectively, are under enormous pressure from extraordinary spending, which mainly causes high energy prices and high inflation. We cannot be satisfied with the level of inflation in the Czech Republic, but if we monitor statistics well within Europe, then if we use the month-on-month comparison, we are no longer at the top of the pellet. With us, high inflation began earlier, and I firmly believe that we will be among the first countries where the high inflation will fall. Of course, all of this is reflected in the needs of state budget spending. In fact, I am commenting on at least some of the substantial increases in expenditure proposed by the government for 2023. And now for the numbers. Today we're going to decide on three basic parameters. The first is the total revenue of the state budget, which is 1 928 billion, the total expenditure of the state budget of 2 trillion 223 billion and the proposed deficit of the state budget of 295 billion, which is 15 billion higher than the initially approved budget deficit for 2022, but is 80 billion lower than after the approved amendment of the state budget for this year. We voted on this in the Chamber of Deputies in the past few days. First of all, income. Tax revenue excluding social insurance premiums is estimated at 947 billion, and tax revenue includes the 100 billion extra income that we discussed yesterday and that we will be debating in the coming weeks. I don't want to go back to debating whether it was right or wrong, whether it was usual or unusual. What I said yesterday is true: we are in a non-standard time and I described the reasons at the beginning of my speech, so unfortunately we had to proceed to a non-standard discussion of some laws. It is true that, as a government, we assume that the laws that allow the income of these 100 billion for extraordinary expenses, that is to say, compensation for the price of electricity and gas, will be approved in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate before the final vote on the state budget at third reading. In addition, social security income of 688 billion is expected. I'm going to round it to the units and not read the tenths, but in this case the tenths are hundreds of millions - to realise how high the amounts we are dealing with and how high the amounts we're going to decide. And because we are in the saddle of drawing European money, when two programming periods alternate, so hardest, that means that the smallest revenue from European resources will be in 2023 and there is an estimated income of about 139 billion. Then in the budget for technical and historical reasons, we have an item called income from special privatisation accounts, but this is an account where dividends are sent from state enterprises and from enterprises where the State is to participate. So up to $45 billion is supposed to be involved here. Let's go to expenses. The biggest expenditures logically are in the social sphere. I'll talk about it in more detail, but if I add up all the expenses that are referred to as social expenses, that amount is going to be more than a trillion crowns, exactly 1 020 billion. A substantial part, the largest part of which is pension insurance expenditure. It is expected that next year it will be almost 672 billion, which amounts to 78 percent of social welfare expenditure. And in this amount, two major events are taken into account, first of all, the standard statutory remuneration of pensions, and secondly, for the first time since January 1, 2023, the so-called education system will account for 500 crowns a month for each child raised. [[10.10 hours]] I have some graphs with me that I want to document - so that it can be seen visually, I have chosen at least the basic ones - what is the development in the key indicators. So here I'm going to show you -- if it's not very obvious, then I'm going to send it to you electronically -- the development of an average pension. In 2022, this is a relatively qualified estimate, we are not yet at the end of the year, the average pension is CZK 18 350 per month, according to the draft state budget in 2023 the average pension will be CZK 19,500 and in 2024 according to current macroeconomic predictions it will be CZK 20 265. As I said on other occasions when I was performing in the Chamber of Deputies, for the first time in practice, we have tried an instrument that we have long in the law, and these are the extraordinary valorisation of pensions at a time of high inflation, and this mechanism has been used twice this year. So that's 672 billion. Other important large expenditures of the state budget are payments to the public health insurance system. I don't think I need to comment in more detail on this state budget item, we've had a long debate about this whole year. Let me just remind you - I'll show you the graph, and I took the year 2018 as a comparative base. It has no political context, but I think five years is at least the medium-term indicator where we can look, whoever ruled, how spending grew in individual chapters. When we look at the payment for state insured people, we all know that next year it will be CZK 1,900 per month per insured person, a total of CZK 142 billion. Let's look at the graph together. [[He's showing the material.]] And in 2018, state budget expenditure for public health insurance payments grew by more than 100 percent. In 2018, it was about 68 billion from the state budget, and next year it will be under the approved law, and thanks to our approval of the automatic valorisation mechanism, we can imagine how the development will be in the coming years, and those amounts are included in the budget forecast for 2024, out of 68 billion we are going to 142 billion over five years. There are, of course, covido years counted, but fortunately, those extraordinary expenses related to the covid will not be applied anymore in 2023, those circumstances are simply more favourable to the public health insurance system as far as the video pandemic is concerned. Capital expenditure is planned from the state budget of approximately CZK 203 billion. I always recommend to everyone because you see the entire documentation of the state budget in front of my chair, but I think that the most important thing for basic orientation is the B-book. The B-book contains a report on the draft state budget law, and there are time series and more detailed justifications for significant budget revenue, as well as significant expenditure items of the state budget. And when we look at the development of investment, we will actually see what I have been talking about in the case of European funds, that is, we will be on the bottom next year, and for this year investment of 240 billion has been approved, of which 78 billion from the state budget and 126 billion from European resources, and for next year the ratio is turning dramatically, when 127 billion will be released from the state capital budget. This is historically the highest figure, so far it was the highest in 2020, when it was 100 billion - I am talking about reality, of course 2022 and 2023 are estimates - and from European sources only 76 billion. For the sake of clarity, this year we expect revenue from European funds for capital expenditure 126 billion. In other words, there will be a decrease in the use of European resources for investment by 50,5 billion for logical reasons - it has no connection with the fact that we are unable to draw and absorb these resources, but almost all of this blackout is designed, covered by an increase in expenditure from the state budget, by a total of 49 billion against this year. All chapter administrators in the government's state budget assumed that these were realistic figures and that they were able to invest this money effectively in so much needed - particularly transport - infrastructure in 2023. So much for explaining how we managed to maintain the state's investment activity for 2023. Yesterday, at the second reading of the tax package, we discussed - and I know that the proposal has broad support - increasing extraordinary depreciation for the years 2022 and 2023, and this should contribute to the investment activity of the private sector, because both sectors, both public and private, are very important for investment activity and therefore for economic growth not only this year or next year, but also for the years following. Expenditure on salaries and other costs of contribution organisations is budgeted at a total of 264 billion for 2023 and is approximately 17 billion higher than in 2022. In the Government's programming declaration, the Government's commitment is to have defence expenditure of 2% of GDP by 2025 at the latest. The third of the charts I've prepared shows us defense expenses from 2008 to 2025. For next year, it is supposed to be almost CZK 112 billion, which should be 1,52 percent of GDP, which we are getting closer - or when we are actually comparing the last 15 years of 2009, when it was also 1.52 percent of GDP, but at that time less than 60 billion CZK was enough. Similarly, in the medium term, you see the government's plan to increase defense spending at roughly CZK 20 billion over the next two years, so that in 2025 we get around 2 percent of the state's defense budget spending, at which time it should be around CZK 155 billion. I'm sure the Secretary of Defense will discuss this in more detail, and the same goes for what I said in general about capital spending. In close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, we put only those investments that are realistic in the next three years in the draft budget and in the medium term. We are by far not the only country that increases defense spending. Sophisticated weapons systems aren't made for storage. It's not enough for someone to decide that you're going to release the money now, order it, and within a few months, they have a van in their territory. This means, even in this area, we are competing with many of our allies for which country will be able to buy the necessary weapons systems to strengthen our country's defence. And I assume that the vast majority of the political parties and movements represented in the Chamber of Deputies support an increase in the defence capacity of the Czech Republic, and thus increase the security of our citizens. [[10.20 hours]] The substantial expenditure of the state budget is the contributions to European Union funds, which will grow from this year's 60 billion to almost 65 billion next year, but despite this increase, we will remain net beneficiaries throughout this programming period, which is up to 2027. In other words, we will receive and exhaust more from European funds than we will take as a state. This is often repeated in the Chamber of Deputies, and we are aware of all the club members. We have a unique chance to draw on several important European sources not only in this but also in the next three years. In addition to the standard Structural Funds, we have the Fair Transformation Fund, where the first challenges are launched to help transform our most structurally affected regions, namely the Karlovy Vary Region, the Ústecký Region and the Moravian-Silesian Region. In addition, in response to the covid crisis, Europe approved Recovery and Resilience Facility, which means instruments of economic support and recovery, in the Czech Republic it is the National Recovery Plan. First of all, there was an increase in the overall allocation for all member countries, thus also for the Czech Republic. And it is a new instrument that comes out, which we have prepared in Europe in response to Russia's manipulation of markets, especially energy, and that is the money to serve to reduce dependence on Russian fossil fuels, the so-called REPowerEU. We managed to arrange for the distribution of these additional EUR 20 billion to ECOFIN last month. I think we were able to change the covid key because the National Recovery Plan was called the "covid key," the most of which was drawn by countries from the south of Europe, because the emphasis was placed on unemployment in particular. We have succeeded, and I think that everyone is satisfied with the result, actually, because none of the Member States opposed it. We had enough qualified majority and only one state abstained during the official vote. We will get about 3.3 percent of this, while we have about 2.2 percent of the European Union's population. The countries of Central and Eastern Europe will be more supported from this extraordinary source, because they are more dependent on Russian fossil fuels. I consider it fair. This means all of these are extraordinary funds, except for the structural ones, and if we are able to prepare smart, efficient projects, we are investing in our future, and for the involvement of European money. The government, in cooperation with many, whether from the public sector or the private sector, is working on it. Typically, if I could comment on potential projects that could receive support from the REPowerEU, it is considered to extend the TAL pipeline so that we can completely get rid of the dependence on Russian oil imports, preparatory work, for example, on the Dukovan hot water line to Brno, and indeed all projects that will reduce dependence on these fossil fuels imported from Russia. As you know, Europe has agreed on an embargo or a ban on imports of oil and petroleum products from Russia. We managed as the Czech Republic to negotiate an exception of 18 months, which will start running from 1 January next year. That means we've got about a year and a half to handle these investment events. We can also use the money from the REPowerEU to repeat what we did in Holland, where we competed and gained three-eighths of the capacity of the first newly opened LNG terminal after the incursion of Putin in Ukraine, and thanks to this we have secured supplies of approximately 3 billion ccs per year. It is said to be one third, but I assume that consumption will decrease, that it will not be 9 billion anymore, so it can be about 30 to 35 percent of the annual production. And our neighbours, who have access to the sea, whether it is Poland, Germany or beyond, the Netherlands, are building other floating terminals that should bridge the period until those solid LNG terminals are operational. And when we look at the evolution of world gas prices, all the measures that make Europe as a whole lead to even spot prices these days, the market price below our price under consideration. Although slightly, I think that the European solution is also best for the Czech economy, for the Czech public budget, because the European solution is the cheapest. Yes, there is still an unresolved question of ceilinging gas prices for electricity production, not gas as usual, but that is being dealt with intensively, and there is hope that by the end of November we could find a European solution in this. Again, it will be cheaper than 27 national solutions and 27 national state budget expenditures. So there was so much to pay to the European Union, but I felt it necessary to say that we would be clean beneficiaries and what chances we have of using European resources if we were able to prepare smart and effective projects. The last thing in front of some final summary I want to sum up is, it's called the government debt service again. To translate it into normal Czech, it is payment for debts that the Czech Republic has produced during its existence. I have a graph here that doesn't make me happy. When we look at it, actually from some 57 to 58 billion, which we paid in 2012 to 2013 - you can see that I have given a whole long period here, that I didn't just choose the time when we were in opposition - then it also fell due to favourable interest margins to around 40 billion. This was in principle managed to hold from 2016 to 2021. It was sometimes just above 40 billion, sometimes just below 40 billion. I think - or I'm sure the smallest amount was in 2019, 39.6 billion. Last year it was 42.2 billion, this year we estimate it to be 50 billion. [[Mrs Schiller is studying the graph shown by Minister Stanjura.]] I'll give it to everyone, but I'm sure. And the estimate, of course, is an estimate, we can say that this is an estimate, but it is also based on the years in which we will repay the previously issued edition of government bonds, is 2022 - 50 billion, 2023 - 70 billion, 2024 - 85 billion and 2025 - 100 billion. Of course, with inflation and GDP growth, the percentage of these expenditures is not so dramatic, but we see a 100% increase in interest over one parliamentary period from 2022 to 2025. In my introductory words, I tried to comment on the most important amounts, whether on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. If there are any more questions, I'm sure I'll answer them. I suppose that individual chapters will be attended by members of the government who are present and are not on a business trip abroad, for example. I will try to represent them there, if necessary, because some of the members of the government are really out of the Czech Republic and cannot participate in today's state budget discussion at first reading. [[10.30 hours]] The state budget as a whole seeks to balance three key areas, three tasks that each state budget has or should have according to the Government of the Czech Republic. First of all, maintaining social reconciliation. When you look at the comparison of expenditure in individual chapters, you see that the increase in this chapter is great but justified. We cannot always be alarmed by an increase in a specific amount, but we must assess whether these expenditures are justified. We're sure they're justified. Not all social expenditures are in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so let me just remind you, the reality of 2021 was about 763 billion, the draft state budget for 2022 758 billion. Budget expenditure after Amendment 791 billion and draft state budget for the next year 892 billion. In other words, between 2021 and 2023 in just three years, the increase is approximately CZK 220 billion per year. The second pillar of the state budget, which I think should include every draft state budget, is the state's investment activity. I was just talking about it when I said that we were planning to invest from the state budget, that it wasn't all public budget capital spending of over 200 billion with that substantial increase in the state budget share by almost 50 billion. The third pillar, which we must not forget, is the deficit and long-term management of the state. I hear often - and I would say that even justified - criticism that we have not yet prepared any systemic changes to reduce the structural deficit. We don't think we can argue with that. The only thing to argue with is that in 2022 and unfortunately in 2023 there are so many external exceptional circumstances that have more urgency than major structural changes - because it sounds nice, big structural changes, but when we translate it into Czech, it only means two possible things. Either we increase the tax burden on citizens and companies, or we reduce the expenditure of the state budget in a rather rapid way, in other words, in some way restrict the extent of the services the state provides, whether citizens, institutions, governments or companies. And when each of us responds honestly, it is not difficult to write such a proposal, but it is very difficult to convince not only the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, but to convince our society that it is necessary, that it is necessary and that it will not lead to a reduction in the standard of living of our citizens. berit from this point in my speech a commitment that this is a matter that will not only be devoted to the Ministry of Finance, but to the government honestly in the coming months, and I assume that in the course of next year we will come up with at least a few changes to help reduce the structural deficit of the state budget. But it's not gonna be easy, it's not gonna be painless, and it's gonna be accompanied by big political clashes. We have to admit that, because if it were simple and painless, any government would do it without pointing a finger at any government or attacking any government. So if we do this, it won't be quick, it won't be easy, but more importantly, it won't be painless. But I don't want to end up being so pessimistic. I think that the draft state budget contains the emphasis of the government on all three key priorities that I have talked about: social reconciliation in society, investment activity in the state, and thinking that we must think about fiscal responsibility and consider every crown of state spending. The state has no money of its own. The state only has what it collects from taxpayers, plus the debts we make because we have state budget deficits. I believe that this proposal corresponds to the international economic situation and the position that the Czech Republic holds in it. Let us remind ourselves that we are not a small country in Europe, we are the ninth largest country in the European Union, and logically we are at the forefront of those who opposed Putin, even at the cost of seeing negative impacts on the European and Czech economies. Finally, let me ask you, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, to support these basic parameters of the budget at first reading, so that we can engage in a detailed debate on individual chapters, revenue and expenditure of the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now, in agreement, I give the floor to Prime Minister Petr Fial. The rapporteur, Mr Bernard, will then appear. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank Minister Zbyněk Stanjur for the presentation of the budget, of course for the work he has done on the budget in this difficult situation and in difficult external conditions with my colleagues, and allow me to mention this key proposal in a broader political and strategic context, as well as in terms of our government's programme, and to underline some of the things that Minister Stanjura has already mentioned here. When our government took over the administration of the Czech Republic last year, we had then accelerating inflation and budget with a deficit of CZK 420 billion, and that was essential, these were some essential parameters for our next steps in the budgetary area. We have been very responsible for budget planning from the start. We do not promise the impossible, we have always clearly told voters what the Czech Republic can afford and what it cannot afford. That is why we have prepared an anti-inflationary budget for this year, we have saved on the operation of the state, we have frozen all unnecessary expenditures and only thanks to these measures at the beginning of the year, only because at the beginning of the year we have taken this responsible approach to preparing the budget, so we have been able to compensate or raise pensions, compensate seniors for high inflation, help with high energy prices and invest in the construction of transport infrastructure. This is how we set it up at the beginning, and this has created these possibilities for us, and this is how we would continue, in normal circumstances, to continue, we would continue successfully if the normal circumstances persisted. Unfortunately, we are far from living in normal times. Since February, we have to face something absolutely extraordinary, the consequences of the war in Ukraine and the associated energy crisis. War changed everything. It problematics our security, our security in quotation marks, and has also wobbleed up world markets. Russia is blackmailing us every day, and we must quickly and expensively seek alternative raw materials, provide the Czech Republic with enough energy for the next years - Minister Stanjura mentioned it here too. We compensate citizens and companies for the effects of electricity and gas prices. We're paying the costs of helping refugees. We are increasing investment in both external and internal security, because the risks we face have increased and have increased literally by jump. Last but not least, we also help Ukraine defend itself and survive. [[10.40 hours]] In such a situation the Czech state has never been before, the modern Czech state has not faced such challenges, and yet we are able to solve all these problems, and in addition - and this is important - we are still able to invest in strategic areas in solving these problems. And we're doing it, and I'm reminding you again, thanks to our responsible interventions in this year's budget at the turn of the year, before the war, when we created the conditions for all of this. The mantinels or limits of the revenue and expenditure side of the budget are therefore clear, they are given by these things that I am talking about, the scope for the solution is unprecedentedly narrow, and it is also burdened with a high degree of uncertainty, a huge degree of uncertainty. We all get that, and there's no need to walk around. There's a huge degree of uncertainty. The consequences of Russia's aggression, security, humanitarian measures, the energy crisis, imbalances in the global market are all the factors that we must face, which we must take into account in our decision-making and which, unfortunately, we must also acknowledge, will not disappear quickly. None of this disappears quickly. With these bases, we have prepared the budget for this year and in these boundaries and with these bases we have also prepared and drawn up the budget for 2023. So it's a war budget, it's a crisis budget, and it's a budget based on assumptions that we have to assume to some extent in the coming months and years. Defence, investment, investment in transport infrastructure, investment in education remain among our main budgetary priorities for 2023. After all, this corresponds to our government's programming statement. In quieter times, we could go deeper in these things, we could go further, because underinvestment in these strategic areas, long-term underinvestment, is unnecessarily reducing our country's potential. But, as Europe faces an energy war, the government must count on one more extraordinary priority, and Minister Stanjura here spoke of it. In addition to the priorities that I have mentioned here, there is another extraordinary priority, and this is a great help to people and companies to cope with the rise in energy prices. This assistance is very important, if not in some aspects, the most important item in our budget. In the next year, we will make up some CZK 200 billion and about half of it will go to the ceiling of high energy prices. The next tens of billions go into pension valorization, the remission of renewables fees, the housing contribution, and other things that we have prepared to meet this priority, this current priority. These 200 billion will help people and companies overcome the existential problems caused by Russia's aggression, giving them confidence, and this is important, giving them confidence that expensive energy will not threaten them more than is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what I say, and despite this priority, we do not give up our visions and we continue to invest in areas that will bring us prosperity in the long term, and this is also important, we must not forget this even at this difficult moment, the Czech Government does not forget this and it is reflected in this budget. So we invest in areas that will give us priority over the long term. [[Prosperity?]] I'll mention some of them here. We expect to increase the Ministry of Education's budget by CZK 17 billion. This is money that is important and perhaps necessary to preserve the quality of education, science and research. R&I expenditure will reach nearly 50 billion, which is the highest in history despite the crisis, especially in the area of national resources, where the increase is almost a billion. Investments in transport infrastructure, the construction of motorways, roads, railways and the modernisation of existing ones remain our priority. We therefore increased the Ministry of Transport's budget by CZK 30 billion. The budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure will work with the record 150 billion crowns, and whether you came here today or yesterday, you will understand that this is well spent money, and most importantly that it is money that is absolutely necessary. Due to the current security challenges and our commitments, but above all, due to our current security challenges, we are increasing our defense spending. The Ministry of Defence can count on expenses of almost CZK 112 billion, which means an increase of almost 23 billion compared to this year. The share of defense-to-GDP expenditure will thus reach 1,5 percent of gross domestic product, which means that we have taken an important step and others will follow in order to get very quickly closer to the long-term promised 2% in the coming years. And what we're doing this year will, of course, allow us to invest in soldiers, but it also brings the possibility of buying military equipment, even those that have been delayed here for years, but now we simply cannot afford it due to the security situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that the expenditure of the various chapters we have prepared is justified. We are investing in strategic areas that are key to ensuring the security of our citizens, but we are also investing in strategic areas that will ensure that our countries will develop successfully and that we will not lag behind European and global competition. Despite the complex challenges I have been talking about here, we have managed to achieve that the budget, as we have prepared it and as we are presenting it here, does not bring a dramatic burden on our economy, which I would also like to emphasise here. It even brings relief or a slight improvement in a number of important indicators compared to the situation of recent years, whether compared to the years in which economic boom took place, we had enough cheap energy and there was no war in Europe, i.e. even when compared to these years, the budget, as we have prepared it, not only does it bring a dramatic burden on the economy, but even a slight improvement in a number of essential indicators. To illustrate, I will give just a few examples. The combined tax quota amounts to 34,5 %, i.e. even after the inclusion of exceptional measures - the windfall tax and the levy on excess revenues from electricity production - will be at the level of 2018. We are reducing the share of mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending on the budget, which is also important, and let us be aware of what this means and how difficult it is to do, and yet that is what we are achieving in this budget. While in 2023 the mandatorial expenditures will account for 53,8 percent of expenditures, this year it was 54,6 and in 2018 - I am deliberately comparing the flights of booms before the covid - it was 55 percent, so we are reducing the share of mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures. And - and this is important and I think this is a very positive report and I am proud of it as Prime Minister - we have achieved a record in terms of investment or capital spending. Even without counting EU resources, they will exceed CZK 127 billion, with EU money it is even CZK 202 billion. When we compare this with the previous period, in 2018, the capital expenditures amounted to CZK 116 billion and, a year earlier, only 81 billion. This is the case in this budget with investments, and I think that from the perspective of the future of the Czech Republic and the responsibility for this future, this is extremely important and it is something that I want here and I must remind you. [[10.50 hours]] And so, as I have shown here, that the budget, even in these difficult conditions - even with all the challenges, the current problems - is not getting worse, but, on the contrary, it improves the basic economic parameters, and it is the result of a thoughtful approach to preparing the budget, so we apply a similarly thought-out approach in other areas, even in terms of what is being discussed in the media, and that is the number of civil servants. The opposition parties and the media, and it is, of course, okay, remind us that we have promised to reduce the number of officials by 13 per cent and are opposed by the current increase in the number of civil servants that we will receive less than 8 000. But we have to tell each other to interpret the numbers correctly, what kind of employees they are. Are they officials? Well, they're not bureaucrats. The number of employees is only increased in some priority areas, and more than half of them are teachers and other school employees. And here, logically, we respond to the onset of stronger years, and new schools are being built in a number of places, and it's clear that someone has to teach there, and that's reflected in these numbers. Another third of those newly recruited employees are soldiers, police officers, firefighters, rescue workers and other professions that take care of our external and internal security, and these requirements result from both the current security situation and the fact that we have not taken the steps we should have taken in this area for a long time. Indeed, there are very few officials in that number, about every tenth. Moreover, they are, for the most part, people who are helping to deal with the current crisis, such as taking care of the problem-free asylum management of war refugees, but also addressing other important challenges such as illegal migration. Surely there is no one among those officials whom we have accepted to please him or anyone else. All these people are dealing with crisis management or dealing with some problem we inherited. But - and this is most important - unlike the number of civil servants, when we add up the numbers of newly recruited and released civil servants, it will come to our attention that their number has actually fallen. Yes, it is not the promised 13 percent at the moment, but we will also get to this number - we still have until the end of the parliamentary term - we will get to this number as soon as we can solve the current problems. So the number of officials does not increase, the number of officials, when we add up the newly received and add up the released civil servants, the number of officials, on the contrary, is falling slightly. I am not hiding that it is not as fast and as consistent as we would like, it is due to the situation, but we will achieve the promised 13 percent once we manage to solve the current problems. Ladies and gentlemen, our government is presenting a draft budget to the House, which, as Minister Stanjura has already mentioned, is working with total expenditure of CZK 2, 223 billion, with total revenue of CZK 1,928 billion. The projected deficit is therefore CZK 295 billion, compared to the deficit this year's crisis year, it is CZK 80 billion less. One of the main causes of the relatively high deficit is rising expenditure on pensions, which, of course, are driven by high inflation, especially by high inflation. But what's important? By the way, we're fully compensating the inflation for the elderly in this way, as a single population. Yes, it's legal valorisation, but we have to have money for it, we have to allocate it in the state budget, and as the only group of residents, we compensate for high inflation. But what does that mean? This means an increase in pension insurance expenditure of CZK 81 billion against this year's plan. I don't think anyone here in the Chamber of Deputies will find themselves wanting to cut spending in this particular area. I am not hiding that the budget deficit is higher than I would like it to be, but given the situation as I have reminded or read it to you here, given the situation, it is an understandable step and the necessary thing. We have extraordinary expenses ahead of us - we are dealing with these extraordinary expenditures with special short-term and exceptional instruments. We discussed one of these instruments very thoroughly here yesterday, and that is the taxation of the extraordinary profits of some companies. Yes, that's an extraordinary tool we're about to use. On the other hand, and this is good news for citizens and good news for businesses, even in this difficult situation, we do not increase ordinary taxes. We will never cease to seek a state that serves citizens who communicates with citizens and with ourselves through modern technology and which manages effectively with citizens' money. Smarter governance of the country, something that we are working on, and that we are working on in this period, will mean the gradual abolition of outdated agendas and other cuts in the number of officials and the expenditure saved. But every government, and of course it also applies to our government, must address current problems in priority. We are in the midst of the biggest crisis in Europe since World War II, the pace of the necessary crisis measures is absolutely ruthless, and we do not have the luxury of stopping, breathing, thinking calmly about what to do next. We simply do not have such luxury, we can at most slow down and think about the necessary solutions during the run, so that we can quickly solve the existential challenges, and at the same time, and that is what we do and reflect in this budget, in addition to solving the current challenges, we must not lose sight of or lose sight of our long-term goals. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for this very reason, I would like to conclude very clearly and with all the responsibility to say that this government is in no way giving up one of its main objectives, which we promised to the voters and which we promised in this House, and that is debt reduction and overall consolidation of state finances. As I said in my speech, we were forced to postpone these plans, because of the consequences of the war in Ukraine. However, if the economic budgetary situation develops at least a little satisfactorily during the next spring, we will come up with an action plan to start increasing our country's spending forcefully and systematically. A healthy, unindebted, efficient state remains our main objective, and I am clearly saying for the government: it is our main goal that we are going to step up to, in principle, during this term. Ladies and gentlemen, the next year's budget is therefore the result of literally crisis management. We present a budget that will ensure security and necessary investment and our citizens' above-standard assistance. It will allow us to bridge the worst phase of the crisis so that we can continue with the necessary reforms soon, and I therefore believe that you will agree with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u5	Thank you, thank you to the Prime Minister, and given that the President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, it was the President's decision under number 42. The Committee on Budgets has tabled a resolution delivered as House Press 315/1, so now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to be purely formal, as the rules of budget approval tell me. The draft State Budget Act of 2023 was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies by the Government on 30 September. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered the bill to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, which dealt with the proposal on 19 October at its 19th meeting. The Committee on Budgets recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 at first reading: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. Approves: A. - the amount of revenue determined by the amount of CZK 1 927 954 141 348; - the amount of expenditure determined by amount of CZK 2 222 954 141 348; - the difference between income and expenditure determined by the amount of -295 000 000 000 CZK. [[Balance]] B. Method of settlement of the balance by the following financing items: (a) increase in state financial assets accounts by CZK 1 448 870 760; (b) a change in state debt by CZK 296 448 870 760. C. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 1 898 681 000. D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely contributions of a total amount of CZK 10 783 120 200. E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely the contribution of a total amount of CZK 1,320,632,800. F. The authorisation of the Minister of Finance pursuant to Section 4 of the Act and the authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to the regions in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 5, to the capital city of Prague in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 7 and to each municipality in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 8 to the Act. II. He notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023: (a) it contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 139 074 726 609 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 64 500 000 000; (b) determine the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Companies, a.s., amounting to CZK 218 000 000 000; (c) it contains in Annex No. 9 of the Act a list of the subsidies from the listed chapters of the State budget provided in 2023 with the designation of their beneficiaries and an indication of their amount which are not subject to the obligation to publish a call for applications for grant under the budgetary rules. III. He commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 as follows: [[1.]] " - I would like to refer here to the text of the resolution, because the relevant committees are familiar with the chapters assigned and some of them are already scheduled to be discussed in the next committee week. '2. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies." Finally, if there is a need and no objection, I will refer only to the wording of the budget committee resolution, which I have just read, so that I do not have to repeat it all again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I hereby open a general debate to which President Schillerová has entered with priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to say my speech here on the draft state budget for 2023. I apologize in advance for making it more extensive, but I need to take a little more detail. Of course, I will then be accompanied by colleagues for the club of the YES movement, mostly our shadow ministers, who will speak in more detail on the various chapters of the budget for 2023. We heard the Minister's reasons and the presentation of the budget, then the Prime Minister spoke. Well, I'll leave that. I'll focus more on the facts of the budget and perhaps comment on the Minister. We all know - and we do not question either of us or us in opposition benches - that at present it is a very difficult time, that citizens, companies, public sector entities face a number of real problems that demand solutions and demand logical money. I know what I'm talking about, I've been there for so long, even though the reasons were completely different. I mean, I don't want to compare it, every crisis has its own specifics. So let's focus on the current one. So we have here, above all, an energy crisis, which is primarily linked to the rise in fuel prices, not least the jumping and unprecedented increase in energy prices, when the year-on-year export price... electricity prices in August 2022 increased by almost 300 percent, the import prices of gas by almost 440 percent. One of the highest inflations in the European Union is added, which dramatically reduces the real income of Czech households - up to a third of households says that it is difficult to come out with its funds - but also the increasingly obvious problem in the Czech industry, when the Czech Republic is threatened as one of the most industrialized countries in the European Union with a huge domino effect of bankruptcy. At the same time, the standard public election process consists of defining problems, subsequent analysis of framework problems, discussions on possible solutions, defining economic policy objectives, identifying possible options for problem solving, identifying criteria for assessing variants, their subsequent evaluation, and then selecting the most appropriate option. Then there is to be a crucial moment and this is the implementation of the selected variant. Ex post is still being done to check the results. So much theory. I'm sorry, I couldn't forgive her because I'm gonna want to build my next words on her. For me, the problem with the current government five-calice is that they have a fundamental problem in the process of selecting a specific variant and implementing a selected variant. Despite my recognition at the beginning of my speech that there are a number of important problems, it is necessary to say quite clearly that although I can understand the complex international political-economic situation, the current five-calice does not solve it quickly enough for Czech citizens and companies, and it escalates it unnecessarily many times. The state budget submitted for 2023 is not a budget that would calm the complicated situation in the following year. This budget is full of controversy, which I will gradually get to in my performance. If we compare the original first draft of September's State Budget for 2023, which the Minister of Finance sent to the government, with the current draft budget sent by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies, there is an increase in all three key parameters - income, expenditure and also an increase in deficit. The budget envisages the Baťa deficit of 295 billion, but it does not correspond entirely to reality. [[11.10 hours]] First, I'm going to collect the revenue from the state budget. For 2023 they are designed just below the level of CZK 2 trillion, namely CZK 1 928 billion. Dear colleagues, for 2022, the Minister of Finance budgeted revenue of CZK 1,613 billion, i.e. on the revenue side of the budget of 2023, with an increase of more than 300 billion. This increase is linked to the extraordinary inflation estimated for 2023, average inflation is estimated at 8.8% in the Ministry of Finance's macroeconomic forecast, and economic growth, which is assumed by the same macroeconomic forecast for 2023 of 1,1 percent of real GDP. There is also a gradual recovery of tourism after the health crisis, which is also supported by the lowest unemployment rate from European Union countries, which our government, the government of Andrej Babiš, managed to maintain during the health crisis, when operations were closed, limited business. Another factor is the planned increase in tax burden - we talked about it here for a very long time yesterday, until evening hours - to which there is no valid legislation, and it is therefore illegal, but I will also get to that. Moreover, there is also increased revenue in the budget from other taxes compared to those assessed by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts in August this year. Although it is only lower billions of crowns, I say in quotation marks, but I do not really understand this change, because the revenues themselves - and we have never progressed differently in our government, I have never progressed otherwise - are to be estimated on the basis of August predictions from the Ministry of Finance workshop, and therefore the September proposal and the current proposal should have been quite identical from the point of view of income, but it is not so. This proposal increases both the income tax of natural persons, VAT, social security premiums, there is some sort of qualified estimate of the Ministry of Finance. I suppose that estimate was made by the experts of the Ministry of Finance, but also by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts itself criticized this on the budget committee, where it was assessed before the first reading of the budget. It's not standard procedure, it never progresses like that. It is not my main criticism, I simply said on the Committee on Budgets that these are lower units of billions, so it is simply not the main criticism that I am heading towards the budget, but I cannot ignore it, because the independent Committee on Budget Forecasts has also drawn attention to this. Dear colleagues, let's be fair to each other now. The main entity that benefits from inflation in this Republic yesterday we learned that it is the banking sector, that it is the energy sector when we were debating the amendment to the tax on extraordinary profits, the tax package, but it is necessary to realise that this is the state in particular. The inflation of the state is overwhelmingly increasing revenue, for example VAT revenues should amount to CZK 381.8 billion. Corporate tax collection, corporate tax, is estimated at CZK 257,2 billion. The standard collection of corporate tax is estimated at CZK 157,2 billion at state budget level, and the expected growth of social security contributions is expected to be CZK 53 billion higher against 2022, i.e. by around 10 percent, and I could continue this way. It's all in your state budget documentation. Moreover, quite a fundamental part - I do not see the Minister of Transport here, the damage - has moved quite a substantial part of the state deficit into the balance of state special-purpose funds. Here I have to say that the Minister of Finance was creative, and part of the imbalance has shifted to state special-purpose funds, primarily to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Therefore, it is also necessary to look at the data on the balance of special-purpose funds, which at the beginning of September counted on the deficit balance of the fund of 2.7 billion, but the new proposal counts on the balance of 33.4 billion. Overall, the state budget deficit did not deepen by 25 billion compared to the first budget submitted by the Minister of Finance, who sent to the government, but deepened by the fat 55 billion crowns. But I'm still not done here. So far, we have had an optical reduction in the state deficit and an increase in the government fund deficit, but also an increase in VAT collection revenue, personal income tax, social security premiums, which has not been approved by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. However, as a result of further creativity, the draft state budget for the following year also contains revenue - income from the tax on exceptional profits and the ceiling of market income. And here we are no longer talking about tiny billions of crowns, and here it is equal to 100 billion crowns, per crown exactly, 100 billion crowns we have from these two sources in the revenue budget, 85 of the tax on extraordinary profits that we talked about here last night over half a day, and 15 billion of the ceiling on market income in the contribution, that's in gesture - that's not the tax - that's in the gesture of Minister Síkela. We've never seen a proposal before, but we've already got it on the revenue side. I'm still not done. I'm just gonna take these two points apart a little bit. The amendment that concerns the tax on extraordinary profits is something that I said here several times yesterday that we have never had here before - the way in which this change is accepted and communicated at all for 85 billion. I said it again here yesterday, I have to repeat it in the context of the budget, that it does not have legislative support, although it went through the second reading in a non-standard way yesterday, but we don't really know what the final version will be, we don't really know what the five-calice agree on when we have here from the government bench, five-calice, several amendments that have been read, then they have been modified, then they have been changed, then they have been loaded, so we're going to expect with tension what will actually be voted out sometime next week. The Minister is counting on 85 billions only for the next year in total, according to these calculations, but I repeat, there are no relevant calculations that we can study and maybe debate, there are no calculations for these three years, 2023, 2024, 2025, up to 150 billion of this tax on extraordinary profits. Again, I must stress that this is an unprecedented breach of the established standards of the budgetary procedure. The inclusion of the tax on unexpected profits has no support in current legislation, and at this point it is a contradiction with the standardised and so far used state budget preparation process, as well as a contradiction with the legislation laying down budgetary rules. And I don't think it's just me, the former Minister of Education, Mr Gazdík, who said at a press conference a week ago that an increase in the salaries of teachers couldn't count on it if the law wasn't passed. Two meters would say my honored colleague Patrik Nachr, Nacher, sorry. This conclusion is, of course, fully supported by the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts. The Committee declares that the inclusion of revenue from unexpected profits and the introduction of a ceiling on market income from electricity generation among the revenues of the state budget in the following year has no support in current legislation, thus contrary to the normal process of preparing the state budget. The Committee also unanimously notes that it still does not have sufficient information to assess the budget's above extraordinary revenue in terms of the probability of achieving it in the following year. [[11.20 hours]] There is no way that the revenue of the state budget is planned on the basis of legislation, which not only was not approved at the time of the examination of the draft law on the State budget, but there is no consensus in this revenue item in the government coalition, so today it is impossible to assess its potential political support across the Chamber of Deputies, which necessarily depends on specific parameters of legal regulation, which makes it impossible to establish a responsible prognosis. This is one of the reasons why we do not have developed such as RIA, or impact, or actually the result of the economic impact for this new tax. Last but not least, this opinion and my opinion also coincides with the opinion of the National Budget Board, which stresses that ignoring the basic rules and principles of budget formation will lead to a weakening of parliamentary control of public finances in the medium term, as well as the credibility of the Czech Republic on international markets. It's obviously not a problem for the current five-calice. Now, a few more words on the legal theory, because I asked the Minister - that is traceable in the tapestry - on the Committee on Budgets or I stressed these arguments on the Committee on Budgets, and the Minister says to me: It is not written anywhere in the legislation that it would have to be based on the law. And I've already responded as a lawyer right there, that we must also come from the purpose, meaning of the law. This is described by tons of different decisions, in particular the Supreme Administrative Court. My honored colleague, Professor Válková, nods her head in agreement, for which I thank you, by your means, Mr Vice-President. To assess the legality and legitimacy of the proposed procedure, I repeat again, it is necessary to come from the purpose pursued by the processing of the State Budget Act as a key act. The inclusion of this new tax in the corporate tax item - I am now talking about the tax on extraordinary profits - on the revenue side of the state budget therefore has no support in the current legislation of the Czech Republic, and on this point represents a fundamental contradiction with the standardised and so far used process of preparing the state budget and with the legislation laying down budgetary rules. I totally stand by that. Plus, I repeat again that the five-calice itself has not yet been able to agree on the final form of the submitted, for me an illegal proposal. Even some members of the government's five-calice are not able to take any position that they will defend, and thus, basically, they are changing the basic criteria every day - the basic criteria, we are not talking about any nuances - the basic political criteria of the emerging tax in the form of their parliamentary proposals. The fact that the 85 billion tax is read in the form of a second reading amendment really is unprecedented. It would be funny if it were part of some good Czech comedy, unfortunately not. There is really no new part of the sun trilogy, hay with the Minister of Finance, Mr Michálek, Vice-President Richterová, Minister Jurečka, Vice-President TOP 09 and Chairman of the TOP 09, Mr Jakob. Let us remember what happened here yesterday about Mr Michálek's amendment - and now I ask everyone to pay attention here because I am talking about the second amendment by Mr Michálek to Mr Stanjura's amendment, it is very simple that, and not the first amendment by Mr Michálek to Mr Stanjura's amendment. We all got it. If we weren't sitting here, I believe we don't know what we're talking about. This proposal, and neither the first nor the second, is based on minor adjustments, is absolutely essential. The Member initially called for retroactivity, I think Mr Michálek, a dramatic reduction in the tax rate, a reduction in the cap on the taxable person. Today, the Member, perhaps this time after careful consideration, is simply asking for a reduction in the limit for the body of taxation in the case of banks. However, in order to be sure, in its second proposal, this limit is different from that of the first proposal. Chaos and travesty live. Plus, I'm asking -- now I'm walking away from the extraordinary profits tax -- I had to remember this place when we already have the 85 billion in the state budget revenue -- and I'm going to the next part of the story. I'm still on the revenue side, and I'm asking, where's the proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade? I don't even see the Minister here. Well, for us to have budget discussions, I really don't see a lot of government members here, I guess it's not a priority - it's always been the law of the year for us. And I'm asking, where's the MIT proposal for the other 15 billion to the 100 billion? There are a total of 100 billion costs on the spending side today, and now I've gone a little bit to the spending side. It was income, there's 100, 85 tax on extraordinary profits, 15 tax - or it's not a tax, sorry, it's a ceiling on the price of a European solution, it's supposed to be 15 billion, but I don't know where there's any legislation, when there's no one saw it, nobody's talking about it. [[unintelligible]] Yesterday I read somewhere in public space that it might be within a month, but maybe it was just some misleading article, I don't want to build on it. But here I am waiting for an answer, here I am waiting for an answer, given the legitimacy and legality I was talking about a moment ago. On those 85 billion - I doubt very much, and not only me, but a number of economists, including the Prime Minister's advisor, who called this proposal a pasculi, said this publicly - I doubt that the government will choose it, and it will be its political responsibility and political responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but I ask where there is some basis for legislative for the 15 billion. On the expenditure side, the costs are budgeted in the proposal related to the ceiling, today a total of 100 billion. Originally, when you remember that we were here discussing the carrier - the blank check, as I marked it, the law, and we supported it, the YES movement - which gave the government the authority to issue the government's regulation on energy prices, even if we had a number of amendments that didn't go through, even if I repeat again, we warned the government from February of this year, whether it was the ceiling, but we raised our hand for it, there was 130 billion written there. You remember how I criticized this place, as I said: you have 130 billion on three lines, that's not possible, it's already 100 in the budget. I asked the Minister. I understand the complexity of the emergency situation, which is related to both domestic and international energy crisis solutions just during the time of the state budget submission. I understand it's very difficult, and I don't want to blame you for ever raising your voice at my microphone. I don't want to be personal, I won't name anyone. You said, "Here's the lack of precision on the budget when he was covid." I'm not gonna remind you, I'm not gonna do anything about it - I'm not gonna lick old wounds, as they say, and I'm always looking into the future. So I understand, I understand, that a whole bunch of these things and an estimate of these expenses are speculative to some extent, and I've been through it, just like the expected balance. But it is clear that it is burdened, as the revenue side - and I have not yet finished, I have moved even further, so far I have only discussed the 100 billion - so the expenditure of a large degree of uncertainty, which is enhanced by the lack of the ability of the Minister of Finance, a representative of the government, to present individual probability variations of the development of different scenarios in the event of escalation of the situation or in the event of its calming down. I find that incredible. [[11.30 hours]] Do You Recall? We should have known by then how the virus would behave! We should have known what the virus would do, when it would come, the extent to which it would strike! That's what we've been asked to do: Where are your scripts for the virus? And these are things - I don't want to say it's easy, it's hard - but I think it's much easier with the help of experts to make them predictable, not to burden both sides of the budget with this amount of uncertainty. Does the government realize that it's just putting its head on the chopping block? I could rejoice as an opposition politician, I'm not happy. I'm not happy, and I'm at least terrified of it. But I'm not done with the revenue side. This budget envisages another CZK 50 billion from the Modernization Fund, which lacks not only national legislation, but also the notification of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. My honored colleague, shadow minister of the environment, Mr. Richard Brabec, will fill me in when he performs. I asked you about the budget committee. I got an answer from the minister, he's on the tape, so I'm sure I can tell her here, there's nothing wrong with that. I asked where the national legislation was. Do you remember when I told you it was illegal to put that revenue in there? Okay, well, the 85 billion, no matter what we think, it went through the second reading yesterday. With all the risks of the 15 nothing and the 50? But they're in our budget. They're illegal again. And Richard Brabec, when he talks, because we discussed this with each other, he's a bigger expert than I am, so I asked the minister about the budget committee first. The Minister says: Karel Havlíček's parliamentary proposal could be the carrier. He means Karel Havlíček and Richard Brabec, who has been here for almost a year in the Chamber of Deputies and has been rejected by the government several times. I don't want to make a mockery of it, let everyone make a picture of themselves. I don't understand. My colleague Richard Brabec here will discuss that it wouldn't be enough if this rack just took off. But I'm also just asking, and I asked, and then the minister left the budget committee because he had a meeting, and I asked the Deputy, "Is there any notifications?" The deputy said, "I don't know. Which, of course, he doesn't need to know, he's a Treasury official, and this isn't his business. It's not a criticism of my former colleague. But we have to ask these questions legitimately here. Next question: This government approved Petr Fiala's budget of the State Environmental Fund. So it won't work anymore, or it won't pay if it takes 50 billion? I'll leave it to Richard, he's a bigger expert on it, but I say another 50 billion in the vacuum, and they're in the budget. I asked the deputy. He showed it to me in the budget, the minister will confirm it. This means that the deficit presented is 295 billion, and we have heard the Prime Minister's words - I will leave it aside, I will not be poisonous - I would characterize them with one sentence: You will not grieve with a promise. Which is a winged slogan, it wasn't that I wouldn't dare. So he's just not the true deficit of 295 billion. If honest budgetary work had been done, a budget had been honestly drawn up for the sake of legality, legitimacy, in accordance with the law, there would not be 295 billion. Once again, it's a virtual number, just like there was a virtual number of 280 billion. I told you, remember? A piece of paper I said approved the deficit. And then we saw how it developed so that the government would get back to the numbers that the government proposed by Andrej Babiš for 2022. And I wouldn't blame you again. I always said it was just a peacock, the whole issue. And I know there's been a war, I know the numbers are getting worse. But on the other hand, there was a huge amount of revenue that our government didn't have at its disposal when it drew up the budget. So we would definitely, if we said it honestly, we'd figure it's where we were in 2022. And in 2023, it's a piára again, because that Baťa number 295 is actually supposed to act optically as a reduction in the deficit, but it's not true. If we add the revenue, if we could get to the missing money on the expense side, I mentioned SFDI, we'd be at the number of maybe 470 billion. Unfortunately, it's sad, and I think the future, and I'm not happy about it, I'm not happy about it, I'm not happy that the future will show that, unfortunately, my words will come to much of it. Now I'm going to continue spending on the budget. Total expenditure is rising to dizzy CZK 2, 223 billion, so only during the current government is the increase of less than CZK 1,900 billion, already dizzying to even more dizzying CZK 2, 223 billion. That kind of spending is planned by the government, which in the election debate and even in the post-election debate, and I've heard it all the time, somewhere blamed us for spending too much. Now I think we might deserve an apology. I'm not expecting her, I'm just gonna make myself a little public. Moreover, the government - and so the Minister admitted that I should be generous and fair - does not represent any solution to the government, and now I am talking about 2023, still trying to talk about 2023, in 2022 I would not blame it - does not represent any solution, but even in 2024, because the medium-term outlook is part of the budget, but even in the 2025 budget, where it would reduce the structural deficit, the permanent one. This means, on the contrary, increasing it from -2,9% of GDP to -3,1% of GDP in 2023. And I would like to remind you that the CAO coalition has undertaken not to propose tax increases after the election if it participates in the government. Okay, I get it. It's an extraordinary time. It proposes tax increases for those who have achieved great profits through the crisis. But she also promised to save on traffic. We heard the Prime Minister here defending the increase of about 8,000 civil servants in 2023. And now you'll be surprised, I won't blame him. I can only think of the form of déjà vu, how it was blamed on me and our government, how there were individual representatives here, most often the coalition of the SOLU, and they said: Here is an increase of 6,000! And I was standing with the pie, remember? And I said, "Oh, they're teachers, they're soldiers, they're firemen, they're policemen." Those classic officials, on the contrary, we've been reducing them over that period, or they were troops. It's you and it was: No, you raise, swell state, we want a lean state! [[11.40 hours]] We've heard it again, a little bit more gently from the Prime Minister. He already says, these are the teachers, because we're building the kindergartens - no, Prime Minister, through Mrs... I don't really have to go to the Prime Minister's. He's not here, so it doesn't matter anyway. This is not because kindergartens are being built, and this is of course the case, but it is mainly because so-called regional education reform has been introduced. I'm sure our education experts know that. And with that, we were going to modernize education, that there would be fewer pupils in classes, that it would be - I'm not an expert, just when I was negotiating the budget I remember - fewer pupils in languages and so on. And that, of course, meant more teachers. That is why we regularly regularly recruited them each year, and I am glad to see that this continues. You can't keep doing this. So it's not because now under this government it's started to build, in that year the new kindergartens, schools haven't built, they are built permanently thanks to the various programs introduced under our government, but of course it has to do with this reform. And the fact that we need to continuously elevate cops, firemen, soldiers, we're not going to convince ourselves of that. So I'm not gonna blame you, I'm not gonna act the way you did, even if you had the exact same arguments. I'll just remind you that you've made a commitment to cut 13 percent of the civil servant, and I think the Prime Minister was talking about it, and he said it's not going at that rate. I get it, I can't really at that rate, I've been there, a couple of times. Some have done more, some have done less, but these are the structural reforms that can't be crossed out. They were just idle promises you had before the election, empty promises. And you must have known by then, because if you hadn't, that would have been a much worse option. I'd consider you completely incompetent. So these are the structural changes - yes, it hurts, it takes courage. It wants to cancel agendas, like when we canceled the real estate tax here with the ODS, so that means a strike, I think, four hundred officials. Yes, those are the structural reforms, without digitalization, without these procedures, you just can't be cut off, you can't cut thousands of officials, because you have to cut off the agenda, and that's the structural reforms. So eight grand, I even read in the budget who it is, and I'm not gonna blame it, I'm not gonna act the same way. If I poke - and my colleagues complement me - the totally irresponsible things, it is necessary to reduce the share of expenditure on research, development and innovation. In 2020, the share was 0.83 percent of GDP, and in 2023 it dropped to 0.67 percent of GDP, and we have a special minister for that. And that's just a small list of bad management decisions that five-wheelers make. It envisages increasing revenue, but completely, completely forgot the promised consolidation of public finances. And I repeat, I wouldn't blame any longer-term trajectory. It won't work by waving a magic wand over the two years it's been promised. He won't. Since the beginning of 2020, our government has been dealing with an unprecedented health crisis, we all remember that, yet our republic came out of it, the economic downturn, the biggest since the 1990s, -5.5 percent of GDP, there is still growth, although very slowing down, to 1.1 percent in 2023, so we came out of the crisis with the lowest unemployment in all countries of the European Union and managed to stabilise the health and economic situation of the Czech Republic. The government debt ratio, even after such unprecedented economic intervention with exogenous shock, reached lower levels than when we took over the Ministry of Finance in 2014, this was 44.4 percent of GDP when we left, so it was 41.9. And again, we've been through this huge crisis. I don't want to remember much more here. I remember those solutions in 2008, 2009, I remember the way the Minister of Finance joined the Ministry of Finance, and the first was the press conference in January, when he showed debt in our government, I think he was showing 800 billion, and I just remind you that there are now 1,200 billion planned by the end of the parliamentary term, and so as I have presented the risks in the budget here, I am afraid that this budget will not be the last budget for 2023. That means I don't believe it's gonna work. Of course, inflation will be very helpful to the government, which she has let go of the chain that she hasn't tried to restrain in any way, so these are the things that bring revenue to the budget, but on the other hand, when I see the huge risks, I don't believe that this is the last budget for 2023. I was wondering if I should suggest, because he deserved the budget to be redesigned. That is, without a doubt, all the considerations and the risks I've mentioned here would have deserved to be reworked. Consciousness of political reality in this House, she realized that this proposal was certainly outvoted and it would only be a political gesture on my part. It would be - I don't want to delay, we've never stalled or framed the budget process, I've been talking for so long now, I'm going to speak for the longest of all the representatives of the YES movement, I suppose, so forgive me as former and shadow finance minister - I'm not going to do it, I've decided not to suggest it, but I've drawn attention to the risks. The Minister of Finance is politically responsible, and this government is responsible for itself, and I say that in no way will I support such a budget for all the reasons that I have said that we will prepare amendments where we will see the most fundamental ones - it will not be about quantity, but about quality - problems. They can't be prepared on the revenue side, that's the Minister's business, and I think somewhere inside they need to know that they're really putting their head on the block with this budget. And that's something that, of course, doesn't bother me, that must bother him and this government. I'm worried about the consequences for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u9	Thank you, the next person with priority rights is me, and I'll ask the President if she can relieve me. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u10	Good morning - still, ladies and gentlemen, now Vice-President Havlíček will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to start by looking back a little and comparing budgets over the last 12 or 13 years. It will be very short, but I think it is good to look at the past and at the same time see how they will evolve towards the next years. I cannot start any other way than the global financial crisis, 2009 until 2014, when the sum of the state budget deficit was CZK 749 billion. Let us be objective, two years of this was the global financial crisis, where this was understandable, but then gross domestic product was already growing. At the same time, however, it must be said - and this is again to the detriment - that although there was a global financial crisis, there was virtually no support for entrepreneurs at the time, with minor exceptions. At that time the government was handed over, debt was around 43 percent, and between 2015 and 2019, in the next five years, the sum of the state budget deficit was at negative zero, exactly -32 billion. Debt has fallen to 29 percent, which was undoubtedly very good. Again, be objective, it was definitely partly due to the growth of gross domestic product. [[11.50 hours]] Covido years came and the deficit in those two years reached -786 billion. I say the sum in both years. The reasons, I think, are quite obvious. It was the biggest crisis in decades. In 2022, the deficit was about the same, or it would turn out the way we planned. There's been a big discussion here, I'm not going back to it, about 375 billion. What's more important is how it's going to look, and of course there's a big exclamation point here. In the coming years, if I count the year 2022, or if I take the four-year period of government, we get to a plus minus 1, 265 billion. I understand it's preliminary so far, but I'm based on Treasury figures, and that's very warning. On the other hand, it is a fact that the debt of the Czech Republic is still very good. In addition to the 29 percent, which has indeed been a record in the last 15 years, we have given the government a lower level than debt in 2014, at 41.9 percent, which was around 43 percent to the European Union. On this I illustrate that the state of public finances was good and, in principle, it is still good, although it is impossible not to see that it is not the fourth best, but the sixth best, which was at the end of the year. Now, if I have the right information, we are in the eighth best place or the eighth in the European Union. Why do I say that? Yes, there have been extremely demanding covido years and there are also very difficult years of energy crisis. We managed to cope, even with the deficits, and I stand by the fact that it was the right expenses, and you remember how we fought about it in the House, so I stand by it because we maintained the business situation. We have supported 700 000 entrepreneurs, especially businessmen and small and medium-sized companies, we have kept entrepreneurs alive, and when we even look at the number of entrepreneurs, they have increased by 50,000 in the covido period. So they have been growing since 2014, but the covid time has not had a negative effect on this, which I consider to be a very good result. We didn't throw businessmen overboard. We maintained social reconciliation because employment remained at one of the best jobs or locations in Europe, even number one, which was 3,5 percent. What I consider to be extremely important and undoubtedly had an impact on the fact that we had to let go of the budget with a little blood was an increase in investment up to 190 billion, with gros playing into the investment in transport. At the beginning of 2020, the budget was over 80 billion and we ended the year at 120 billion. We have supported health care in a fundamental way, we have debted hospitals, and if we had not done so, the health sector is no doubt collapsing today. And I am glad that we have managed to manage our relatively high objectives in the field of research, development and innovation, because we have maintained the path to added value, and I am personally convinced that this is the only way to maintain stability not only for public finances in the future, but also for maintaining the prosperity of the Czech Republic. The data for 2021 were published yesterday, I mean the Czech Statistical Office, and they are really very, very good. We managed to achieve 2 percent of the total expenditure against gross domestic product. Not only has it never been historically, but the total amount is 121 billion. Of course there are entrepreneurs, we are among the top 10 in the European Union. We joined the innovation leaders, and that was the covidu despite. In 2022, a number of these activities, activities and more or less, therefore, the state budget expenditure activities were partially slowed down, the support of entrepreneurs stopped completely, and it only started at the end of the year. Those are the first warning signals, and I'll get there at the end of my performance. Now let's focus on the year 2023, and this is the balance of 295 billion crowns, which I do not fundamentally criticize. I have made it clear here that even in the covide era we had a balance, we were able to explain it and it is quite obvious that we too would have to manage a high balance at this extraordinary time. What I'm blaming is that we're coloring grass green in a whole series of items. There are obviously tricks in the area of spending, and I will get there. I have a large question mark on income, not in the sense that we have some uncertainty as to how income will develop. This can be understood - and frankly, it was also in our country - that we do not know how an energetic crisis will develop. But I can't mention that some of our income is clearly not covered by the law, and it's not in the billions of dollars we had, and you were scolding us for it, probably right, today it's in the tens of billions of crowns, and it's not possible to pass by waving your hand. He should have confessed the deficit higher, and then when those laws reached, they should have gone the other way. What I blame more - these are rather technical issues that will probably not affect the overall balance - and that is underestimating the situation in 2022, and I am very much behind it so far in addressing the energy crisis. If, in time, as we suggested, from March, April, and maybe May, we start dealing with energy problems by dealing with manufacturers, and at that time we set them prices, we would avoid the fact that the cropping that eventually came will cost us so many resources. To put it simply, we made too much money not only in 2022, but logically by selling electricity to 2023, as well as in 2023, and that is what is happening today. I am convinced that anti-inflationary measures have started to take place late, and if we do not now take the view that inflation is helping us in the budget, it is undoubtedly not helping us in inflation spending again and, of course, making the general comfort of both the population and the companies worse. From my point of view, ČEZ's dividends were not dealt with in time, especially now I mean undivided profits from previous years, even lent to ČEZ, and so did I not make any major activity in the sense of buying ČEZ shares, I mean minority shareholders. All of this will gradually follow us, and I am convinced that the budget mantra that we chose in 2022, however I understood it before the beginning of 2022, however I understood it as an election competition, so I did not understand it since the spring of 2022, when it was obvious that we were going into a lot of trouble, which was caused by a number of factors, especially war, but, in any case, budgeting and its deficit in the finals meant that we were pouring out the baby with the bathtub, and that will be coming up in the coming years. Let's go specifically to income. I want to be objective and say what I think is positive, but so do what I think is negative. I certainly consider it positive that the Modernization Fund of CZK 50 billion will be activated at this time. I would not be afraid, Minister, to go further, and I think you have some space there, although I understand that the money is going gradually, but if we look at the perspective of the Modernization Fund, it was plus minus 150 billion crowns until 2027 and it looks like about 500 billion crowns. This is due to the high price of emission allowances. To put it simply, what are we going to do with the extra 350 billion crowns? I don't take the arguments of those who claim that it's money that goes to modernizing energy and that we have to use it this way. There, let's use what we planned, the 150 billion, and we might as well throw in a little bit more, but not the whole amount. At this point, it's right that it's coming out of this and that it's going to be used to support, whether it's households or companies, so I think it's a positive move. I'm negative about the fact that it's still not in the legal form, and if we went ahead with our proposal, which I've been presenting here for maybe a year, in vain, we could have had that view today, I mean, the income, based on the law, and I wouldn't be criticizing it here right now. But I'm saying again, that's technology. On the other hand, in my income I consider it negative that, in my opinion, it is still not working sufficiently with the resources we have in ČEZ. I note that the undistributed profit by the end of last year was at a level of plus minus 150 billion, in this year ČEZ will most likely generate around 150 billion operating profit before depreciation. This is a large enough amount when I add it to the previous one, which should give us higher comfort in terms of what we take from ČEZ than we plan. I know we have much more planned there than in 2020, 2021 and 2021 respectively in 2022, that's okay, but I believe that there is a larger space, and we should have a tougher one and we should be more consistent with ČEZ. We should not accept that ČEZ does not have enough cash at the moment to be precise, it has balance-sheet resources, but it has been allocated to the stock exchange, which I fully understand, that cannot be blamed for CEZ, but as the right shareholder, we should push to withdraw money from ČEZ. In other words, for ČEZ to borrow on the market, not to lend to him today. So, in my opinion, this is too strict a policy towards ČEZ and we should be more consistent about this. [[Not enough?]] And I am not saying this from CEZ's influence or company, I think it is a company that manages well, and I say this in the sense that we should take advantage of it, that it manages well, and work more actively with those resources in favour of the state budget. [[12.00 hours]] As far as expenses are concerned. I think it's positive that we've gone over to the ceiling. I don't want to go back now, what was the way to the ceiling, that at the end of August we strictly rejected it, eventually it came to this, and it's a good thing that next year we're counting on the funds that will be allocated precisely for the benefit of the ceiling. Of course, I can't say B, and that's that the ceiling is too high to account for how much electricity we can produce, and given that we have missed the time since March, April of this year, when we have allowed producers to sell electricity for next year, and now it is extremely complicated to work in. It's not logically planned, or the money stays with the producers. And there's one thing I want to be positive about. It is impossible not to know that the trend that we have set in terms of investment expenditure continues. We have raised them quite fundamentally over the last four or five years, from 80 billion to 190 billion, in particular the expenditure associated with transport constructions. And it's a good thing -- and I'm assessing this positively -- that this is what's going on. And if there are more than 200 billion, there's nothing negative to say about it, on the contrary, it's the right way. I have another problem there, and I will touch it shortly, and that is for transport, when I do not criticize the Ministry of Transport's budget, the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, at 151 billion, on the contrary. I think this budget is good. I criticise the sources from which this budget is covered, in other words, that the total investment we have in the budget is not covered by the budget, or we have taken advantage of the trick that I am about to get to. What I consider to be a negative and to some extent a threat. Minister, I believe that the support of entrepreneurs for the next year, given how the energy situation is developing, is insufficient, all the more so, if I take it that for larger companies, when we allocated or you allocated CZK 30 billion over the so-called Temporary Framework, which we approved recently here in the House, then you claimed that it was money that would still go in 2022. I want to believe that the larger part will go, even if we all suspect that it will go through by 2023, but whether it's so much or not, the amount for 2023 is low, and I believe that this will catch up with us because it is not possible to survive this crisis with the resources that we have allocated to entrepreneurs at the moment. Another area in which I am critical in the context of expenditure is transport expenditure, or cover the estimated budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I'll recap. I am positive for 151 billion on transport construction and repairs and everything associated with it. This is consistent with the trends that we had, and this is largely consistent with the increase in building prices. I'm just saying that we were planning 127 or 131, and then it went down a little bit - I'm not criticizing that in 2022 - and now this is going to be an increase to 151 billion. Apparently, there's no other way than to really put the 151 billion there so we don't stop construction. I don't want to argue over billions now, what's important is that we're down to 30 billion, that's obvious. It's exactly CZK 30.7 billion. And the fact that it is being transferred to the backyard of transport at the moment, to the Ministry of Transport, whether in the form of a change in the law - I note that it is not yet changed about the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and bonds will be used under the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I say again, we do not know to what extent they will be interested in them, we do not know what the interest rates will be at, and the law is not yet changed, and this combines with the credit of the European Investment Bank, so there is really nothing but a budget trick. This was to be included in the budget, this was to be increased by the budget, i.e. by the CZK 30.7 billion. According to the National Budget Board, let me not be the only one criticizing the cabinet is trying to optically improve the deficit in 2023 by partly moving the imbalance between revenue and expenditure to the State Fund for the Development of Transport Infrastructure. And I'll keep going. The National Development Council claims that it cannot be preferred to achieve formally more favourable deficits at the cost of conscious unrealisticity in its content, that it is impossible to ignore the basic rules and principles of budget formation and that this will lead to a weakening of parliamentary control of public finances as well as the loss of credibility of the Czech Republic on international markets. This is not what Havlíček claims, this is what the National Budget Board claims. You criticized us that we often look at the National Budget Council as someone who merely criticizes and that we should follow its recommendations more closely, so now I just read what the National Budget Board recommends to you. The National Budget Board makes it clear that the reduction in the balance of 30.7 billion is only an optical reduction, not to mention the threat - and I deliberately say - of the risk of increasing the cost of government debt. Yes, you're right that we don't know the price of the European Investment Bank yet, and maybe it will be on favourable terms, but in truth, we don't even know the price of the bonds, actually, I don't think it's the most important for how much the loan will eventually be if the whole place is dealt with by credit. It's a basically nonsystemic thing, and I can't imagine we'd be dealing with it at other resorts. I see the Secretary of Defense here - imagine, Secretary of Defense, that you would need investment to buy some defense equipment in the order of tens of billions of crowns, and that it would be dealt with by agreeing, you would need it in your budget, but the military would have to take credit for it, and, of course, at some point in time, it would have to pay everything back, including interest. I can't imagine you accepting it that way. It is exactly the same with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, when the Minister of Industry and Trade would come up with the logic that he needs resources to bail out coal mining, for example, which must be bailed out, there is nothing else to do, and it would be solved by taking credit for it. We can't be dealing with this in the future with these steps. Either we have to admit it to the budget, or we can't build a budget like that, or maybe it has to go down. The problem that arises is not at the interest rate. The problem that's going to happen is that it's going to fall in the years to come at the Department of Transport, and it's going to have to pay this off. He'll have to pay interest, he'll have to pay the principal, of course. What does that even mean? That in future years, when budgets are hard to put together, and let's not live in illusions that it will be significantly better than this year, it will be difficult, it will be tense and there will be a struggle for every billion, so at that point it will have to be paid back and, of course, it will suffer from transport infrastructure, it will simply be given less resources. That's quite clear. Of course, I understand that it is also possible to finance from external sources, but then it must be a bit systemal. System solutions are needed PPP projects. Finally, we used the PPP project on the Strakonice motorway and it worked out, but it is properly competitive. It even turned out a little better than building it from the resources of the Road and Motorway Directorate. Above all, the PPP project is so-called "no worries" for the next twenty-five or thirty years, because it doesn't have to worry about it - repair, maintenance, everything related to it. That's a completely different kind of project. I can also imagine in some extreme variant that European Investment Bank funds will be used, but they will be used for long-term financing really projects such as corridor lines, maybe high-speed lines, but then it must have some parameters. And these parameters are about planning a budget perspective for, like, ten years, and I'm going to say how much I'm going to use from national sources, how much I'm going to use from European sources, how much I'm going to take from different taxes, fees, and so on. We all know how to compose the transport budget. I will include in this how much percentage of PPP projects will be doing for me, and I will take this as a commitment, and I can put in some project funding using, for example, the National Development Fund, for example, the European Investment Bank. But I miss all of this. [[12.10 hours]] Hand on your heart, we all know how we do it and why we do it. We're doing this because we've got a 30-billion-dollar hole in there, and we've already created that 30-billion-dollar hole in June of this year. In June this year it was underestimated when it was not negotiated with the Ministry of Finance, the result being that the Ministry of Finance prepared a budget of 94 billion, they were threatened by the Ministry of Transport because they found that they would need significantly more than 150 billion crowns, and at that moment we had a 57-billion-dollar bambouch. He was clear, and now it's been handled over the summer. You know, Minister of Transport, that we had a sharper discussion about this at the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, when I told you it was hard to unpack the 57 billion crowns. In fact, I don't blame the Treasury Secretary here. Not that I want to defend myself extremely, but the fact is, where is 60 billion crowns to be found when it has not been discussed, or 57 billion crowns? And the Minister of Finance said to me, "Wait, Havlíček, you'll see in October, we'll try to make up for it in some way." And in part, he did it to make me fair. About 26 to 27 billion occurred, which was probably the maximum possible at the time, but the fact is, we're down to 30 more. So let's go - I don't know where it's going, the European Investment Bank - we'll borrow for it. I think you know very well what I'm talking about. I am convinced that you know that it is not systemic, that it is simply sticking a hole and that it can be a precedent for the future. So much for expenses. I'm almost done, but I'm gonna go back to what's troubling me the most. That's not even the 295 billion this year - I'm saying it's not 295, but it's 325 billion with the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, but I don't want to be nasty anymore - I'm more worried about the balance in the years to come. And we all have to see that it's not well, it's a mess. If we set the sum by making it 1, 265 billion, and maybe a little bit more, a little less, we can't just sleep with it right now. And let's see what we can do about it. There's an emergency, I agree. It's war, he was a covid. The situation is almost critical, but the problem that I perceive is that we will not be able to influence the expenditure in the future. You can see for yourself, Minister, how difficult it is to work with. All those promises that were, how you'd solve it quickly, even though we told you it was at the time of the covid, that it was complicated, so you had a solution for it. You can see it's not easy at all. Yes, now I don't want to talk about how this year's going to go the same way and you guys saved something, on the other hand, you're going to have a higher income, and it just went plus minus the same thing, and believe me, if we weren't there, it wouldn't have been quite far from what happened to you in that current year, I mean, it's still 2022. But where will we be saving up next time? After all, we all know that the political situation will push us into every government, that it will eventually realise the spending plus minus as it is. And we can talk about the fact that there might be billions of units somewhere, in a better case, low tens of billions, but I don't quite believe that. It's just that you find it's not quite easy to make promises and manage the expenses. I don't think there's going to be any big revolution, that's my personal opinion. Maybe I'll be wrong, and then I'd like to apologize to you if you cut off the expenses in the years to come, quite brilliantly, as maybe some sharp right-wing economists would like. They themselves wouldn't have had it at all easy. And that's why I started with the 2009-2013 budget, when the great critic, the then Minister of Finance, today, is brazenly saying on social networks, how would he have geniusly dealt with it - well, that he didn't deal with it at the time when it was here? Again, it was over 700 billion back then, the balance, and it did not support the entrepreneurs in 2008 and 2009 at all. So no glory, Mr. former finance minister Kalousek. So then we have to rely on income. Okay, we have income either in a natural way, which means we're going to grow a gross domestic product - I'm just asking, what are we going to grow a gross domestic product? We're lucky. I say deliberately we do, because it is quite possible that those governments will change in the coming years, even this is very likely, but that happiness is such a Pyrrhův victory, because what we are going to lie to ourselves, consumption will only be driven by inflation and price growth. After all, we feel intuitively that it's not good, because the prices are high, so it's true when we convert it into over GDP consumption, it's going to grow. Okay, we shouldn't settle for that. But we can just say that it is likely that it will save this government with regard to the debt of GDP growth, which will be due to price growth, that is, inflation. The problem is that we should grow elsewhere, even this I consider unhealthy. We should be growing investmentally, and now tell me where we're going to grow. Firms? Firms are in uncertainty, and the first thing a company that's in doubt about energy prices is that it stops investing. The vast majority of medium-sized and larger companies dampen investment. Medium-sized firms do not invest, among other things, because interest rates are high. And the same thing we can flip over to households, because households are in a situation at this point where few people are going to take a mortgage from 7 to 8 percent, that's perfectly logical, so even in the following year to two, you can't assume an investment boom. It's going to hold a little bit, and here I'm going to evaluate positively that you have over 200 billion crowns there, which is good, and so we did it at that time covid, so we're going to lower it a little bit, but we're going to feel intuitively that it's probably not right for a gross domestic product to be built on inflation and the cost of the state to invest, but thank God for that, that's good. Well, then we've got exports left, and that's a big unknown. It's not just about exports, Mr. Secretary. We all know it's about net exports, and I'm kind of worried here because what's making our export balance worse? What makes our imports logically worse, and where are the imports crucial? Where are we in dysbalance as thunder? It's China. And let's just answer, "Do we raise exports to China?" I dare say not. I don't want to go into politics at all in terms of why yes, why not, but in any case the 500 billion, let's sign them, they're going to get worse, which means we're going to import more from China than we are going to export. And then we have a second problem that's less reclining. Do you know who we are heavily dependent on today in imports, where the Czech Republic jumped from the tenth place, I mean the country that brings us here, from the tenth place to the fourth place? It's Russia. Yes, we are importing from Russia in a four-fold high financial volume today. It was worth 100 billion, now it's somewhere to 400 billion crowns a year. It's due, of course, to commodities and so on, but again, there's a huge imbalance here, the more likely we won't bring virtually anything to Russia. Only these two countries make us almost a trillion. What am I saying? So the view in net exports, which is going positive into our GDP, is not a glory. So what are we going to lean on in the next few years in terms of income? I don't know exactly. I dare say it's gonna be very difficult and we're not gonna get away with it. There's one way, and that's the end of it, and that's a way based on added value. Then there would be only one possible way, and that's raising taxes. Yes, I'm not sure if your five-calice is going to do it, now you've raised taxes here, let's admit it's a war emergency, but as far as tax increases go, your roads probably won't lead there, actually ours wouldn't lead there, so we're already on another possible option, and that's adding value. There's nothing else you can think of. And we increase the added value by what? Well, that we support research, development, innovation, that we overcome the fact that we suffer for the next 3 to 4 years and in the next 5 to 7 years it will positively shift into added value, logically into income. This is the way of Scandinavian, this is the way of the Netherlands, this is the way of Switzerland, which we set in 2017 by our strategy of the Earth for the future, thanks to which we have actually systematically started to manage the transition to higher added value. That's interrupted today, let's just say. R&D expenditure, as the Prime Minister rightly said here, will be billions higher, I mean now national ones. Well, that's a face-to-face. A real view when I look at what we don't need, but what is absolutely necessary to go to the GAČR, to the TAČR, to the Academy of Sciences and so on - we know all those chapters, I have done it for a long time - so really loses 4 to 5 billion crowns, because of course their costs are increasing. Their energy costs are rising, and so on, that is, we, even if we bid a billion, are actually slowing down research, development and innovation at the moment, that is reality. So I'm just asking, what are we going to put the added value on in those years to come? I believe that we have nothing to lean on it and that building a knowledge-based country, on technologies, on research, on development at this time is a thing of the past. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u12	Before I give the floor to the next logged in, there were several apologies, so I will load them: Koten Radek apologizes within 12 hours for work reasons, malý Taťána apologizes from 14:00 for health reasons, Pražák David from 17:00 to the end of the meeting day for family reasons, vlček Lukáš from 12:30 apologizes for health reasons and Minister Vít Rakušan from 9.40 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. President Okamura is now in favour and followed by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a government draft state budget for 2023. The debates in recent days have sufficiently revealed all the weaknesses of the Fialův Government's proposed budget for next year. Not only SPD members and the entire opposition, but also renowned economists, and even representatives of the government coalition, have said irregularities and errors. The National Budget Board identified both the revenue estimate and the expected balance of the state budget as highly speculative. In the words of the layman, part of what the ministers and Prime Minister Petr Fiala from the ODS threw on paper, on both sides of the budget, is simply blind fire from the side. In line with the National Budget Council, I remind the government that democratic, legal and legitimate governance is inherently linked to a transparent budgetary process and a rational fiscal policy. It is necessary to respect a number of principles and procedures, which are not always directly enshrined in one of the relevant laws, but their need is tested by the experience of a number of developed countries. Like colleagues from other parties, as well as the National Budget Council of the Government and dozens of economists, I logically believe that the expected revenues of the state budget should only be calculated on the basis of applicable laws. The Government's proposal envisages revenue from energy producers' contributions and taxes on extraordinary profits, where there is no legal basis for either of these titles and there are no specific parameters. That's what we saw here yesterday, when the government coalition is arguing until now, which proposal will actually be the final government proposal. Moreover, the budget brings a record deficit and it is its expansionary structure. It is a budget that increases the state's structural expenditure. For example, the budget envisages the growth of about 7 000 people in the public sector. The state already has an extremely rampant bureaucracy, and the worst part is that the vast majority of ordinary officials can't handle the pressure of work. The solution is not an oversized apparatus, but a simplification of all processes - fewer papers, stamps and confirmations. We still have the duplicate absurdities of the type of income and expense confirmation that the businessman has to hand over to the social services company, the health insurance company, and at the same time this information within the tax return is processed by the tax office. In practice, therefore, three officials process identical data of the same person. Of course, the ideal model would be a unified collection point or offices connected with the financial office, one person or company and one office and one paper, something that we have been talking about for at least 20 years. But all the current and current governments of Petr Fiala have failed in this. If governments do not reorganize government, then debates on individual items are pointless. We know that under the incompetent Minister Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, employees, for example, are overloaded at the employment office, unable to keep up the work and also working for a beggar's salary. And I wish them had a much higher salary. There is money for decent salaries in the budget, but the government would have to cut red tape and make government more efficient in all areas and reduce unnecessary spending. I'll get to them. I remind you of this here from the opposition in fact every year and nothing has changed anywhere under the existing governments. Even the budget presented now shows no trend that would lead to improvement, but the opposite. Instead of reducing the state's controls and bullying, ministers report that it will also increase in areas that were previously politically unthinkable, such as the management of the Censor's office, which Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan plans for the STAN movement. The chairman of the STAN movement also announced the need, and here I quote, "to build sufficient defence structures against demonstration organizers," the end of the quote from the Ministry of Interior material under the leadership of Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement. It's a quote from the document, the latest document by the Crisis Information Team, the so-called KRIT, which was compiled by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. So once again, what the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan wants to build. He wants to build sufficient defence structures against the organizers of anti-government demonstrations. Minister Rakušan for the STAN movement, from the STAN movement, this is Minister of Government Petr Fiala, this is the five-coal of Pirates, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and ODS, so everyone agrees with this in the government, so there is no activity of one minister for one side, all five parties agree with this. So the Rakušan minister, in the name of Petr Fiala's government, will hire censors and guards to watch that I happen not to read something I can't know, or vice versa, so that I accidentally don't write something inappropriate. It is not democracy, it is the incoming totalitarianism in the administration of Petr Fiala, ODS and for these things they want to spend money on the budget - the government of Petr Fiala - against the citizens of the Czech Republic! The Purple Government, instead of considering the demands of protestors who blame the government for failing to deal with price increases and helping citizens, the Fialův Government intends to build some kind of defensive structure. And what will that be? More troublemakers? Armored cars to tear up demonstrations? And buying a mattress for overcrowded crime? It is not even a bizarre fact for me and millions of citizens that we will still pay for unconstitutional restrictions on human rights from our taxes, and since money is not actually in the budget for this nonsense, the government will do so on debt, and our grandchildren will pay for our censorship and restrictions on freedom! It is clear to us that Fialův's five-wheelers and government MPs are voting this disgraceful budget, the worst budget ever drawn up by the Czech government, but I don't think anyone hopes that someone from the SPD will raise their hand for such a pasquila. We understand that someone here has gone completely insane. But I also see that many politicians from the government bank are beginning to open their eyes and are critical not only of the budget bizarre. I wish all of us more and more brave men who could say to the government: That's enough! But of course, in the finals, all government representatives are holding their mouths and feet, and these crazy things are gonna be supportive. I cannot believe that all members of the government coalition in this House want to go into history as supporters of the worst and most indebted budget in record-breaking times or as those who have destroyed the last traces of democracy in our country. [[12.30 hours]] The further debt of our country caused by the Fialův Government will only bring further increases, and the government of Petr Fiala can lead our country to bankruptcy and collapse. The Purple Government promised an investigation and budgetary responsibility before the elections, but it proposes another budget deficit of CZK 295 billion for the next year, for 2023, and in its four-year budgetary perspective, the Fialův Government wants to owe the Czech Republic a total of CZK 1.2 trillion. This can, of course, cause the situation that the Czech Republic is basically going through a Greek scenario, and it may no longer be necessary for your government to have adequate access to healthcare, it may not be for adequate basic social services for citizens. Of course, it also threatens not to be for dignified pensions. This is despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance itself states in its materials that it expects only VAT and income taxes on natural persons and legal persons by CZK 216.6 billion higher income than in 2022, so record revenues are recorded, the government has record revenues and is squeezing Czech citizens. You're smashing them to shreds, you're squeezing them out of the last thing they've got. At the same time, you record debt to the Czech Republic and move it to financial bankruptcy. These figures clearly show how enormously and for no reason the government increases budget expenditure year on year. In the proposed state budget, the cost of operating the state debt is also rising by leap up to nearly CZK 70 billion. For this proposal, the government is also criticized by its own National Budget Board, not only because of the massive increase in the government's debt, but also because the government is counting on revenue from the extraordinary taxation of energy companies and banks, the so-called windfall tax, which is not yet enshrined in the laws. The planned amount of the deficit can therefore be described as speculative. Let's see what renowned economists have to say about your budget. Cyrrus Vít Hradil's chief economist says, quote: "The government has definitely resigned to any attempt at budgetary moderation. She inherited public finances in a terrible state, but partly by her own action, and decided to pass them on in a terrible state." End of quote. Here I would remind you that the SPD was also an opposition party during the last parliamentary term, we were not part of the government. So there's talk here, in this quote, not just about Petr Fiala's government, but also about the government of Andrej Babiš. Let's go to a second quote from a renowned economist. The economist Lukáš Kovanda comments on your draft budget: "After about ten months of his reign, it becomes increasingly evident that the Fialův Cabinet has resigned from the promised crucial cutting of budget expenditure and, at the same time, the search for savings. " According to him, the draft budget for next year with a deficit of CZK 295 billion does not indicate an attempt to restore public finances. Not only are you not showing an effort to restore public finances, but you are making really incredibly difficult financing and the budget of the Czech Republic at all. I took two specific examples here. The government of Petr Fiala decided last week on Wednesday - and you agreed to the government completely arbitraryly - that you would borrow CZK 10 billion at the expense of the citizens of the Czech Republic to help Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. The Czech Government simply prefers Ukraine's interests to the interests of its own country and its own citizens. This loan - that means that you agreed last week on Wednesday to the government that you will borrow 10 billion to donate 10 billion to Ukrajinec - so this loan increases our state debt and will cost the Czech Republic over 0.5 billion a year only on interest! You hear me well. So far, the Fialův Government has spent CZK 16.9 billion in support of Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic, so the government does not solve the price increases that crush Czech citizens and companies, but literally spend billions on Ukrajina and Ukrajinec. To that, of course, to that amount, let's add about 4 billion you sent there on weapons, so it's already over 20 billion crowns from the state budget. I say for us that it is totally unacceptable for us that you borrow CZK 10 billion for 0.5 billion per year interest to send them to Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. So again, I say, you don't give a damn about Czech citizens, you don't give a damn about Czech companies, but you owe Ukrajinec your debt, you borrow on debt completely unscrutablely and shamelessly and you owe all the citizens of the Czech Republic, with millions of Czech citizens with no money due to your incompetent government, due to expensive energy, and thousands of companies are having problems, failing or releasing employees. So look at the budgetary direction you're leading the Czech Republic. Let's go to the second particular example, because in my opinion, Fialův's five-wheeler, ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 have gone completely insane. At the request of the Minister and Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš, you want to create a new large state office for nearly CZK 1 billion with hundreds of new officials. The Office is to be called the Digital and Information Agency - DIA is the abbreviation - and it is to deal with digitization, although there are already units for digitization at ministries. The number of new officials is to be twice the number of existing departments, which is also criticized by the unions. Are Prime Minister Fiala of ODS and Minister Bartoš of Pirates normal? At a time when citizens and businesses are short of expensive energy, they cost food, millions of our citizens, and thousands of companies have financial problems, and the government doesn't solve any of this, the government increases the state's bureaucratic apparatus and sets up a billion-dollar office to leave a monument behind. At the same time, the government is indebting our Republic in the state budget only for this year by almost 400 billion extra per year, and for next year you want to owe the Czech Republic an additional 295 billion extra. There is only one thing to say: resignation! I would add one more thing: why are you pushing the office, the new office, for a billion crowns of citizens' money, instead of helping citizens with expensive energy, helping companies? Because, according to the information I'm hearing, this is a problem by the way of the Pirate Party, because both the pirát failed in municipal elections and many of its parties, members of the Pirates Party and its exponents, lost paid seats in municipalities and cities. Because they flunked the election, they lost a number of paid jobs, so the Pirates' party is creating intra-party pressure on Ivan Bartoš, because of course they don't want to look for a job, they've gotten used to the comfortable crust from public money, and now, of course, they're pushing them to want Ivan Bartoš, the pirát, by the way, Petr Fiala's government, to put them on the public tit again. That's why there's pressure on the office, the new digitization agency, so that they can just stab and suck these failed exponents of the Pirates to the public money lines. I think this is a really crazy situation, because, as you know, you guys have made a hard statement here that you'll be able to have a new unlimited number of political representatives in the ministries. The government of Petr Fiala has voted that expert deputys, experts, have been removed, and you have also introduced an unlimited number of political deputies, which the minister can choose to each other by snapping his finger. So far, it has been limited to two political deputy ministers. Because as there are a lot of you in the government's five-calice, there's so much hunger in the public troughs and after they suck on those gay ruts so that they can really grunt in there completely empty, so basically, one law after another, you just suck off the state budget and squawk the state budget completely to the pulp. So that's the point of this office, that's what you're doing here. [[12.40 hours]] Now, of course, the Czech Television Act is supposed to be here next week. It means, you know, it's not enough to just shave the republic, shave the money that the citizens here pay, shave it completely to the skin. You still want to control Czech TV politically. You want to choose only councillors who will be under government five-calice to turn Czech television into totalitarian television, which will only proclaim your government views because your preferences are falling, and you want to abuse the licence fees of citizens. That means all-party voters are paying concession fees, and your party has won a minority of electoral votes, sorry, your government five-police has won a minority of electoral votes in the last Houses of elections last October, a year ago, because a million votes fell for parties that didn't get here because they were under 5%, and that was mostly parties with the opposite program than your government five-police. This means that instead of acting democratically and in some way normal, you still want to change your way of voting for the Czech Television Council so that there are only exponents behind the five-police government and that the Czech Television can simply act according to the dictation of topics that proclaim your coalitions, and, of course, to bully and persect them on the basis of activist editors - some are there, not all of them, but some are - to bully opposition parties in fact. These are the editors of Marek Wollner, Nora Fridrichová, Václav Moravec and so on. The SPD movement strongly rejects the budget dilettantism of the Fialův Government, its gambling with public finances and the future of our state. More debt will only bring more upside down, and the Fialův government can, as I said, lead our country to bankruptcy and collapse. This budget does not even include proposals to increase income from foreign companies operating in our country. The SPD proposes taxation of dividends of foreign banks, insurance companies, telecommunications companies. These are hundreds of billions of non-taxed dividends from the Czech Republic. Your proposal does not include the adoption of pension reform ensuring decent pensions. Your proposal does not include a reduction in the state's expenditure by reducing red tape by merging the ministries' agendas, it does not contain restrictions on payments to solar barons, nor does it contain increases in civil servants, the number of civil servants, which, on the contrary, will be a total of 492 000 on the basis of your government proposal by 8 000 more than this year. So we reject this government proposal and prepare a number of amendments to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u14	Thank you. The next person to speak with priority rights is Vice Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u15	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to start by speaking briefly and introduce to you the draft budget of the Ministry of Regional Development for 2023 in the language of numbers, but also in the speech of plans, as we want to deal with the budget in that year. The total expenditure of the Ministry is CZK 22.5 billion in the following year, of which almost 6 billion are state budget expenditures and over 16,5 billion are EU budget expenditures and financial mechanisms. That's on the revenue side then, when you look at that budget, there's over 16,5 billion, which is total revenue. Compared to the approved budget for 2022, there is an overall increase in expenditure for 2023 in matters that this government has set itself as its priority, through the instrument we know, it is those national subsidy programmes which, in addition to the cohesion funds, the IROP and the known instruments of Europe, we are actually developing a policy for the development of our regions, cities, municipalities, but also structurally affected areas. Overall, the Ministry of Regional Development will therefore call for calls and enter into new commitments in favour of beneficiaries as well as from medium-term perspective funds 2024. I would perhaps explain - not all previous governments with medium-term prospects worked well. The money that is in them is the money that must be available in a given year, and because the medium-term outlook has its merits and should not be zeroed in the next government's budget, but should be held there as planned by the budget, as well as the things that are competing and committed now and whose financial implementation will then be in the following years, have an imprint in the medium term, which makes available to the Ministry for Local Development in the matter of budgeting national programmes an additional 3.1 billion crowns in national programmes. I consider this to be very important, because it is the national subsidy programmes that are crucial for many cities and municipalities to implement the necessary projects, whether it concerns, for example, equipment within the meaning of educational institutions or repairing communications of the lowest class, which may not be remembered by large projects, or are under, say, individual cities. They are essential to me - and I believe that everyone perceives this subject as well as the problems that we have dealt with here at the last House or the previous House on the matter of more money in the structure of school equipment - programs that support housing. In this area, once again, the financing mechanism, but also the acceleration of construction, is one of our government's priorities, and even here the Ministry of Regional Development will finance this area in its budget, by using both national titles and the State Investment Support Fund, available for SFPI for 2023 is CZK 800 million and in the medium term another billion to address available housing through loans or subsidies. We are working on MMR to be able to involve other financial instruments in this scheme, because the availability of housing and the financing of construction is essential. That is why we are also working with the National Development Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and already at a meeting on European programmes, which, for example, aim to equip and repair schools in terms of extension of perhaps technical classrooms, we already have a mechanism where the success of the applicant in the given subsidy title is a condition - only one condition - for possible financing using some financial instrument, which is available to the National Development Bank at the moment. In connection with the IROP, it may be possible to allocate up to 5 billion in this way. So housing support is not only a direct construction of flats, but it is also a prerequisite for building whole buildings on the territory - I am talking about the preparation of land, technical infrastructure and, say, things about... outside the construction itself, we also have a chapter that releases resources for those - I will use the foreign word - brownfields. At the same time, we are working to promote the objective of digitising municipal plans and a uniform standard. As we approach the part of Geoportal, where there will be individual map layers, we want to intensify the support for the municipalities to translate the outputs from their spatial planning into that standard. Perhaps the most significant item of total expenditure is funding for subsidies co-financed by EU funds amounting to nearly CZK 18 billion. The largest part of these funds - there is then CZK 15.3 billion - is the IROP programme, from which the MMR will primarily support health infrastructure, integrated rescue system, second-class roads, eGovernment and others. The individual challenges are being launched and running gradually. I would like to brief you on what the budget appropriations will look like within the MMR budget and how they will be used. I would perhaps just briefly mention, because even some of my previous speakers have touched on this issue here, spending that comes from various sources in the following year in the area of digitalisation and digital transformation. We, as we negotiate at the level of government, additional funds for individual digital projects - those overdemands that are based on the Digital Czech Strategy - have already managed to spread these things significantly better than we did. When I was standing here at the beginning of the year and we were talking about a budget amendment, I was saying that the total amount of money in digitization could be, and now I was saying, according to the SAO, about 15 billion, according to the report and adding up all the costs that can be classified as IT, another number came up. [[12.50 hours]] When I look at the structure of individual projects, including negotiations, the total amount of money that goes to IT, according to the budget draft 2023, is over all departments of CZK 18.5 billion. I would perhaps mention important other sources, where we are talking about the involvement of the National Recovery Plan with the IROP, the IROP 1.9 billion, the National Recovery Plan 5.4 billion, from other sources 1.8. What I think is important, and it was also the subject of previous negotiations during the previous government, is the separation of operations and costs for modernisation or for some upgrade. I would perhaps mention a significant part of the value of CZK 300 million, which is precisely remembered in the budget for the restoration of basic registers, which in the previous term, when we talked about it with Minister Hamáček, was a terrible problem to release money to the core of Czech digitization, basic registers that provide data and services precisely part of the entire eGovernment, so in addition to the standard operating expenses of the administration of basic registers, there is 796 million. It's also the 300 million needed for a project that's already running, and that's hardware support, or technological upgrade of registries to work properly. Here he mentioned - I think it was Mr Okamura's previous speaker - the debate about the Digital Agency. When we talk about the budget and the cost of digitization, the transformation project has a high demand towards the state budget in 2023 about CZK 140 or 150 million, with the potential that, for example, the well-sold contract immediately returns cost savings for both the competition itself and the realization. Using the component that we already have at national level, good connection to central registers, we will immediately save money worth even more tens of millions. I would therefore not have built it into optics to compare it with the fact that it is a waste or an increase in bureaucracy. It is a more efficient digitalisation management and we are moving in two levels below the cost of operating and implementing the entire eGovernment in 2023, with the savings, but also better implementation of the projects, of course, already manifesting themselves in the run-up of the Digital and Information Agency. So much for me in the introduction to the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development and at the same time a brief summary on the issues of eGovernment and digitalisation, which is realized in the gesture of individual ministries, individual ministries, but I wanted to give some comprehensive insight into the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u16	Thank you. Now, because President Fiala is not present, Minister Černochová is with priority rights and will be followed by Minister Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to sum up the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2023. The proposal has a significantly increasing trend compared to the previous period. The budget of expenditure for 2023 is CZK 111.8 billion, corresponding to 1,5 percent of GDP. In line with the Government's programme statement, the growing trend in defence expenditure continues in the medium term, with expenditure of CZK 130 billion planned for 2024 and 1,7 % for 2025 and 1,9 % in 2025, i.e. the share of GDP. With the support of the government, strong prerequisites are created to fulfil our international commitments to coalition partners, but also to themselves, because you hear this as a mantra at virtually every meeting of the House - it is necessary to finally upgrade the Army of the Czech Republic properly. In the following period, therefore, the main task of the Ministry of Defence's Department of Modernization remains, where financing is envisaged not only for long-term upcoming modernization projects approved by the conceptual documents of the resort, but also for investments carried out on the basis of the Government's decision to accelerate the acquisition of the necessary military material, so-called urgent purchases, in response to a significantly aggravated security situation in Ukraine. The budget submitted and the medium-term outlook is designed as a significant investment when investment expenditure amounts to CZK 35,2 per cent of the total budget of the chapter for 2023, which amounts to CZK 39,3 billion. Of this amount almost 90 percent is planned in favour of the Army of the Czech Republic. Strongly progressive investment growth continues in the medium term, with CZK 52.8 billion allocated for 2024 and CZK 68.1 billion allocated for 2025. Personal management expenditure for 2023 is budgeted at 41.6 billion. These funds will be used to implement the recruitment of military and service personnel in accordance with the concept of the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic 2030. Here a year-on-year increase in the limit of the number of professional soldiers by 1,100 and the limit of staff in employment by 100 people each year and the planned valorisation of the salary requirements of both soldiers and pensions. Here I would just like to remind you that in our strategic documents, we have a goal that we should have 30,000 members of the military in 2030, out of which we should have 10,000 members of the active reserve in excess of the 30,000. We really have a lot to catch up on. I would like to mention here, because often our government is just criticized for increasing the number of civil servants, these are precisely the civil servants mentioned in the reporters' articles. Yes, they are also professional soldiers, yes, they are members of an active backup that our government must increase in numbers, because it is in the strategic documents approved by the previous governments, and those strategic documents apply to us. And here, colleagues who have been active soldiers and served in the military know that at the moment when another number of soldiers is accepted, that this means, of course, another strain on other things, whether they are equipment, armament components, or it is the logistics of receiving these people. You've actually got it from KVV to medical facilities where you have to run these people through medical checks, background checks. You have to put these people in uniforms, you have to feed them, so in fact, all of this triggers another need for other people that you have to accept. We can't accept 3,000 soldiers without additional staff. So I wanted to emphasise this because I consider it important in the debates and in the criticism of our government that we are increasing the number of employees here. We do not increase the number of employees because we would like to raise some number of officials. At the Ministry of Defence, we are really increasing the number of employees only in connection with the recruitment of new soldiers, members plus members of active backup and binding staff who must ensure this. [[13.00 hours]] Current service security expenditure is provided at a minimum operational level so that resources can aim primarily for investment. Expenditure related to the energy crisis is covered. Of course, it was also a big challenge for us here, because if you can imagine how much real estate and real estate an army has, what kind of property it looks like and how hard it is in terms of some energy savings to look for there. Yet we have succeeded and behaved responsibly, as have other resorts. It can therefore be concluded that the budget of the Ministry of Defence chapter is drawn up in such a way as to ensure that all defence tasks are carried out. And let me thank my colleagues from the government coalition from this place, my fellow ministers, perhaps even some opponents who support the budget. Indeed, it was not easy for Minister Stanjura to look for funds to actually be able to meet the demands of all the ministers we had on him, and I very much appreciate that as Secretary of Defense, and increasing the budget is our government priority, so this priority has also been reflected in the budget plan for 2023. This is very important to our country. It's important to the military, it's important to our defenses. So thank you to all of you who will support this raising of funds into our defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u18	Thank you, and now Minister Kupka will speak with priority rights. By the time he gets to the counter, I'm just going to announce that, according to the agreement from Gremia, there is no pause today, but at 13.30 there is a fixed voting point, so by 14.30 we will have space for this choice, and thus also for some basic needs, refreshments and so on. The Minister has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at least a brief word on what the budget of the Czech Republic brings in the chapter Transport. The most important thing - every budget is the clearest expression about what government's real priorities are, what the real priorities are for the management of the municipality or the region. In this respect, the budget is the clearest evidence of what everyone really has in mind in terms of priorities. We said at the beginning that even in these difficult times the Czech government will invest and a clear answer is an increase in the investment budget of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure to record CZK 150.9 billion. This is the sum that is most clear about where the Czech Republic will go even during this difficult economic time, so that further economic growth can be strengthened. That's the key thing. In addition, there are other important priorities, such as ensuring significant support for public transport. In this respect, the government is planning to strengthen the money for discount compensation next year, as there are still important support instruments for public transport preference. In this respect, we are counting on next year's 5 billion crowns. We are also counting on the higher amount to be aimed at securing a basic public transport service, both in the case of regional transport, where the State will contribute again higher than the previous years - CZK 3 608 000 000, as well as in the area of long-distance transport, which is financed directly by the Ministry of Transport, where the state aid increases from less than CZK 6 billion to more than CZK 7 billion. Support for regions is also another important step towards strengthening investment. The existing support of CZK 4 billion is increasing to CZK 6 billion. And I'm going to mention two more important priority areas, and that's digitizing the agenda. You know that in this respect we have already adopted several specific amendments to the laws this year, which will mean saving unnecessary administrative costs on both the state side and on the people's side, but at the same time we are bringing news in the form of new digitised agendas. Before the end of this year we will make the Transport Portal operational, we will expect a significant expansion of digital services next year and we will also support this in the law. Finally, like every year, BESIP is an important item, road safety, which also constitutes one of the important priorities of our activities. And I will mention, at the end of the basic priorities, the basic overview, the important thing that, despite difficult times, we retain funding for the space program, to support companies that are active in the field of innovation, which bring important research activities and development activities in this very unique area. Let us now take a closer look at the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, and I will also allow myself to respond here to several complaints from the Vice-President of the House of Karel Havlíček, who, as I will subsequently supplement, are uncalled for and must be clearly rejected. First, as I mentioned, we are moving into a unique record number of CZK 150.9 billion. At the same time, I note that it is an item that covers all the constructions that are underway so that we do not have to stop them, and we are also counting on starting a whole series of necessary constructions, whether it is a key section of the D11 motorway or other sections of the D35 motorway. The section of the D11 motorway is the one that will follow the Polish S3 motorway, which will be led to the Czech border in two years, and we will be delayed if the construction starts next year, with two years' distance we will follow directly to the Polish infrastructure. I could name other important events. In the case of railway infrastructure, the completion of the modernisation of key sections of the main corridors, whether it is the node of Pardubice, or, for example, the section Brandýs nad Orlicí, Ústí nad Orlicí, but we are counting of course other new projects of the modernization of the line Karlštejn-Beroun and so on. So once again, I stress that if we failed to bring CZK 150.9 billion into the budget, it would mean that we would have to stop the buildings and not run those that are really waiting for a long time or to which we are bound by elementary responsibility towards our neighbours. Once again, I will repeat the figures for the development of the investment part of the budget. This year 97 billion, in the next year 104 billion crowns. An important item is also a non-investment part, which counts in particular on funds for repair and maintenance. It was also the subject of criticism that this year we reduced funds in the adjusted budget, and the good news is that, following intensive debate with investor organisations, we were able to increase back during the year, this year as well as the means of repair and maintenance on both roads, motorways and railroads. In the next year, the increase in the means of repair and maintenance, i.e. the so-called operational capacity, represents a shift from this year's 15 billion to 18 billion crowns, and in the case of motorways and roads, it is an amount of CZK 15,5 billion compared to this year's 13.5 billion, also key items to maintain the road and rail networks, and also to remove slow rides, to remove speed falls, and to remove a number of important problems which at this time mean limiting both capacity and speed on the Czech railway. I stress the record budget that will ensure the continuation of the buildings that are underway and the launch of those that are long awaited. In this regard, I can actually express my satisfaction that we hold continuity, that what started in both the previous period and in the case of many transport constructions twenty and thirty years ago, that is reality, will succeed. In this regard, I welcome the fact that the opposition did not engage in criticism. [[13.10 hours]] What I do not understand is that it criticises that we are partly trying to find the funds in new financial instruments. And here it must be said that even before the crisis broke out in Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport launched preparation of other PPP projects, both on the D35 motorway and on the railway in case of modernisation of the fourth corridor of the section Nemanice-Ševětín or also part of the important railway connection of the centre of Prague, the airport Václav Havel and Kladno. So these are PPP projects, they work. The important thing is that more will be prepared in the future. Even if we had a magic ring, we couldn't do it in less time, and we couldn't get any of those PPP projects ready for next year, and no doubt Karel Havlíček knows that very well. But we started preparing right away with the beginning of our term of office, and the preparation is ongoing. At the same time, it is important to say that PPP projects mean, in fact, only the use of long money, which the state will pay in the same way, albeit in a different form. They will pay them in additional years' fees for managing the relevant section, but they also include, of course, investment funds hidden in the following period of use of the infrastructure. In principle, this does not differ from other financial instruments such as bonds or EIB credit. In this case, too, it is an instrument for investing, ensuring a short-term investment task and spreading funding over time, which we are undoubtedly in agreement on. And we know safely what awaits us, that we will have to look for other instruments to finance the construction of high-speed lines, and we will present to the Chamber of Deputies both in a short period of amendment to the Act on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, as well as in the next few days we will be signing a memorandum on the loan with the European Investment Bank, and what we are going to do is compare all these instruments to each other and decide on the most appropriate combination so that the burden of the State is as small as possible. By the way, that's how those countries have been able to invest in the long run. I don't understand the remorse in this regard. Instead of saying yes, we've actually worked on the previous governments. Well, they couldn't finish everything, but those who came after us have full support in that when we say investments in the first place or in one of the first places, so that it will also project into concrete steps. So we, in order to prove the mix, the combination of tools, to choose the most advantageous option for the state, are going the way that governments have not yet gone. And it's certainly appropriate, because it's going to be waiting for us in the future, and we're going to decide in the future exactly how the whole package of investment funds is going to be composed and how we can really support it from individual forms. There was also a specific instrument, the National Development Fund. I don't want to use that here for the overwhelming criticism of the previous government that started it, but it didn't actually use it with a single crown in favour of investment. By the way, in response to the current situation, together with negotiations with the Ministry of Finance on how to secure the necessary funds, we immediately opened up a debate with banks about what it would mean and how it would be possible to secure funding from this fund. Answer? Well, it would be possible, but it would mean the credit money the state would have to pay back anyway. This is how the National Development Fund is designed. In addition, we are putting together a number of other steps that are essential to cope with the energy crisis. That's why there's gonna be drafts, which is why we have to take the windfall tax route. This, of course, also affects what we are then able to use in terms of other forms of funding. But, of course, we will continue to negotiate with banks and other entities, because we simply need this for further funding. Why don't I understand the criticism that we're going this way? Well, this also has to do with the fact that, in the medium term, we had CZK 97 billion prepared for next year in the decision of the previous government. Well, if we couldn't change that, that means we're going to stop construction, that we're going to jeopardize other plans of the Czech Republic. And, yes, under the circumstances, we have limited options, but I do not fully understand the moment we inherited the view of 97 billion, the criticism that is coming into us for finding and really finding solutions for investing in transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic, unless, in the end, Karel Havlíček means it as overwhelming self-criticism. Then I'd understand, otherwise it's difficult. And to get to the finals, what's hidden in the draft state budget. A responsible proposal, which means securing the necessary investments, a commitment for the government that we will bring the combination of various financial instruments to the finals, and we will do so before voting on the state budget at third reading, we will also have the initial proposals from the European Investment Bank and an idea of what the bonds might look like and how we will also put them together. Of course, where we go are state guarantees. Without them, the tools wouldn't make any sense. We would not be able to obtain the right conditions to compete with other forms. And I am convinced that, as a result of the combination for the Czech Republic, not only because it will provide the necessary investment funds, but also because it will be well composed in terms of the cost of providing money, the debt service, the total interest payment, will be the most appropriate possible format, the most appropriate possible combination and the choice for the future. And it is also quite clear that we are going to use other forms in the future. When we opened negotiations with the European Investment Bank, I must say that they mentioned directly that other countries were already ahead of us in previous years and that Poland, admired for how many kilometers of motorways could be built, is using these instruments very intensively, because the European Investment Bank is able to offer a product that is significantly better in competition with other products, but will ensure really effective financing. So much basic presentation of the budget in the Transport chapter, with emphasis on basic priorities - investment, investment, both in railways and roads and motorways, as well as in waterways, provision of public transport funds, including the provision of means to compensate for discounts as well as further development of public transport in both remote and regional transport, support for regions in increasing the contribution to the second and third class roads in the range of 6 billion compared to this year's four, providing funds for digitisation of agendas and saving administration, and finally ensuring resources and solid facilities for road safety, for a number of important programs and also for the space programme, for the Czech Republic to be able to join the family of technologically most developed countries in the world. Thank you so much for your attention and your support for the budget at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u20	Thank you. Before I give the floor to another logged in, which is with priority rights, Minister Rakušan, I shall read the apologies received. kott Josef apologizes from 16 o'clock for work reasons, Nacher Patrik apologises from 13.30 to 17.30 also for work reasons and Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes from 13 to 16 o'clock for work reasons. I also advise for the Minister and for all of us that an election point is firmly placed at 13.30 and I will eventually have to interrupt his speech. But now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u21	Good afternoon, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, let me introduce briefly only the basic figures that appear in the budget as a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. Of course, then I will be prepared to answer some questions that will surely come in the debate, now just a very brief recapitulation. For the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, revenues of CZK 13 467 000 000 and expenses of 99 733 000 000 are proposed for the budget of 2023. It is necessary to realise that this is a significant increase in funds, and the government is meeting one of its priorities, which is given, of course, by a long-term strategy, but also by the idea of the current security situation, and of course, the government of the Czech Republic as a whole is aware of all the challenges that await us in internal security. By the way, this is also evidenced by an increase in funds in the order of billions during this year's budget increase by the Ministry of the Interior. Even this year, our government has not forgotten the rewards for firefighters, police officers, whether voluntary or state-owned, who intervened in Høensk. We have also not forgotten the evaluation of the components of the integrated rescue system during an emergency period, and we are equally responsible for internal security for next year. In the structure of expenditure, the largest logical item is the salary and related expenditure, amounting to CZK 56 billion, pension insurance benefits and other social benefits of CZK 16 billion. The remaining funds of around 27 billion are logically intended for current expenditure, for expenditure in the area of programming finance, research, development and innovation. A substantial part of the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior is logically intended to ensure the operation, the activities of the Security Corps of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps, it is a circa 66 percent of the total expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. As part of the preparation of the draft budget for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for the years 2024 and 2025, the budget of the chapter was overall strengthened by CZK 13.6 billion. Without EU funds, it is CZK 11 billion, i.e. coming directly from the Czech budget. The largest volume of more than 4 billion will be 10 per cent from January 2023 and employees from September 2022. A total of 2 billion increased the budget of the security forces in the area of investment. This amount will also be ensured by strengthening investment subsidies for voluntary fire brigade units of CZK 400 million for the renewal of fire brigade technology, the purchase of police service vehicles, as well as strengthening the construction investments of the corps. Other items that were necessary to strengthen in the budget are investments in very neglected basic registers. In any case, I would like to call for attention here also to the opposition and, let us say, our shared responsibility for the state of the underlying registers unfortunately, I would of course ask for support and not questioning the need for really multi-million-dollar investments in this basic infrastructure for the functioning of our state and the basic assumption for digital transformation to have some real meaning. This simply cannot be built in good condition without basic registers. The Ministry of the Interior itself has taken a number of austerity measures. I would like to report that for 2023 we are reducing the number of officials of the Ministry of the Interior by almost 200 seats. We are reviewing both professional and support agendas, we want to carry out these revisions as quickly as possible, present all changes resulting from them in spring and, of course, generate further savings, especially in the current operating expenditure of the Ministry of the Interior, so that more money is left for investment and more money logically remaining on the salary conditions of police officers, firefighters. We believe that this will be an example of good practice for other ministries, because the Ministry of the Interior, among other things, creates a methodology for the revision of individual ministerial agendas and for other departments. I dare say that even at a time that is not simple in budgetary terms, the government of the Czech Republic as a whole - not with some ministerial perspective, but as a whole - is very responsible for internal security, and I can say with calm conscience that the dignified operation and operation of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps, the Ministry itself, and any agenda that the Ministry of the Interior is in charge of, in this case, in the case of the approval of the budget in its proposed form, is ensured without doubt and without any problems that could happen to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u22	Thank you, too. We are therefore now coming to the proper registration because only President Radim Fiala is registered with priority rights, who is still not present, and now it is Mr Karel Rais. However, I warn him, too, that - and in this case probably it will be time already - I will stop him at 13.30. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u23	Hello, I'm aware. Madam Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Minister, Fellow Members, I would like to make some comments on the budget for 2023, namely Chapter 333, which is the chapter of the Education Department. Let's look at it in general first. With regard to total expenditure on education in relation to GDP in the European Union, an average figure of more than 5% in the European Union countries is reported - 5% of GDP is expected to go towards education. And what about our chapter? Here, when I compare, I think, 14 days ago we had a budget here for 2022, so compared to that budget there was a decline by about 0.03 percentage point again, so it is negligible, but overall, based on the current forecast of GDP from the Ministry of Finance of August 2022, the expenditure of the chapter is estimated to be 3.45 percent, or we are below the level of the European Union. This is relatively one of the lowest state budgets of the Ministry of Education, which has been made by the Czech Government in the last ten years towards the chapter of education. In its programming statement, the government advertises quality improvements while advertising wage stability. I, because there was a discussion last time, took the statement with me, and it says: "We guarantee a high-quality salary for pedagogical workers and keep their salaries at 130 percent of the average gross monthly wage. In addition, we will place ourselves on maintaining the difference in maintaining the 20% share of the over-the-counter pay components and their effective use. [[Emphasis?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u24	I apologize to you, Mr. Ambassador, but the noise here is too much. Everyone is returning to the hall, which is probably okay, but I beg you, colleagues, to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u25	So so much of the government's guarantee of salaries and, of course, the government's aim, according to the statement, is to raise more funds so that public education and school services are in proportion to GDP at least the average level of OECD countries, which is definitely not this year. From what I have said, it is clear that the government is erasing the teachers' honey around their mouths. Achieving the EU average would correspond to 5% and the reality is lower - as I said, not even 3.5 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u26	And now it has come to pass that we are already in time as I have announced, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm sure you will be given a word immediately after we return to this point and you will be able to finish your performance. [[- Thank you.]] Thank you, too. And even the factual remark that is here comes after that. We're going to hand over the meeting's management and get to a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-002-001.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear government, I welcome you and have a good afternoon. At 13.30 we have a fixed point number
