ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 73/2012 Coll., on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and on fluorinated greenhouse gases, as amended (the House Print 75/ - First Reading) On behalf of the Government, Anna Hubáčková, the Minister of the Environment, will state the proposal. I'm going to ask for the peace of mind in the hall and the Minister for the opening word. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. The Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases, as amended. [[Noise in the hall.]] This bill...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you, Madam Secretary, and I'm gonna ask everyone in the O.R. for some peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u4	This bill was submitted last year. He went through a commentary procedure, all the comments were settled, the bill was passed on 25 November 2021 and he was no longer able to be approved and discussed by Parliament. It is now presented in the same version in which it was submitted last year. The aim of the bill is, on the basis of experience gained from the practice of handling regulated substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases, to eliminate certain shortcomings in the legislation in force, which will result in more effective handling of these substances, more efficient performance of state administration and reduction of administration. It is proposed in particular: 1. The time limit for the transmission of controlled substances held for disposal shall be extended. 2. The operation of the disposal and regeneration of fluorinated gases shall be subject to a new permit instead of a certificate. 3. The ban on the handling of disposable containers appearing on the single European market from illegal imports is now amended. 4. The requirement for the form of a customs declaration by an importer of fluorinated gases is adapted so that compliance with the allocated quantitative quotas can be better controlled. 5. The method of issuing certificates necessary for the handling of regulated substances and F-gases is changing in order to simplify and streamline the certification system. 6. Newly, it is distinguished whether the performance of regulated activities will be subject to a certificate issued by an evaluation and certification body or a permit by the Ministry of Environment. 7. It is limited to the content of the information system of certified persons only to the necessary data in order to reduce the administrative burden on the persons concerned. 8. Certain penalty provisions are provided for following a new adjustment of obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u5	I thank the Minister and I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Eva Fialová, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear ministers and Madam Secretary, thank you for the floor. The Minister has presented the basic objectives of this bill, and I would like to introduce you to these objectives so that they can be met, what leads us to this and why this legislation needs to be adopted. As has already been said, this bill is from the last parliamentary term and has been sent to us Members by a new government already 9. 12. 2021. [[16.50 hours]] Now to the very objectives to which we must approach. In this bill, as the Minister has presented, the first reason for extending the deadline for the transfer of controlled substances held for disposal from nine months to twelve, is this currently the number of controlled substances which can still be used, or equipment in operation that contain substances, is already low and constantly decreasing. It is therefore difficult to collect within the legal time limit such quantities of controlled substances as to make disposal economically acceptable for both the bodies required to transmit the substances for disposal and for the person certified to dispose of those substances. For this reason, it is necessary to extend the period, as I mentioned, from nine to twelve months in which controlled substances have to be transferred for disposal or, where appropriate, be disposed of where the person is also a person certified for the disposal of controlled substances. The second objective was - newly subject to the operation of the disposal and regulation of F-gases by permit. Although F-gases are generally permitted, it is necessary to regulate these substances in some way due to their impact on the strengthening of the greenhouse effect. The aim is therefore to introduce regulation of disposal and regulation of F-gases. Regulation of the disposal of F-gases is a response to the conclusions of the 30th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol of November 2018. The third objective was to amend the ban on the use of disposable containers with F-gases. One-off containers have a lower cost compared to authorised re-fillable bottles, therefore there is an increase in the illegal market and the system in this area is failing mainly because of the lack of a legislative storage framework and the resale of cold products imported from third countries outside the quota system. The increase in the prices of refillable bottles is due, in particular, to the timetable for reducing the consumption of F-gases laid down in Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 517/2014, which led to the emergence of a black market with disposable containers or F-gases in disposable containers. Since the placing of F-gases on the market in the EU, where they come mainly through the eastern external borders of the Union, usually takes place on the territory of another state, not in the Czech Republic, it is not possible to impose sanctions on the sellers of disposable bottles under Czech law unless these substances have been placed on the market in the territory of the Czech Republic. The whole system therefore stands for a ban on placing on the market, i.e. enforcement of a ban on the site and the time when a single container first appeared in the EU, which in practice means very low enforcement. Since these bottles have been prohibited from being placed on the market for more than ten years, a general ban on the placing on the market of single bottles with F-gas on the territory of the Czech Republic, together with any further handling of such bottles on the territory of the Czech Republic, should be introduced due to the de facto malfunction of the system in force on the day. The fourth objective is to adjust the requirement for the form of the customs economy of the importer of F-gas so that it can be better controlled by compliance with the allocated quantity of quotas, from the initial 200 is reduced to 100, where it is currently not possible to carry out sufficiently effectively checks on the accuracy of the data provided by importers of F-gas, since there is no clear information in the declaration on the quantities of F-gas imported or whether acceptable quotas are respected, what part of the quota is already exhausted and so on. [[operation]] Maybe it's just manual control that's inefficient in this case. Fifthly, they change the way in which certificates are issued necessary for the handling of controlled substances and F-gases, when evaluation bodies carry out proficiency tests with a specific content of F-gas and controlled substances. The certification body shall then, on the basis of the composition of the proficiency tests, issue a certificate in the field of the handling of controlled substances and F-gases to natural and legal persons. According to current legislation, the certification body is the Ministry of Environment. As such, the Ministry is responsible for issuing certificates to persons who have successfully completed appropriate theoretical and practical examinations with the evaluation body. These persons may subsequently carry out regulated activities in the field of F-gases and controlled substances. Applicants for certification shall carry out a test for evaluation bodies, but the certificate shall be issued by the Ministry as a certification body. The certification itself, however, does not, in fact, require administrative discretion after successful completion of the test. The certificate is the moment when the applicant delivers complete documentation to the Ministry, without further assessment issued. It is therefore proposed to combine the role of the certification body with the activities of the current evaluation body, which explicitly allows legislation in the relevant, directly applicable EU legislation. The minimum test requirements will be newly laid down by implementing legislation in order to ensure the equality of the conditions for successful completion of the test with the different assessment bodies. The sixth objective was to determine whether the performance of the regulated activity would be subject to a certificate issued by the evaluation and certification body, or by a permit by the Ministry of the Environment following the modification referred to in point... the fifth objective is to propose the distribution of the original set of certificates into two separate groups depending on whether or not an administrative discretion takes place in the relevant activity. In the absence of such administrative discretion, the power to issue certificates shall primarily be transferred to evaluation bodies. In the event of administrative discretion, the issue is left to the Ministry of the Environment and formally will be an administrative decision in the form of an authorisation. The seventh objective is to delete the content of the information system of certified persons only for the necessary information, where the current information system of certified persons, which has been issued with a training certificate containing and operating the Ministry of the Environment, now contains data on both certified persons and persons who have been certified and trained. The same conditions apply to both groups for data management, but there is no reason to collect such extensive data on persons with training because it is an enormous volume of data that is not really used and usable. At the same time, there is no legal title for the processing of personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation. The last point is corrected by new penalty provisions, when the wording of the law also requires the addition of a lack of penalty for inappropriate use of fire extinguishers or a halon-containing fire protection system after the date set by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council as a date after which these instruments and systems cannot be operated. At the same time, a penalty should also be added for the decommissioning of these instruments and systems in operation after the so-called conceptual date, together with ensuring their recovery, regeneration, recycling and impairment. In this context, efficacy has been proposed from 1. 7. I would like to point out that this will need to be adjusted and, in the future, to make an amendment to the change in effectiveness. Thank you very much for your attention and then I will join the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u7	Thank you, too. Have a good afternoon. I will add two apologies that came here, namely to Mr Martin Kukla between 14 and 17 o'clock for working reasons, and then also to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. We are in a general debate where I have no further application, which is why I am ending the general debate. [[Mrs Purple is interested in speaking.]] I thought you were at the moment... So we mistransmitted information with the Vice-President, and now I'm... I'm sorry. In the general debate, I am still asking for a speech as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u8	Thank you very much. I didn't want to bother with my speech as rapporteur, because it's only about the law, but I understand that it's probably for a lot of uninteresting law, but just so you know the benefits that the law tells us what it regulates us. Everyone, I'm sure we're all experts of fluorinated greenhouse gases and what they are, so just to give you an idea of what substances we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about in groups, which contain either hydrofluorocarbons or totally fluorinated hydrocarbons, or sulphuric fluoride and other fluorinated greenhouse gases. The list itself is very long and is contained in the regulation itself, but fluorinated greenhouse gases do not have the potential to damage the ozone layer of the country, but they have the so-called global warming potential. The emissions of these substances thus have a negative impact on the country's climate system in terms of its warming. The so-called warming potential is related to the CO2 molecule for which the potential equals 1. Some F-gases have potential up to a thousand times higher than just one CO2 molecule. So this means that if a substance has a global warming potential equal to 1430, that means that one molecule released into the atmosphere has the same effect as 1430 released molecules of CO2. These substances are also chemically relatively stable and persist in the atmosphere even for several decades. F-gases have a number of very good technical characteristics for which they are in practice widely used as replacements for ozone-resistant substances whose use is restricted in the Montreal Protocol and also in EU legislation. Since the 1990s, their consumption has increased, mainly in the field of cooling, air conditioning, heat pumps, pumping, insulation foam, fire protection and so on. Compared to 1990, their consumption in the EU increased by 60 percent, and global consumption also has a significant upward trend. According to the Kyoto Protocol, F-gas emissions are included in the limit for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to be achieved as signatory countries, including the EU, and the EU's top bodies are therefore taking strict measures to meet them. One of these is also a 79 per cent reduction in the consumption of fluorinated greenhouse gases by 2030 compared to the reference period 2009 to 2012. Therefore, market control through the system of allocation of quotas for the production and import of fluorinated greenhouse gases into the EU introduces a regulation of the European Union, further measures are aimed in particular at preventing emissions of these substances by carrying out regular checks on equipment by qualified personnel, recovering these substances from decommissioned installations and establishing the qualifications required for the servicing tasks carried out on the installation. Therefore, please don't all self-destruct at the moment during air conditioning and any other substances - fortunately, we no longer have refrigerators that were full of other substances - but please do. It's a bit paradoxical that we're talking about substances that increase the warming of the country, and so far they're used alone as coolers in our air conditioners, which we all use every day. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-006-006.u9	Thank you. So now I really still see no one in the general debate, which is why I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is a detailed interest in the final words before the debate is opened? No, or a detailed debate is not being held, but there was no motion to reject or return the submitted press, so we will proceed to the vote on the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest that the Guarantee Committee be different from the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies? I don't see anyone, that's why we're going to vote. Once again, I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 17 registered 136 present, for 116, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone else have a motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion? No. In this case, given that no proposal has been made and I do not see anyone reporting with any further procedural proposal, we have no proposals for a vote, and I conclude the discussion of the first reading of this bill. Let's go to the point
