ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u1	69. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the State of Qatar, on the other hand, on air transport /German press 135/ - first reading Please have the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka give the opening statement. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the material presented contains the text of the air agreement negotiated and signed by the representatives of the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Qatar, on the other. The agreement aims to adapt the area of civil aviation between the European Union and Qatar in a uniform manner, as it will replace the relevant provisions of the existing bilateral air agreements, including the one concluded by the Czech Republic with Qatar in 2012. The priority for the European Union in negotiating the text of the Agreement was to establish a clear legal framework for fair competition in a liberalised transport market. By negotiating an agreement, the rules of both parties and the creation of an equal competitive environment with many opportunities for cooperation between air carriers of the Contracting Parties will be significantly aligned. I think I need not tell anyone that Qatar can be a strategic destination for the Czech Republic as well as for many other European countries in the near future. The agreement is in accordance with constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic. Its negotiation does not require changes in the Czech legal order and will not affect state budget expenditure. I would like to ask you to agree with the agreement submitted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, and this is Mr Jiří Kobza. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for the original entropy. I would like to thank the Minister of Transport for putting this point. In our opinion, this is a treaty that will support our industry, our transport, our tourism, and I think it deserves us to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u5	Thank you and I hereby open a general debate to which President Schillerová has signed up. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be positive. You look at me so intently, through... [[Towards the Minister of Transport.]] Actually, I can hire you, I can hire you. [[With laughter.]] [[I'm looking at you, too.]] So, of course, we will support this, so I will start by dropping a stone from your heart, but I would like to say that the relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Qatar in the field of civil aviation are currently regulated by the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar on Air Transport, signed in Doha on 18 January 2012 and entered into force on 2 June 2013. The air traffic is also governed by the subsequent arrangements of the aviation authorities of both parties. The bilateral adjustment is slightly more liberal in the operational area, so some provisions can continue to be used. The most beneficial of the new agreement for the Czech Republic is the harmonisation of rules especially in the field of competition. Direct air link between the Czech Republic and Qatar is provided year-round by the carrier Qatar Airways, who first started regular operation of its freight division in Prague since the summer season 2016. Regular passenger transport on the Doha-Prague line and back began on 21 August 2017. Until the covid-19 pandemic, the capacity on the line was gradually increased. The operation was largely preserved during the pandemic. Qatar Airways is thus an important customer of Prague Airport, which offers passengers many opportunities when travelling especially to Asia or Africa with a transfer in Doha. For political and economic reasons, the European Commission defines the EU's external policy towards important civil aviation partners, including policy towards key countries and regions of the world, which are relevant for the EU aviation industry, and its aim is to be not only the mutual development of air transport, but also the overall improvement of relations with the countries concerned. One concrete project with global partners is the European Commission's intention to negotiate a single or comprehensive agreement with the State of Qatar for the entire EU. Similar agreements have already entered into force with Canada and the United States and are also being prepared with other ASEAN or Oman groups. Unified air agreements may be negotiated by the European Commission only on the basis of a specific mandate given by the EU Council, which is specific to each country. The Agreement aims to adapt the area of civil aviation between the EU and Qatar in a uniform manner by replacing the relevant provisions of the existing bilateral air agreements between the Member States with Qatar. A key area which was the main reason for this agreement is the issue of fair competition. Of course, for all these reasons, which I have just said, the YES movement will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-014-069.u7	I thank the President and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? If no one, that concludes the general debate. And I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in speaking? It does not, nor does the rapporteur. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? If no one else has a proposal, we will proceed to the vote. I've just summoned colleagues from the lobby. So who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the foreign committee? I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 59, entry 140, for 133, against no one. Result: accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I'm ending this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Initiating next point, which is the point
