ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u1	2. Government bill on tax measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops /German press 173/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In response to the last performance. But I said that Andrej Babiš, I didn't say the YES movement. I know when it was, and I come from public sources. As Andrej Babiš says, as he personally called the dozens of Members and persuaded them to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u3	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm bringing you to order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u4	Thank you. I just didn't want to burden other shows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u5	Please state the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u6	Before that, Mr. Vice-President, what was that, last performance?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u7	It was before I opened the point where the individual priority rights were performed. At present, I have opened Section 90. That's all I'm asking you to point out because I asked you to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u8	That's nice, but you should treat everyone the same, which is clearly not happening in this case. But I can handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u10	You've really messed me up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u11	Believe me, it wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u12	Mr Vice-President, please don't come into my conversation. We're not in a dialogue to talk like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u14	So the name is quite nice, the short one that shines on our board - Tax measures. It's about Ukraine. If it weren't for Russia's aggressive war in Ukraine, the bill would have looked a little different. [[17.30 hours]] I would like to remind you that in the last parliamentary term, and this was my colleague's proposal here, Mr Jan Bauer, who increased the value of a donation to natural and legal persons from 10% to 30% of the tax base. If I remember correctly, it was then that the Chamber of Deputies voted unanimously for him. This bill proved to be effective, so even without the war in Ukraine, I would propose an extension of one more year sooner or later. They turn to me with this nonprofit organizations from all areas of public life, that it would be good and that it would help them get private resources. However, we also respond to the huge wave of solidarity shown by Czech citizens as well as Czech companies, Czech non-profit organizations, so that we can help tax it. So the bill actually solves two things. First, income tax and second, administrative charges. For income tax, we deal with two things, first of all, the area of deduction of free transactions from basic tax and then the area where it can be applied. This means extending the range of beneficiaries to the state of Ukraine, its local authorities and persons based or residing in the territory of Ukraine, and defining a new circle to those we have known so far, we are adding a new purpose to the provision, and that is to support Ukraine's defence efforts. At the same time, we allow a taxpayer who is tax resident in Ukraine and an area of income tax exemption to apply such a deduction, where the purpose is once again extended, which means supporting Ukraine's defence efforts. It is proposed that this apply to the tax period of 2022. This is in a nutshell everything with regard to the regulation of the Income Tax Act, that is, the prolongation of the 30 per cent value of the gift for legal and natural persons also for the year 2022, the extension of the purpose that has been so far, as well as the support of Ukraine's defence efforts, and the geographical change that may also concern the state of Ukraine, as I have said, companies, citizens who live, are doing business in Ukraine. And from the point of view of administrative fees, it's a matter that most administrative authorities will come across in managing this large refugee wave. There is a general possibility of forgiveness of administrative fees, with each administrative office itself assessing whether or not to use it. At the same time, it has retroactive effect, that is, if the administration has already done so, it will not be sanctioned or attracted for it. The government assumed that this would not be too controversial, so we suggested that we approve it at first reading. I have a message that the veto will be vetoed. I fully respect that. Then, in the debate, I will propose two possible shortening of the time limits for discussion between first and second readings. First - I have it ahead of time, so maybe the heads of opposition clubs can think about it - first I will suggest a shortening of the deadline so that the second reading can take place in that week in a fortnight, which means I will suggest a reduction of about 10 days so that the committee can discuss it next week. If it's vetoed, I'll suggest a reduction of 30 to 30 as a standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u15	Thank you, Minister, I have noted your proposals. And now I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Michael Kohajda, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u16	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, fellow Members of the Council. I will add to the Minister the maximum that, as he has already said, the House press 173, in particular, regulates the Income Tax Act in three parts of the measure and in the last part of the Act on Administrative Charges. I think that summary is correct, as the Minister has put it here. In the first part, these are measures in the area of deduction of free transactions from the tax base, where we simply increase temporarily from 20 to 30 per cent the maximum from the deductible items together from the taxpayer's tax base. In the second part of the income tax exemption measure, a new income tax exemption for an employee of Ukraine where his employer provided accommodation free of charge to him or a member of his household. And the second part of the new exemption is all the free revenue that has been provided and, on the other hand, accepted to support Ukraine's defence efforts. In the third section on tax expenditure, it is explicitly stipulated that expenditure incurred to obtain, secure and maintain taxable income under the Income Tax Act is also expenditure on free non-cash transactions provided in 2022 for the assistance of Ukraine and its legal and natural persons. The part relating to the Act on Administrative Charges consists of a measure whereby administrative authorities are authorised to waive, at their discretion, the assessment or collection of an administrative fee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u17	Thank you, rapporteur. I would like to ask President Schillerová whether she wants to speak with priority right before the debate is opened, or first when I open the debate? [[President Schiller doesn't want to get off.]] Okay. I, therefore, open a general debate and first register the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I would like to say that - I will not repeat what I said a moment ago when I responded to the Prime Minister's speech - we understand the difficult situation, we have all been living tragedies in Ukraine for several weeks now, when the unprecedented move of the Russian Federation has disrupted the lives of not only 40 million Ukrajinec, but changed the perception of the world of us all. We have made it clear that we are rejecting the military aggression of the Russian Federation, which is why I understand the proposal as made. Finally, we did something similar in terms of covid. In fact, at that time, we also acknowledged gifts that - for a period of one year - reduced the tax base and related to assistance in the covid area. I would like to say that we probably, I would say with almost certainty, will support this proposal, the Yes movement, but we would like it to be discussed in the committees. This means that - and the reason before I bring up the veto, so I would like to say that there is a thing that is new there, because the circle of subjects is expanding to Ukraine. That's all logical, that wouldn't be a problem. It is new that there are not only humanitarian reasons, but in order to support the defence efforts of the state of Ukraine. That's new. We understand, we understand that this is what the situation requires, but we think that we should discuss it, perhaps even improve it in those committees - that is nothing against this proposal at all. Not to mention that I think that even considering that this could only be applied in the tax period of 2022, I do not see any problem. Therefore, pursuant to Article 90 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission has to assess whether the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of two members of the Parliament, the ANO and the SPD movement, I object to the discussion of the submitted press pursuant to § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation And we are ready to work very actively on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u19	Thank you, I'm registering your veto. In that case, it is not possible to negotiate pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Mr Jan Bauer is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are not going to make this worse in those committees, only on the Margo of my previous speaker. [[17.40 hours]] But I would just like to speak briefly because I have been positively appointed here, because I really consider this amendment to be a continuous continuation of my work, especially my colleagues in the former parliamentary club. Indeed, we came up with a so-called donor novel when the covid epidemic peaked in the Czech Republic. It wasn't exactly easy. We had quite a serious debate both at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and on the floor of the Committee on Budgets. But in the end, I must say that I very much appreciated that we were able to agree almost unanimously on the then House of Deputies, and we supported this donor amendment. Its aim certainly was not at the time of the covido to raise donations in some way in the Czech Republic for the benefit of various subjects. We wanted - and I think that this time outside Ukraine is the main objective - simply to maintain the social responsibility of those who support the social area, social services, the cultural sphere or some sporting sphere, small sports clubs somewhere in the villages, so that they do not go away from this long-term support, because perhaps the difficult economic situation does not allow them to do so. For this reason, too, I have had it processed - and I have the information from the Union of Employment Unions - as the amendment has proved to be successful at least until November of last year. And I must say that the perhaps grimer ideas of some of the then members of the budget committee were not fulfilled, who were afraid that someone would spend some money there in this form, that it would not bring the desired effect. I must say that not only my personal experience, the specific data that I have at my disposal here, but also from the Union of Employment Unions, I must say that the objective has been met. It was not a major blow to the state budget, and it really paid off for social, cultural and sports clubs, associations and facilities. I am very pleased that the current Minister of Finance has inspired our work in the last parliamentary term and came up with an extension of this amendment, extended by the things that are currently happening in Ukraine. I am sorry that this will not be done under Section 90, but I believe that in the second and third reading this amendment will eventually be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u21	Thank you, too. The Minister is now claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u22	Thank you. So I will formally make these two proposals in the debate to shorten the deadline. The first one I would like to vote on as the first one to reduce the deadline for committee discussions by 48 days to 12 days. If it wasn't accepted, 30-30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u23	Thank you. I've noted the proposals and I'll put them to a vote. Mr Patrik Nacher is still reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u24	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say how I came first after three and a half hours, that after two years I finally see your faces, that we no longer wear those drapes, so I think it's more pleasant whether we laugh at each other or frown at each other. Yes, and for that award, the Minister of Health, as he applied for it here, we can give him a round of applause. [[Let's hear it. You're welcome.]] So much for an unusual introduction. I'd like to follow up on what's basically been said here. I'm so glad that basically here on this example it turns out that these things can follow up on each other and that it's not what it would sometimes seem rhetorical that the new government is everything that was behind the previous one and that the previous majority approved it, so that they have to dig it all up. Here it follows, however it was in conjunction with the covid, here the 30 percent and the continuation in an increased ratio of 30 percent of the free income exemption applies to a new area that concerns Ukraine. At the same time, I think, given that these are taxes, that they deserve some debate. Personally, I'm going to vote for a short period of 12 days. We'll talk about it at the club, I suppose we'll approve. I don't think there's gonna be another move. The point is whether it's going to be another meeting in 12 days or today. I think, given that it's gonna be a 2022 tax return, he's gonna take the time with him and we're not gonna hold anything up. On the contrary, I actually think that by discussing this and going back here repeatedly, it will be on the budget committee, it will be in the second, third reading, so the more we actually light up on the subject. And maybe by doing that, we can provoke even more help than if we voted for it here today with one vote. By being non-conflict - we all know that when something is non-conflict, basically nobody cares, they move on. This way, it's going to come back here twice, and maybe we'll provoke someone positive, motivate them to join the aid. I have one question for you. Maybe the Minister will tell me that he's completely stupid, I don't know. I've registered a debate like this on the e-mail, I'm not in full detail, so I'm gonna ask you this, so I'm gonna make it sound like a microphone. In what way will it be necessary with gifts that people sent directly to the Ukrainian embassy, whether it belongs there or not? I know I've already caught someone here talking about this in the hallway. It seems to me, given that a number of supporters have been sending money there, or especially there, and it's top three, I'd say, top three institutions that have collected the largest amounts, so I think it might be that the answer should be whether it falls there or not. Please don't think of it as a stupid question, but the question that was raised on the air. Now, if the President will allow me in a certain generosity, one clarification of what the Minister has said here in the previous issue. I'll take 90 seconds, the rest. I've already applied for an interview with the Minister regarding the Sberbank. I do not have the right of priority, so I could not respond, but I have one clarification that would be good for the microphone to be heard so that people are not mystified about the EUR 100,000 and the EUR 200,000, the equivalent of the insured amounts. With those attorneys and notaries, the point is, if they don't report it to the bank, who owns the money, it's even worse than the minister said, because in that case, all the money in that lawyer's account or notary's account is 1000 000. The moment they report it, every client has 100,000, 200,000. The 200,000 we're talking about here, it's addressed in another part of the law, and it's about emergency situations where I would name three or four here. Sale of real estate, therefore it will fall there, because it is usually the sale of real estate, and it is a divorce, it is an inheritance, insurance, but it is also necessary to pay compensation for damage committed by crime, criminal activity. That means, those are the cases, the rest. I'm not gonna take advantage of this generosity here, and I'm gonna interpel, because I think people care. All you have to say is that these people won't affect where the notary and attorney have their accounts. After all, the mayors, the mayors, and the chieftains have a total of about $5 billion, their cities and their regions. And I'm consistent with how I stand up for those lawyers, notaries, so I'm defending them no matter what side they're on. I remind you that Sberbank bought the Austrian Volksbank, so it's not that easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u25	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my colleague Patrik Nacher, through you. Of course, I take it that anyone who is in opposition and can block the right veto § 90 can do so. I appreciate that he said he was going to vote for a 12-day deadline, but I don't quite think what he said here is appropriate, the longer it's going to be discussed, the more attention it attracts, and the greater the motivation of these people to use it. I think the motivation is especially when it comes out in the Collection of Laws. So I just wanted to clarify this and ask you really to vote as a club for as much reduction as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u27	I also thank you for your factual remark. I'll read an apology. Today from 17.30 to the end of the sitting day due to illness, Mrs Lucie Potůčková apologises. [[17.50 hours]] I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Very briefly. I will not respond to Mr Munzar, through you, because it was not the best performance, but I forgive you, it will be together, it will be better when we talk. But what I want to say for the Yes Movement Club is that we will support the shortening of deadlines. I'm gonna brief the club like this, and I believe he'll support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u29	Thank you, too. Please, Member, a proper application for a general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will also briefly comment on the press under discussion. I'm just saying in advance, we're gonna support the reduction to the 12 days. We think that this is not absolutely necessary in Section 90, this is an adjustment to the income tax for the year 2022, which means that it will be up to date somewhere in the year in those returns, so I think we need not quite hurry, but we will really support the deadline for shortening. I acknowledge that the proposal is drawn up as a special law, which means that, indeed, as the period goes by, it will de facto end and there will be no need to make any adjustments subsequently in the Income Tax Act or others, so I think that this is well handled. Well, I'm just gonna make it quick. The proposed changes in income taxes aim at tax support for the charitable activity of taxpayers towards helping Ukraine and its people in the war conflict that is taking place there. The question, of course, is whether this adjustment for 2022 alone will suffice, because no one knows, of course, how long the conflict will be, and at least it can be expected that the economic damage and humanitarian crisis will undoubtedly exceed even in the coming years. The possibility to deduct the value of free transactions from the tax base is proposed in the case of taxpayers of income tax on natural persons who are non-resident tax authorities to extend this option pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the basic Regulation. 9 The Income Tax Act also had tax residents of Ukraine who fulfil the conditions laid down if they demonstrate that taxable income from sources from the Czech Republic accounts for 90 per cent of their taxable income, with the exception of income from which the tax is levied at a discount at a special rate. The proposed changes in income taxes further extend, on the one hand, the scope of the purpose of free transactions and, on the other hand, the scope of the beneficiaries of these free transactions referred to in § 15 para. Article 4 (1) and Article 20 (1) (a) of CRR 8 Income Tax Act. The existing concept of beneficiaries of free transactions and purposes for which deductible free transactions may be provided shall continue to be maintained. According to the current wording of Paragraph 15 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v))))) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))))) (v)))))))))))) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Article 4 (1) and Article 20 (1) (a) of CRR The value of free transactions provided to natural or legal persons whose place of residence or registered office is not situated in the territory of the Czech Republic, a Member State of the European Union or a State On the basis of the proposed provision, it will therefore be possible to deduct from the tax base the value of the free performance granted to both Ukraine and its local authorities and to legal or natural persons whose registered office or residence is situated in the territory of Ukraine, provided that the conditions of the beneficiary and the purpose for which free performance can be deducted from the tax base are fulfilled. It is also proposed, given the seriousness and nature of the conflict of war in Ukraine, to allow the tax base to deduct the value of the free performance provided not only for humanitarian reasons, but also for the purpose of supporting Ukraine's defence efforts, such as the provision of military material, which would, according to the previous wording of Section 15 para. Article 4 (1) and Article 20 (1) (a) of CRR 8 of the Income Tax Act was not possible. In order to support Ukraine's defence efforts, it is possible to grant free performance only to beneficiaries as defined in Section 15 (1) of the Act of Accession. Article 4 (1) and Article 20 (1) (a) of CRR 8 and 12 of the Income Tax Act and the beneficiaries of the newly defined provisions of § 1 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the proposed law. The proposed provision is limited in time due to its purpose and therefore only applies to the free transactions provided during 2022. The maximum value of free transactions, which can be deducted in total from the tax base, was increased from the original 15 per cent of the tax base for taxpayers of personal income tax and 10 per cent of the tax base reduced by items deductible from the tax base for taxpayers of corporate tax to 30 per cent by Act No. 39/2021 Coll. in response to the expected decrease in funding of publicly beneficial organisations mainly from public budgets due to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. This increase was designed as a temporary one for the tax period of 2020 and 2021, in the case of taxpayers of personal income tax whose tax period is always a calendar year and for the tax period ended from 1 March 2020...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down a little bit so that they understand what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Income taxes on natural persons whose tax period is always a calendar year and for the tax period ended from 1 March 2020 to 28 February 2021 in the case of corporation tax payers whose tax period may not always be a calendar year. In view of the fact that the situation associated with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus cannot be considered as finished at present, and in the light of the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, it is proposed to extend the period of increase in the highest value of free transactions, which can be deducted in total from the tax base by one year. The proposed legislation on extending the increase in the maximum value of free performance is one of the steps taken by the Czech Republic to support the charitable efforts of taxpayers who have decided to help Ukraine and its people in the ongoing war conflict in its territory. This increase also applies to the deduction of free transactions in the light of the changes proposed below in connection with the armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. The extension of the maximum value of the deductible free performance to 30 per cent also constitutes one of the measures to ensure multi-source funding, not only from public budgets of publicly beneficial organisations whose enforcement has been committed by the government in its programming declaration, through positive incentives for taxpayers to contribute to the activities of publicly beneficial organisations through the possibility of reducing their resulting tax more significantly. However, the above deduction from the tax base is only possible if a positive tax base is declared and cannot be applied in the event of a tax loss being recognised. Its amount is also limited, while expenditure on such non-paymentable non-payments is not tax-acceptable under the current scheme. However, on the basis of the proposed law, it will be temporarily possible for taxpayers to apply the costs incurred for free non-payments provided in 2022 to assist Ukraine, its local administrative units and legal or natural persons with their registered office or residence in the territory of Ukraine in connection with an armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine as tax deductible expenses, provided that the condition of the purpose to be fulfilled for the purposes of reducing the tax base under Section 20 (2) is fulfilled. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Article. 1 of the Income Tax Act. The proposed adjustment does not limit the persons to whom a free income can be granted as opposed to § 20 para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the Income Tax Act. The above proposed changes in income taxes relate to the taxpayer's income tax in the form of a free performance provider in terms of his ability to deduct the value of the free performance from the tax base or to the deductibility as expenditure. From the point of view of the taxpayer in the position of recipient of free transactions, a change is proposed consisting of the exemption of free income provided in 2022 in order to support Ukraine's defence efforts. This is essentially an extension of the current list of exempt free income, according to which it would be considered in the context of the situation in Ukraine to free only free income resulting from the public collection and free income for humanitarian or charitable purposes. The proposed provision makes it possible to support not only humanitarian but also defence activities in Ukraine through the exemption of such free revenue, while excluding any obligation on providers to deduct tax and tax from such free supply. [[18.00 hours]] In this context, the application of the provisions of Section 6 (1) would also be offered. 9 Income Tax Act, which also exempts personal income tax from social assistance provided by employees by employers up to CZK 500 000 in connection with overcoming extremely difficult conditions for specified reasons, such as environmental or industrial accidents or natural disasters. However, cases of extremely difficult conditions due to the conflict of war are not included in the provision in question and therefore this provision cannot be applied. Paragraph 6 (a) shall apply. 9 The Income Tax Act is a special provision in relation to the provisions of Section 4 of the Income Tax Act, which in its paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) zm) also refers to the provisions of Section 4a of the Income Tax Act in the event that the employer provides similar assistance to workers in the context of overcoming extremely difficult conditions due to the conflict of war in Ukraine. It would therefore be free income from the employee's point of view for a humanitarian or charitable purpose exempted under Section 4a of the Scriptures. (k) Income Tax Act. The proposed legislation on income taxes also responds to a situation where, as a result of the conflict in Ukraine, an influx of Ukrainian residents leaving their state has already begun in the territory of the Czech Republic. These are often cases where Ukrainian residents come to the Czech Republic to see their family members, who are provided with affordable accommodation as employees. From the point of view of the employee, according to § 6 para. 3 The Income Tax Act is an income from dependent activities. If the employer allows not only employees to use this accommodation but also his family members, or provides such accommodation with a new one, it will also be income exempt from income tax in 2022. In addition, the proposed legislation will allow the Administrative Office to refrain from collecting administrative fees from natural persons affected by the consequences of the conflict in Ukraine. This is not a flat-rate waiver from the collection of all administrative fees, but only for those for whom this is the case when assessing the current situation.... [[is suppressed for noise in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u33	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry, but again, I'm asking for your silence. Transfer any discussion to the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u34	Thank you, Mr President. When assessing the current situation and the necessity, the competent administrative authority shall consider it appropriate, while maintaining the basic principles of tax administration and within the framework of the constitutional bonds. At the same time, provision is made for a retrospective refund of fees already collected in Ukraine during the conflict of war. In order to ensure transparency of the administrative office's conduct, in order to avoid, as a result of, and to establish, a public inspection, the administrative authority must notify on its official plate and in a way which allows remote access to which types of administrative fees, or under which conditions the authorisation to waive collection and authorisation to refund administrative fees will be used. So much for a brief summary. As I have already submitted, we do not support the discussion in Section 90, but we will encourage the shortening of the time limits for this to be discussed more quickly, of course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-001-002.u35	Thank you, too. So now I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? I have registered Mr Nacher's application, but I do not see him at present in the hall. Mr. Ambassador, did you sign up for the debate? No, I didn't. Okay. Since I no longer see anyone else reporting to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I want to ask you about any final words. Minister, do you want the final word? You don't want to. Mr. Rapporteur? Mr. rapporteur, do you want the final word? No, okay. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see an application. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. At the same time, I will read what we will be voting on. I will shortly begin voting with the person who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 19, which is signed by 161 Members and Members, for proposal 160. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? At this point, I don't see a suggestion. For this reason, we will continue to move forward, and this is because a proposal was made in the general debate to shorten the time limit for discussion. We have two suggestions here. The first proposal was read by the Minister of Finance to 12 days. Since the plaintiff is proposing this, I suppose he agrees to it, and I'll put it to a direct vote. Initiating the vote and asking, who agrees to shorten the deadline to 12 days? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 20, 162 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 161, against no one. I state that we have reduced the deadline for discussion to 12 days. We have dealt with all the votes under this item. I thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
