ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended / House print 213/ - second reading And the minister responsible for bringing the motion forward is here, so please, Minister Síkela, take the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I'm gonna ask my colleagues to transfer the calls to the foyer so we can have a dignified environment for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce a bill amending the Consumer Protection Act and the Civil Code. The main reason for the processing of the material presented is the proper implementation of Union rules, which brings greater and more effective protection of consumers, for example, when concluding contracts on the telephone, online shopping or against unfair commercial practices and abusive arrangements. The regulations implemented include, in particular, the Directive on better enforcement and modernisation of Union consumer protection legislation, the Directive on the provision of digital content and digital services, the Directive on the sale of goods and the Directive on consumer rights. The time limits for the transposition of these regulations have long passed. Therefore, I very much appreciate that you are taking priority over the proposal and are also seeking its acceptance as soon as possible. Accelerated adoption of the proposal is important not only when fulfilling the Czech Republic's commitments to the European Union, but also to ensure that Czech consumers have the same protection as consumers in other countries where this protection already applies. The envisaged legislation is also important for entrepreneurs because it lays down the same rules for both the national market and cross-border trade. The bill is extensive, you were already familiar with it at first reading. Nevertheless, I would like to introduce you to at least the most important changes that the proposal brings. For example, consumers are newly protected from artificial price increases from discount events. Consumers will also be protected from false reviews. The proposal also brings greater protection when concluding contracts over the phone or during an unsolicited visit. Consumer rights will also be strengthened in the application of complaints. The draft law was directed to the Committee on Economic Affairs as a committee on the Guarantee and Constitutional Law Committee. The meeting of the Economic Committee took place on 22 June and 1 September; the Guarantee Committee recommends that the draft act be approved as amended by the Government proposal. The session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee took place on 22 June and the Committee also recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the draft law. The proposal was also addressed by the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection, where two detailed discussions took place on 21 June and 30 August. Madam Members, given the importance of the proposal - not only because of the expiry of the transposition deadlines but also because of its contribution to consumers - I would like to ask for its support at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee and the press was ordered to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The resolution of these committees was delivered as House prints 213/1 to 3. And I am now asking the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Patrik Nacher, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u4	Madam Vice-President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at second reading. I would sum up and follow up on what the Minister said. This standard is very essential from the point of view of consumer protection. It changes to make it clear, both the Consumer Protection Act and the Civil Code. I wrote it down to remind you at second reading what's going to change there. There are more of these things, and we will go back to that in more detail in the third reading, but there are some things where consumer protection increases, which will improve the position of the weaker one. One group that, for the discounts that we are seeing, it is an obligation to indicate the lowest price at which the product is sold in the last 30 days. We'll discuss the details at the third reading. Banning false reviews - here I answer numerous questions and spectators that it concerns the company's website where the products are sold. There is a possibility to control it in some way, it is not a check of all reviews that run on the Internet. So I tell everyone consumer protection - watch out for reviews even after this law is passed. More rights in unfair business practice. Extension - and this is quite essential - withdrawal from the contract concluded outside the premises from 14 to 30 days. And one of the things that will also affect the amendments is the text confirmation of the contract concluded over the phone. It's just that someone calls you, you say yes by mistake, and the contract's closed. I would like to thank everyone for this standard, because I think this is how the legislative process should take place here. As the rapporteur, who is also dealing with consumer protection outside of my political position here, it is my heart's business, I would like to commend colleagues here who have come up with amendments that have both come to the Ministry of Industry and to me as rapporteur. Now, for example, I am referring to Karel Haas, who has come up with four amendments to clarify these things, which are to say some things more strictly. We are alone over those paragraphs - and we will not burden you here - sitting on the subcommittee for an hour and a half. As a result of the meeting and the subcommittee, the fellow Member, who will present it in brief and more detail in the third reading, changed some things a little bit, because he had it in two amendments, now he will have every change in the individual amendment under individual figures. And then I will tell you that, in one of the amendments, I signed with my colleague as rapporteur, where I have some agreement or disagreement. I dare say that then the result will really be a standard that will help consumers, but at the same time, where we as members of the coalition - the opposition have clearly shown that when it comes to content, we are able to agree on an effective outcome. So I'd like to underline that here at this second reading. Now my colleague Haas is likely to sign up, who will say all the amendments, and I will briefly sum them up for you, and we should end the second reading. And at the third reading, we'd go into some of the guts of each design. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u5	Thank you. Mr Karel Haas, who has been mentioned, is the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so I can ask him, as rapporteur, to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in committee and also to justify possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u6	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I am now acting as rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee on the Parliamentary Press 213, so that my speech will now be brief, then, of course, with the amendments, I am applying to the debate as a standard. Don't let me hold you up. The Constitutional Legal Committee discussed House Press No 213 at its meeting on 22 June this year. He adopted resolution number 40, which he recommends - I say the key conclusion - recommending to the Chamber of Deputies that this important House press be approved. At that time - I am just saying this as a technique, because the constitutionally-legal committee was not a guarantee committee, the guarantee committee is an economic committee - at that time amendments have not yet been tabled, they have then been submitted within the time limit set by the Economic Committee, or the key communication of the constitutionally-legal committee from its meeting on 22 June is a recommendation for the adoption of this important House of the Press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u7	Thank you. I can still see the rapporteur, the one with priority rights can, so please come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u8	Sorry, thank you. I got carried away with the content, and I forgot to say that we discussed it on the Economic Committee without amendments precisely because my colleague Karel Haas withdrew them for the reasons that I explained here, so we recommended that we approve it in the text as it is, with my colleague Karel Haas reading the amendments here at second reading. That's what I was indebted to say, and so I tried to describe the content that I forgot to say this important business on the Economic Committee, and now I'm fixing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u9	Thank you, too. And we can now get into the general debate that I am now opening. And there again is Mr Karel Haas and then Mr Michal Zuna. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u10	Thank you very much for the floor. I now report as an ordinary Member, not as rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee. In agreement with the rapporteur, Mr Patrik Nacher, through Madam President, we agreed that I would be very brief today, so I will not go into the quotes of the details and intestines of the amendments. I'm reporting here, to be heard on the microphone, now at second reading to the three amendments tabled. They are recorded in the system, they were transmitted in writing today under the House documents number 1184, 1186, 1187. If I were to name those amendments, I would begin in the order that I read them. The amendment under number 1184 is an amendment which arose in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance in response to the debate on the subcommittee on consumer protection and the Economic Committee. There was - and really there was a debate - with representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or this amendment should be absolutely indisputable. It concerns the regulation of unsolicited commercial communications. When I say this legal terminus technique into human language, it concerns what conditions and parameters - and this does not change the proposal in any way, it really changes and refines the legal text - under which conditions an entrepreneur can contact consumers with commercial communications. This amendment, I want to underline here, and this is the last sentence to it, does not alter the parameters of consent, explicit consent and so on, the proposed MIT really specifies legal terminology in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and in agreement with the MIT. The amendment under document number 1186 concerns the possibilities under which contracts can be concluded by telephone. Again, a very simplified description, I'll leave the details for the third reading. The proposal, the government proposal and the proposal of the MIT assumed, in principle, when I put it simply, a total ban on the telephone contract between the entrepreneur and the consumer. What we have done, and what I have tried and tried to do - indeed there have been a few negotiations, in conclusion I thank you, because I think that these negotiations have really been hearty and, in principle, continuously going on for the last few days and weeks - we may have just tried to balance better so as not to pour out the baby with the bathtub. On the one hand, an extremely important aspect - I say this with full seriousness - consumer protection as some weaker party in the legal order of the Czech Republic, and to balance important principles such as the constitutional principle of autonomy of will, the freedom of individual human action that we have in the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, the basic principles of the Civil Code. So we were just trying to balance things out better. In principle, by this amendment, I propose two exceptions to the total ban. First, an exception when an entrepreneur contacts consumers, and now I underline both words, on the basis of an explicit request - that is, is not enough for any concurrent, silently imported, and so on, an expression of will - the express request of the consumer himself. I'm gonna bring back a normal human situation. The consumer is in some situation where he cannot counter with an entrepreneur in writing, he is ill in the long term, in some state of care, abroad in the long term, and needs to change a contract. And the second exception is in line with the written opinion, although it was all negative, but with the justification of the MIT's position, when the MIT stated in its opinion that the new regulation should not concern changes to contracts concluded. That is precisely the second exception, that is the amendment under document number 1186. And the last amendment under document number 1187 concerns a very important consumer right, it was mentioned here by the rapporteur as one of the key consumer rights, that is the consumer's right to withdraw from a contract concluded outside business premises. Those are so-called home contracts or long-distance contracts. We don't interfere with that right at all, we don't interfere with the deadlines at all. In principle, what is clarified is that, in respect of the right to withdraw from the contract, it bears the burden of proof - as stated in Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 4 The European Consumer Protection Directive, which we are implementing - bears the burden of proof by the consumer in order to avoid any litigation with an entrepreneur, when he will not be able to demonstrate withdrawal - after all, the European Directive is primarily based on the withdrawal, and this is the core of the European regulation, it should in principle be by means of a model form which is the same in all the Member States of the European Union. What we are actually saying by this amendment is to strengthen the consumer's evidentiary situation in any dispute, so that the consumer does not get into evidence when he bears the burden of proof, so that the withdrawal is made by any clear statement. The content is, of course, arbitrary in such a way that the act of will arises from it, made in the same form or stricter than in which the contract was concluded. This means, in turn translated into human language, if the contract was concluded by e-mail, withdraws calmly by e-mail. If the contract has been concluded in accordance with the law by phone or orally, it shall be withdrawn orally. That means that's the third amendment. For me, a great thank you to colleagues across the parliamentary clubs, as from the opposition, my colleague Patrik Nacher mentioned there. I take it, through Madam President, as one of the largest experts in this House on consumer protection. He is the rapporteur for this press, which means that he has been very intensively dealt with. But I do not want to forget a number of colleagues from other clubs, I would like to name with whom these negotiations were very factual, very detailed: my colleague Rataj, my colleague Zuna, my colleague Vice-President Richterová and so on. So thank you very much, thank you for the debate on the Consumer Protection Sub-Committee on the Economic Committee. I'm not going to go to much detail right now. I suppose that the negotiations on, say, the extent of possible cross-cutting consent by this House over the various amendments will continue now, between second and third reading, and in accordance with my promise to the rapporteur, I am not going into more detail today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. This contribution raised a factual point, so I will ask Mrs Helena Válková, and in the meantime another registered one may be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Very briefly - he took it away from me a little bit by fellow Haas, but that's only good. I also want to draw attention to those who listen to us sometimes and are laymen, not that we are dealing with a problem that, although it looks very legal, has huge factual implications, for example, in Amendment three, I do not know exactly the number, because there is the fact that, in particular, seniors, who are still in my office and desperate for what they have agreed, will finally have an adjustment that they will understand. And when they often use e-mail, they've entered into such a contract, so they'll be able to withdraw by e-mail from the contract. And this should sound unfair, but very understandable to space. I also wanted to thank you for agreeing on this. I don't think we're gonna be giving too much credit to my colleague Nacher, 'cause it might get in his head, but he certainly deserves it for the novel. He's not smiling, I hope I didn't upset him, but I'm not gonna waste my two minutes. I want to say that this is a very good example of cooperation, such as coalition and opposition. And I think we're gonna keep going like this, for example, hoping for a sanction law or something. When it comes to the matter and the law, I think we should let the political fights go. So thank you, Dr. Haas, for complimenting my Member. He was smiling at you when you praised him, when I commended him, so he didn't smile. That's just interesting, but it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u13	Thank you for keeping time. And by the time we get to the counter, Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna load an apology. Mr Jan Lacina apologizes from 12.20 to 14 hours for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u14	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address this point. As has already been said here, the item has been discussed intensively both in the subcommittee and in the committee. However, I do not want to comment on what is in the Government's bill, although, of course, we will support the proposal as such. Rather, I want to put on the microphone what I see as a certain debt from the past, whether the debt that should be part of the new Civil Code or the Consumer Protection Act, namely clarification of the concept of a permanent data carrier. This is a concept that builds on European legislation, on the concept of a permanent carrier, but in Czech legislation the interpretation is not quite clear and obvious. I am talking about this, in particular, because it is used in practice, which is very often referred to. As a specific example, I can mention the conclusion of electronic contracts between two entities, whether with the consumer or also in the B2B segment. And in this area, a vague interpretation could, in the event of any particular interpretation or dispute, cause complications. At the same time, it is clear to me that some rapid amendment and intervention into such a comprehensive standard as the new Civil Code would cause some possible two-wheeled interpretation and complications, such as the market segment that is affected by some particular lex specialis, where, on the contrary, a permanent data carrier is well described. However, I would like to point out that the interpretation of the permanent data carrier should be given by the will of the legislator, as described in the explanatory memorandum of the law. I would like to quote where "the permanent data carriers include, for example, paper, USB devices, CD-roms, DVDs, memory cards or computer hard drives and e-mails" - the end of the quote - with the fact that I consider e-mail to be essential, because if - and in practice it is very common - two entities conclude contracts via third parties electronically, they are authorised by the verification of these contracts via e-mail. So these are my reasons and motives for this to be sounded on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Madam Vice-President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I still want to confirm the words of my previous speakers. Mr Haas, who worked on this for many hours, took a closer look at it, Mr Zuna and Mr Nacher and I discussed it, and I am sure there will still be a meeting on it, detailed on the amendments. It is simply a material that concerns all of us, every consumer in this country, so I just want to confirm what has been said here that we will still be discussing the amendments in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u17	Yes, thank you. Now, with a point of fact, a colleague of Haas will speak. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u18	Thank you very much. I've only got two quick things left. First, to be heard on the record, because I would hate to become another affair in the Czech Republic - I'm not a doctor, that would be the liector they were here 20 years ago. So that's the first thing to be heard on the record. And the other thing, I beg you, is more important and more serious. I wanted to support what my colleague Zuna said, through Mr President, so that at the first opening - and there is a Gesture Ministry - we can return to a permanent data medium at some nearest opening of the Civil Code. A permanent data carrier is indeed a concept used by a number of sectoral and general consumer legislation, yet it is not clearly defined in Czech law. He is simply defined as defined in the general terms of European law, but that we should give - and we are still talking, and I perceive it, about consumer protection, which does not have any qualified legal knowledge - so we should, at some nearest opportunity, also give instructions on what the permanent data carrier means, because it really uses across, whether sectoral or general consumer legislation. That's the second one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u19	I also thank you for keeping time. I don't see anyone registered in the general debate anymore. I'm asking if anyone is reporting from place to general debate? If that is not the case, I am ending the general debate. And I ask the rapporteur and the appellant if they want to take advantage of the final words after the general debate? They don't want to, okay. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. In the context of a detailed debate, Mr Haas is signed up, and I hereby give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u20	Thank you very much. Third time and last time for this House press. Only at a speed - I report to the amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 1184, 1186 and 1187 and I will refer to (a) their written reasoning and (b) the brief reasoning that I made at the previous stage of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u21	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. Do I ask any final words? Yes, the rapporteur Nacher will use it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u22	Yes, thank you. In conclusion, I would just like to thank my colleague Karel Haas, because he actually applied to three amendments, not to the fourth one. Then, in detail, we are ready to take you not only to the vote, but also to the content of the third reading amendments, because we have also agreed on a subcommittee, partly on the Economic Committee, that we will actually consider it our kind of education. Every point, even a change like that, if an entrepreneur contacts someone on the basis of an unsolicited business communication or business - originally as it was there - negotiations, they are all such details that could lead to consumer awareness, so that they know what changes are affecting them. The worst thing that can happen is that we're here to adopt a standard that will help them, but those people won't know about it. That means that even the words that my colleague Karel Haas here spoke of matter very much. So that's what I was just gonna say. There are therefore three amendments loaded at this time. A colleague didn't sign up for one. The other Michal Zuna presented here, but he didn't sign up for it, and one was withdrawn, which was proposed by the Economic Committee, which I still owed you here as information that extended efficiency by six months. That means we have three amendments here, and we're going to do it at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-008-009.u23	Thank you for the final word. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word? He doesn't. I will ask the rapporteur, or rather, will I make sure that there were no proposals to return the law to the guarantee committee, to shorten the time limits, or not to address the guarantee committee's proposal? [[Rapporteur: They did not.]] Therefore, we have nothing to vote on and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. That concludes item 9. According to the approved agenda of the meeting, we will proceed with item number
