ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 206/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, the proposal submitted by the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, who is not here, will probably be represented by colleague Baxa, and I beg him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u3	And I will ask other colleagues, Minister, to be quiet so that you can speak within the quiet hall. I ask my colleagues, if necessary, to transfer their discussions outside the Chamber. Thank you, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I mean, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Government and Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, The Chamber of Deputies shall submit a draft law amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws. The main objective of the bill is to transpose three directives of the European Union into national law. It is EU and Council Directive 2017/2397 of 12 December 2017 on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation and repealing Council Directives 91/672/EEC and 96/50/EC and two other European Commission Directives amending this Directive. [[12.20 hours]] The draft law also takes into account two related directly applicable EU rules. In particular, the draft law responds to a new Union regulation laying down the conditions and procedures for certifying the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of vessels on inland waterways in the EU and for the recognition of such qualifications in the EU Member States. Unlike the previous Union regulation, which has only affected boatmasters, the new regulation also applies to other professional crew members and certain other persons. In view of the close coherence of the competence of the crew members of vessels newly under Union law with the adjustment of the competence of the crew members of the other members under Union law not covered by Union law - vessels, excuse me - the proposed changes also affect non-harmonized, i.e. purely national legislation. However, these changes in excess of the implementation framework mainly consist in moving a substantial part of the adjustment from a sub-legal level to a legal level in its new systematic arrangement and in the precedent of the normative text. The draft law thus brings new harmonised and national requirements for minimum age and professional and health competence of persons who will be a condition for the granting of authorisation for the management or operation of vessels and for the pursuit of other professional activities in inland navigation. In addition, it shall define the documents to be supported by the relevant authorisations and shall specify the procedure for granting the relevant authorisations and for issuing those documents, as well as the procedures for the disposal of knowledge or skills needed for the management or operation of vessels or for the pursuit of professional activities in inland navigation, or for the limitation or termination of the medical fitness of holders of the relevant documents. A register of crew members and experts on board vessels, the administrator of which shall be the State Fair Administration, shall also be included. The scope of the data kept in this register shall be determined by Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your support for the proposed bill amending the law on inland navigation and other related laws. Thank you for the Minister Martin Kupka and for my attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u5	Yes, we also thank you, Minister, and I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jiří Hájek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u6	Good noon, Mr President, fellow Members. I will only allow myself to supplement the Minister in two matters, namely: a government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws, House printing is 206. The proposal is primarily Union, that is what has been said here. This is a transposition of EU Directive 2017/2397 on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation and repealing Council Directives 91/672 EEC and 96/50/EC. The requirements laid down in that directive concern only those waterways of the Czech Republic which are directly linked to the waterways of other EU Member States. Other waterways of the Czech Republic, i.e. not connected to the waterways of other states, such as the Lipno reservoir, the Brno dam and the like, remain in national adaptations. For the introduction, that is all I have to say, if I say so in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg you to take the position behind the rapporteur's table and follow up on the upcoming debate. I am opening a general debate to which a fellow Member has so far entered, Mr Kolovratník, so I will ask Mr Kolovratník to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u8	Good afternoon, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I would like to briefly introduce here the position of our, the position of the club of the ANO movement to this law. I am aware that we certainly do not find it controversial or fundamentally problematic, so it should not be the subject of significant political disputes or debates. I will remind those of you who were here for the first time in this parliamentary term: we are in the last parliamentary term, it was also somewhere at its beginning, in 2018, then 2019, this law was amended, and there was a big and relatively fundamental topic that directed small boat owners - try to imagine, for example, those recreational boats that are moving around the Charles Bridge right here in Prague and so on - so ordered them to introduce such large automatic navigation systems, radars, measuring instruments and communication between ships, and then there was a big, passionate debate to win profits in order to obtain some exceptions, logical for these very small vessels, where the large device could not even physically fit in some cases. And at the end of the day, the deal happened, and it happened. Both the promoter - or the minister representing his colleague, the Minister of Transport - and the rapporteur have said that the content of today's proposal does not address the technical issue, some technical pillar of ship operation, it really concerns the implementation of three European directives. It looks like a small implementation, but it's very extensive. On the other hand, I have not noticed, no one in the field has said that there should be any significant problems or contradictions or unfinished, undisclosed issues. It is therefore the recognition of professional qualifications, the solution of standards of competence and adequate knowledge for practical examinations, and finally the transitional provisions for certificates in third countries, i.e. for international navigation. Typically, this may concern boatmasters who need to be recreationally in Croatia at sea within the EU and so on. So much for the general statement on the overall position. But what I want to mention here is what should be heard publicly in this law is a kind of appeal to colleagues from the coalition, and especially the Ministry of Transport, it is a matter - it is often in the media - which concerns drivers when their licenses expire, the drivers' licenses, and here the amendment, here, the amendment to the law, will affect the captains of those vessels. I can say it's free to describe it as the validity of the licenses on the boat, so this is a thing that needs to be mentioned. You know that the leaders of a small vessel are more and more, it is quite popular activity, nor do I want to use the word pastime and activity, and really among those captains it is possible - and now I don't mean it in any bad way - the typical nature when we leave things at the last minute, and if this law can be discussed by the beginning of July or sometime by the first half of July, which is likely to pass through the legislative process, so here I have to point out that those leaders of small vessels could end up, and according to the information we have available from the Ministry of Transport, it can only apply - watch out - 50,000 invalid licenses. There are really up to 50,000 of them. It's about captains with a release year in 2014 and earlier, because the situation here is a little different than in vehicles. There it is partly possible to arrange it online on the web portal, so it is not so far with the permission to control the ship. [[12.30 hours]] And in this case, as I said, it's about the 50,000 cards - so far, it may also change in the future - but so far it is possible to apply in person, only to the branches of the State Fair Administration. It is a larger number of different older types of licences issued during previous years. Information we have: if the owners submit the application on time, i.e. by the end of June, they will still receive a new card for free.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u9	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. The noise intensity in the hall is so high that I can barely understand you, and I am paying quite careful attention, so I will ask all those who do not want to attend an amendment on inland navigation to transfer their discussions outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I appreciate you listening carefully to my performance, which will be over. So once again, our position on the bill amendment is not negative. It is the implementation of European regulations, quite extensive, but discussed and prepared. The risk we draw attention to or warn of - and it is not actually a legislative matter, it is rather a communication matter in the direction from the Ministry of Transport, say, to the professional and transport public - it is precisely in the sense that for the summer season, which is almost slowly starting, the validity of up to 50,000 certificates for the management of the vessel is imminent, it is not yet possible to do this digitally. Perhaps such a proposal will come from the government coalition one day, and we will certainly support it as opposition. There is a need for people to go personally to the branches of the State Fair Administration in time. That, in a good way, is what we wanted to remind and tell. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u11	Thank you very much. Another one with priority rights was signed up by the Minister of Culture. Minister, you have the floor. This is a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u12	I do not want to speak now in the general debate as Minister of Culture, but representing the petitioner for this bill, because I would like to put forward a proposal to shorten the time limit for the discussion of the bill in the guarantee committee and, if necessary, in other committees for 30 days. Once again for the record, to shorten the time limit for discussing the bill in the guarantee committee and, if necessary, in other committees for 30 days. The reason is similar, in the same case as I told the Minister of Culture about my bill. The transposition period for the implemented directives expired on 17 January 2022, the European Commission launched three infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic. If the implementation of the relevant regulations is not completed soon, financial sanctions are at risk for the Czech Republic, and it is therefore essential to speed up the process of negotiating the draft law in the following legislative process. That's why the proposal to shorten to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-005-016.u13	Thank you, Minister. I note your proposal to shorten this item in the committees for 30 days. We are in the general debate, I want to ask if anyone else is still reporting to the general debate on this point? There is no such person, so I am ending the general debate. Will I ask the final words of the appellant and rapporteur? Not interested. I did not notice any proposal to return or reject the proposal, so we will deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees to... Yes, I'm registering an interest in check-out. I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 137 Members voted in favour of the proposal, 134 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? This is not the case, so we will not even vote on it. Since there has been a proposal to shorten the committee procedure for 30 days, this proposal will be dealt with by voting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 137 Members voted in favour of 80, against 35. The motion was accepted. I therefore conclude that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days. That concludes the discussion of item 16 or its first reading. We will continue with the next item on our agenda, which is the point
