ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended /German press 116/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing this press, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. So I am opening the debate. I don't see anyone logged in. Therefore, if no one signs up for the debate, I will end it and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Press 116, in a shortened hearing." I'll have a vote, please. Those in favor, press the button, raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 14, 188 Members and Members were enrolled, of which 171 were in favour. I am therefore of the opinion that we have adopted the resolution and are still debating the legislative emergency in the shortened negotiations. Opening this point, House Press 116. The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, members and members of the Government, honourable Members and Members. Allow me to introduce the bill, House Press 116. It's Law No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support. The purpose of this bill is to respond to the current situation on the energy market, where we see dynamic developments in the last half of 2021 and at the same time we perceive the estimates... [[It's being silenced for the noise in the room.]] At the same time, we also see estimates by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Energy Regulatory Office, which says that the increase on average in 2022 could be 37 percent in the case of electricity and about 40 percent in the case of gas. As a government, we have decided to respond decisively and clearly to this situation by presenting this amendment, where we adjust the level of normalities for the housing contribution so that we can help people who have negative energy prices. In the bill, we also regulate several other things, namely that we extend the range of possible applicants to people who, for example, are in subleases or have various service burdens, and perhaps a colleague of Mr Kaňkovský will also respond with one more proposal, so that we have the spectrum of people who need to be helped, and that we do not have any so-called white spots on the map. And then there is a third regulation that empowers the government to respond, exceptionally in 2022, to further developments in energy prices, if there is still an increase in the price of electricity or gas, so that the government, by its Government's regulation, can increase the normalities in 2022, so that aid can then be an adequate situation, because today it is difficult to anticipate what the situation will be in the second, third or fourth quarter. So these are the particular parametric changes. [[15.00 hours]] When I say this in the same plane as how we propose aid, we do not want to go the way of the PCB, which will distribute tens of billions of crowns, as discussed here before Christmas last year, when there was talk of one-off VAT forgiveness for 2022 or, for example, a reduction in the green bonus. We do not see this solution as the most appropriate solution because we would have issued or lost between CZK 25 billion and CZK 30 billion per year on the revenue of the state budget, but at the same time we would not be able to deliver really meaningful and significant assistance to those who would be most affected. That is why we are going with this solution, which we see more as a solution to social, addressable, concrete, which is ready to help people who really need help, given the situation and state of the state budget, on the record rate of debt that we see here in the last two years. And even the citizens of the Czech Republic deserve to have a government here that moves responsibly, a government that thinks that one day these debts and interest - literally - will have to be paid. The costs of the solution that I present here are estimated between CZK 2.5 billion and CZK 3 billion. This estimate is based on the data with which the previous government has worked and is extended by a range of applicants, which we have expanded from the perspective of potential candidates who may request, from among the tenants, for example. So these are the changes we are making, and at the same time, we are already preparing a rather massive information and communication campaign. There is detailed information on the website of the Labour Office and on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There is today an indicative calculator in which citizens can calculate whether they will then be those who reach this form of aid and to what extent. And, of course, we will also have a call center where it will be possible to provide information free of charge so that people can check with the Labor Office staff again whether they can achieve this assistance or what other form of assistance they can use. We also prepare to contact specific residents through information channels of the Office of Labour or the Czech Social Security Administration or also in cooperation with representatives, representatives of towns and villages of the Czech Republic or with representatives of energy distribution companies. So we are trying to make sure that during January people really have the maximum information and those who perceive that they have a problem with the payment of their advances or with the payment of billing, so that they do not hesitate to contact the employment authorities where information will be extended and possibly provided with help to request help. I also announced that we wanted to update and modify the methodology for extraordinary immediate assistance during January, because it is able to cover really extreme emergency situations where assistance in the form of a housing allowance would not suffice. So we will also respond to this and, of course, we are ready to monitor the evolution of the number of applicants in each region. We are also prepared to respond, if appropriate, to the development of omicron, because it is important for us to be able to be able to work at the employment offices where the greatest pressures of applicants are to be able to satisfy applicants there quickly so that there is no unnecessary delay, so that we have sufficient personnel capacity, which, of course, will be one of the important priorities for the management of the Office of Labour, so that we can manage this. Of course, we discussed the issue of simplifying the form in the preparation of the law, whether some - as the people say - boxes, some of the parts that we ask for information can be deleted, but we did not come to the conclusion that we could lack any information. If you, co-workers, colleagues, look at the MPSV website or the Labor Office, the electronic form is there, it is possible to fill it out. And you can see that there is basically the most important information, that is, the information about the applicant, the people who share the household with him, who is or is not gainfully employed, what is the age group of individual household members there, and then there are attachments by which the applicant demonstrates its amount of income and also the amount of housing costs. There is nothing more unnecessary, and we expect that if the person fails to do it electronically from home - where it is possible to send it without necessarily having to have a data box - then the workers of the labour offices will be prepared to help these people to fill out the request and file it correctly. Yes, it will be a little more difficult for us and, above all, for the workers of the employment offices of the period. The estimates of applicants who need help range between 200, 220 and 270 thousand people. We will see what will be the development of the situation in terms of energy price developments. But we are ready to respond over the course of the year, and I think that it is still better and more responsible for this state to help directly, targeted than to take CZK 25, 30 billion and to help people who are in this problem, say, one-third, because, for example, forgiveness of VAT to people who would really be in the biggest problems solves one-third of the problem, not one-third. So we are looking for a path of specific direct assistance, even with regard to the state of the state budget and its deficit. Thank you for your attention and thank you for supporting this material. Today at the meeting of the Social Committee, this material has been discussed, it has been supported, so I hope that this will also pass at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u3	I thank you for the presentation and presentation of the proposal. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 116/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u4	Good afternoon, Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka presented in detail the bill, House press 116. I'm not going to mention his main aspects here again. The Committee on Social Policy met this morning at its extraordinary meeting and, as the Minister has already announced, the Committee supported this bill, and I would like to inform you of the resolution adopted by the 4th meeting of the Social Policy Committee of 11 January 2022 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended: "After the opening words of Minister Marian Jurečka and Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, news report by Vít Kaňkovský and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. It proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that negotiations on this bill should be concluded no later than 19 hours on 11 January 2022; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, House Press 116, as amended' - and here were amendments, however, the Committee on Social Policy did not accept any amendment - 'and V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations." So much for the Social Policy Committee's resolution from today's 4th meeting this morning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. We should now decide whether to hold a general debate, as has been said here by the Committee rapporteur, who has agreed to recommend it to us. However, we must vote on this, and I will therefore call the Members to the Chamber so that we can decide by vote. Please, let's just wait a minute. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your login cards so we can record your participation. [[15.10 hours]] For all newcomers, I just repeat that we are voting on whether we will lead to this press with a general debate, as the Committee on Social Policy, by its resolution adopted at its meeting today, has recommended. I think we've already given enough time to our colleagues and colleagues to return to the O.R. I will begin the vote on whether we will hold a general debate. Please, whoever's in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 15, 138 Members have been voted in for 136 of them. [[Against 1.]] I hereby open a general debate, as we have just voted. I have two registered with priority rights. Ma'am... [[Responses in plenary.]] Yes. I will first ask Mrs Válková to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u6	I hate to say it, but in front of everyone, I admit I made a mistake. I ran and accidentally pressed the polka dot of Mrs Schillerová's colleague. That can't happen. It happened to me. I deeply apologize and question this vote. It won't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u7	I'm sorry. I understood "I'm not questioning" the way you turned around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u8	I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u9	You're questioning me. You're questioning me. Yes. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u10	I'm questioning him. And it's my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u11	I understand. Okay. I'm sure something like this will happen. However, the vote is called into question here, which is why there is an objection to the vote that we should vote on. I therefore initiate the vote on this objection. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 150 Members and Members have been elected, 138 of whom have voted in favour. [[No one's against it.]] The proposal for this objection has been accepted, so I will put it to the vote on the original proposal again. I will remind the newcomers, we are voting on whether we will hold a general debate on the bill. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17 was signed by 158 Members and Members, 148 were in favour. [[No one.]] The general debate has therefore been approved, which I hereby initiate. Now, with priority rights, President Schillerová, President Fiala, and then there are a number of other applications. The first is therefore Mrs Schillerová's enrollment, and I hereby give her the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to express myself first and foremost to my colleagues who specialise in the area of social affairs and focus, but let me, in relation to this amendment, which we are prepared after some partial improvement, by an amendment which I assume will not cause any problems on the ground of this House, we are prepared to support, because in the end, the chassis of this proposal was a proposal which our government has already tabled and sent to the House. And in the right direction, I say this objectively, because we are constructive opposition, in the right direction there has been enlargement. And we will propose some improvements there, which will be explained by my colleagues, as Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Juchelka and others. I would like to remind you, and perhaps also the Minister, through you, Madam President, to say how many people are counting on this assistance, whether it has an estimate in any way, because I have read about the effects of between 2 and 3 billion in the proposal. I heard on Václav Moravec's Sunday issue that it might be 4.5 - and the minister didn't say that - someone in the debate said that - but he was talking about it being 4.5, maybe up to 6 billion. So let's think about how many people this is about. I want to remind you from this point here that our government, the government of Andrej Babiš, has prepared a package of laws that have dealt with energy poverty, has dealt comprehensively with the help of a large number of people, basically everyone, the middle class, who goes to work, pays taxes, has mortgages, and gets into exactly the same problems as this group, which aims at helping, with which the current government comes. We were counting on the State Social Support Act to be amended. That's why I'm saying again, we'll support him after the debate. But here remains another part of society that finds itself in unsolvable problems. Energy will rise by 30 to 70 percent. The proposal to reduce VAT was reflected in November according to the Czech Statistical Office by reducing electricity prices by more than 16 percent, gas by more than 11 percent. Finally, it was not necessary to accept the reduction for the whole year, as suggested by our government, could have been partial. The General Sorry of the Finance Minister could have been issued, as I called him to do in public space. None of this happened. Another proposal from my former government colleague, Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček, was about support for the renewables fee, up to CZK 1,500, and we wanted to pay it according to another proposal from my former colleague Minister Brabec from the Modernization Fund, to read yesterday that the government party, namely pirate, proposes some kind of carbon relief, I do not know exactly what it was called in the media, in the amount of CZK 1,600, paid from the Modernization Fund. Isn't that right? Is that a government proposal? Isn't that a government proposal? Or is it just a scream to public space that doesn't have the support of the ruling five-caliber yet? So I would like to point out and I will not stop pointing out that today's decision by this Chamber of Deputies, in which the ruling five-wheelers have a clear majority, has been rejected, among other things, by these three major bills. And I am asking and I believe that the Minister, through Madam President, will answer you that during the debate - or at the end of the debate - I do not care - will answer how many people will be involved in this assistance, whether they are ready for it, whether the labour offices are prepared to do so, which will process all this assistance in return for the zero addition of salaries from 1 January 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for your contribution, too. I'll load up more apologies that have arrived in the meantime. Today, until the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Koten apologizes and Mr Pavel Svoboda is excused for working reasons between 15 and 16 o'clock. We will therefore proceed to another registered priority right, which is Mr Radim Fiala, President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words on this emerging social levy. Of course, there are several ways to deal with it so that people who really pay for it, and they owe it to people who are not responsible for it, that energy prices are rising this way, so they need to be helped in some way. We can discuss whether it is better to do so by abolishing VAT or by a new social benefit. [[15.20 hours]] However, the fact is, and I think that few have the courage to name it, that there has been no increase in energy prices in any jumping way in the sense that it will come back again. There was no earthquake in financial markets or commodity exchanges. There wasn't even a crash. It is simply due to Euro-green policy, Euro-EU green policy. In Germany, for example, we know that three nuclear power plants, ten coal power plants, have been stopped, and therefore the price of energy produced in Europe will continue to increase. Of course, another reason that is contributing to this is - and I will call it in the quotation marks of emission allowance trading, because in my opinion the European Union was interested in buying emission allowances, but emission allowances became securities that speculators buy different funds - for example, pension funds across the ocean and the like - and of course want to make money on them. So I'm just going to give you one example to imagine. I am from the Olomouc Region, where one of the last sugar factories that have not been canceled and demolished for euro subsidies, they have not become brownfield, they have not been so-called exported and new ones have stood up in France, so one of the last sugar factories in the Olomouc Region, which has managed quite well, must buy emission allowances for CZK 70 million, which means that making some profit and even investing in production, innovating, doing something is almost impossible. This means that the emission allowance business here can also mean partial destruction of the Czech industry, Czech agriculture. And I'm convinced there's only two things to do that. In the long term, either the government will introduce a social levy here, which will be so-called forever, because energy prices will continue to rise, and the government will not care, and of course, it will cost - now it will cost 2 to 3 billion, then it will cost 6 billion, and if the prices of allowances increase, then of course more and more people will be in energy poverty, and you can cost up to 10 billion from the budget. But I think there are two things that need to be done. Prime Minister Fiala said it in his New Year's speech that you shouldn't believe when someone proposes a simple solution. It's true. This thing does not really have an easy solution, but I think the only option is to step out of the emission allowance trading system, first of all, and secondly, I think that it is necessary to step out of the so-called European Green Deal and stop putting the generated energy on commodity exchanges in order to buy it, for example, by the Němec. The Germans, of course, are a wealthy state. If it costs the energy of a German citizen what is standing here, which it probably will be, then he is otherwise, because their minimum wage is somewhere around CZK 80,000, the average wage. That means they're different. And we, if the government wants to do something for Czech citizens, will have to stop putting generated energy on commodity exchanges. I know that they will tell me that this will be a big problem with the European Union, that it is impossible, that this cannot be done, but there really is no other option - ensuring the production of energy for Czech citizens is the only option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Another priority right is registered by Vice-President Vildumetzová, Mračková Vildumetzová, I apologize. I know what it's like, so I'm careful, but I'm sorry again. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u16	Thank you so much for the floor. Madam President, Ministers, Minister, honourable Members, we are discussing today in a state of legislative emergency an amendment to the Act on State Social Support, and you know that before Christmas we have come here with three draft laws that would affect all citizens of the Czech Republic and, above all, would help all citizens of the Czech Republic in the context of rising energy prices. I must say that I was very sorry that the bill or the draft of the three bills which Mrs Alena Schillerová, Karel Havlíček and Richard Brabec presented, that neither of them was supported. And I have to say that the zero percent VAT that the citizens had in November and December, because it was Alena Schillerová who put it through, has already helped the citizens in these months. And then she also managed to negotiate with the respective Commissioner that it would be possible for January and for months to come. I am also very sorry that we could support the savings of all citizens from renewable sources, not only citizens in households but also entrepreneurs. It was approximately CZK 1,500 per household. If we were to sum it up, the savings were 35 percent. As I said here before Christmas, such a gift was given to all citizens of the Czech Republic and it also happened that all these government bills are not in the system at the moment. This means that even if we wanted to include them in today's meeting, it is not possible because the government has withdrawn these proposals. So we, at this point, if - and we will certainly want to re-submit it - we must put it forward as a parliamentary motion. It seems very strange to me now. However, Mr Jurečka, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, here today, presented this bill, which claims to be aimed at the necessary ones. We will certainly support it, but above all, Minister, I am convinced - and when I talk about it with others - that a number of people are simply not going to the employment office. And if we look at the individual statistics today, it shows that this is going to happen, and this is going to happen: people are going to take loans. I think that the proposal that we tabled under the three bills would help the majority or all citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm sure we know that another energy supplier crashed today, so you can see that the problem, as we declared here, is going to resonate the most at the beginning of the year, and then it will continue. I'm so glad that you've been working on making the form or the application that citizens are going to ask for so that it's as simple as possible. Such a paradox is that the current government has not approved an increase in civil servants' salaries of CZK 1,400, so the enormous burden that will now be on the workers of the Labour Office, so they will practically not receive anything on the grounds that you have not supported it. And the fact that a number of people just won't go to that employment office because, in my opinion - and the way I talk to these people - they're not gonna want to put up that line that's been there many, many times. At the same time, you will have to fill out several pages of forms, agree that the state will verify all data about you, you will have to submit a copy of the ID card of all members, copies of birth certificates for children, proof of the amount of income every three months, certificate of study, proof of the maintenance, lease and contract of supply of electricity. I understand that there has to be a system, that these things have to be presented, but I say this because I think it will be very administratively difficult, and I repeat it again that many people who get into this problem just won't go to the employment office. I would then like to read the accompanying resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for your performance, too. Another with priority rights is the Chairman of the TOP 09, Mr Jakob. Mr. Chairman, please. That's all of the priority rights so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you very briefly to our club's position. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Ministry for having prepared, in my opinion, a really, really elegant solution to help specific people. The elegant solution is to increase the monthly normative housing costs, and therefore it is an adjustment to the already functioning measure, so it is certainly not a new dose, as one of the previous speakers here said. At the same time, I also have to respond to my colleague, the Vice-President, who spoke a moment ago. It seems strange to me how you're defending the three proposals that aren't even here to discuss on the table anymore. It fascinates me when you say that all citizens of the Republic could get a gift. After all, the government and we are not here to give gifts to all citizens of the Republic. We're here to help those who really need help. That is why I am very pleased that, unlike your previous government's proposals, when it was, for example, a flat-rate cancellation of VAT, which in itself was very debatable, so unlike the throwing and handing out of gifts, this aid is clear, it is targeted, it is addressed, and it really helps those in a critical situation and who need help, so thank you very much for it. Thank you for being processed so quickly, and I believe that, thanks to the legislative emergency, which really is justified, this help will really get to those particular people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr President, and have a good afternoon. And as I look around, I do not see anyone with priority rights, which we have already exhausted, and we will look at the Members who are duly enrolled. I will ask Mrs Jana Pastuchová to take the floor, and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of our President's prior rights have been said here, but I would like to say a little bit more about this House press, which - but this has also been said here - 15. 12. 2021 submitted by the former Government as House Press 97. I understand that the current minister, the current government, still without confidence, when I say this, this House press has pulled down so that this House press can go in a state of legislative emergency, and has added two things - or has increased one dose there and extended this circle of people to subleases - and, as we have in the system, we are going to vote on recreational objects to make the people's circle bigger. I am really glad that there is a government mandate to decide that if the price goes even higher, it may even increase these normative costs. What I am missing there, and this will also concern my amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate, is that although the government has given itself the opportunity to raise, but I do not know now if it will - it will not - there will be money - there will be no money - so I will return to the fact that my amendment, which I am filing together with Mr Juchelka, concerns a change of one word, and that we are imposing a duty on the government to not "can" these low-income citizens. It's one word. Instead of "may" it's there to raise it. Because let's give the message that it's not just one gesture right now, but that the citizens - although unfortunately it doesn't concern everyone, as our former government proposed by our laws - aren't going to let those people down, and he's really promising them - not that he can, but that he's going to help them. Next thing. Minister Jurečka, through you, answered several questions to us on the Committee on Social Policy. I am glad to hear the answers here and from him in plenary, but our proposal for zero VAT did not pass because it would affect another state budget deficit. However, we today, not even Minister Jurečka, as he told us, do not really know how many households and how many people will be involved. Now there have been subleases, now there will be a permanent residence, and here is based only on an analysis by Mr. Daniel Prokop, who says that it will be approximately 250 to 280 thousand households. There really weren't included holiday homes, there really were many, I can tell even the seniors I know from the neighborhood, lives and it isn't counted there at all. So I really miss how much this is really going to cost, because you're referring here that we have the budget for what it is, and that's why we can't afford to help the middle class, which, of course, touches it too. It's gonna affect all the households, and it's gonna turn out in a completely different way in the middle class. Furthermore, as Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová said here, I know from my surroundings that - or I asked the Minister about this today on the Social Policy Committee - we have seniors who do not have the Internet, have never been to the employment office at all, and are also ashamed to go to the employment office. They could be handicapped people. Many employment offices are not even yet, unfortunately, adapted to handicapped people, although in most cases they will, but there will be queues along with those who come for those benefits every month. So they're gonna line up and wait there. They're ashamed, so it seems to me that this government is relying on half the people not to come and save the state instead of helping everyone. And because I don't know what the impact, how many of these households are going to be, and how much money is going to be - do we know that it won't need to be similar to what our government proposed with VAT forgiveness? I don't know. I may not think so, but it may turn out completely differently with the possibility of increasing the normative cost of living, where the government now has a "can" there, I suggest, not that it has to, but that it will do it, that it will increase it. So he can do it several times, and we'll get to the amount you blamed our government for. [[15.40 hours]] Another thing that has been said. I asked for specific help for an old senior who is 80 years old, doesn't have Internet, has no relatives, but is self-sufficient, has never been to the employment office - if there's gonna be a call center. The minister told me he was, he just said he would, so I'm just gonna be happy. There was another problem, and I would like the Minister to remember that, he promised that he would deal with it - that we also have citizens who depend on their health to operate energy. They're people... we already have people at home on the ventilator today, on different devices that are connected to the power and they really need it for their lives, so in order to also take account of the fact that these people are going to be affected and they can really be home without the electricity, thank God we already have these options here in our republic. I'm really glad about this, but let's think about these people who really depend on these machines. So in a detailed debate, I am going to sign up for an amendment that only changes the fact that the government can't, but it will increase the contribution or increase the monthly normative costs if the normative costs are raised and not that it will depend on the government's benevolence, and either yes or no, or we will not deal with it now. So since you've already taken this step to help, promise the citizens that it wasn't just a false promise, but that you'll keep it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mr Igor Hendrych is now in the debate. Mr. Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, there aren't many of you here at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on some of my previous speakers' speeches and discuss the issue of the housing contribution maybe a little more detailed. Today we discussed this, as has been said, on the Committee on Social Policy. I asked the minister a few questions. He answered them, but not quite satisfactory from my point of view. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs assumes that the amount against the current or recently past condition will increase after the introduction of this instrument by CZK 2.5 to 3 billion. Minister Václav Moravec's questions on Sunday claimed that it could be 4.5 billion if needed, and Ms Zamrazilová, President of the National Budget Board, even admitted that it could be CZK 6 billion. I'm standing on your step, aren't I?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u23	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I didn't mean to interrupt, however...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u24	It's my first time here. [[The speaker moves the foot under the speaker's counter.]] I'm sure it looks better now. [[- Yes.]] It seemed weird to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u25	I think it'll be more comfortable for you right now. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u26	That's right, that's right. I'll keep an eye on that next time. So I won't lose my thread, please. So there's some way of juggling some numbers, but it doesn't suit me at all. Not 3.5 billion, not 3 billion, not 4.5 billion, not even 6 billion, just doesn't fit. Because when we look at the current state of use of the housing allowance in 2021 published by the Labour Office, we find that CZK 7 billion has been exhausted until today, when there was no energy crisis, there was no need to saturate, to help anybody else. At the same time, there are statistics or, respectively, some approximations that I have downloaded from the pages of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is available to anyone who would be interested in this, in an analysis that the Ministry has had to process last year, where it appears that only two out of ten seniors, respectively senior families, receive the contribution. Four families with children under the age of 18 receive this contribution and three of the other eligible citizens thereafter. In summary, Mr Prokop of PAQ Research, who, according to Minister Jurečka, works very closely with or specifically with the Ministry of Labour, claims that 25 per cent of households receive this contribution until now, 25 per cent equals 7 billion. One quarter of the eligible population is equal to CZK 7 billion. So I don't understand these amounts, so I'm going back to that: 3, 4, 5, 6, it's so little. [[billions]] If we were to target the entire population, and I assume that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs wants to target the entire population, that it wants to help all eligible people, and those authorisations will increase according to PAQ Research analysis, and in that case we get to four times the current state and it is four times seven, which is 28 billion crowns. But now the question is, do we really want to help the entire legitimate population, or do we kind of anticipate ahead that these people won't touch it, that they won't just go there, that they won't pick up the post. And that assumption is really there, and it's already been said here. These people don't come, only 25 percent of the population use the allowance. And those reasons have been known for quite a long time, it is no news that these welfare benefits are simply not used in quotation marks. People are ashamed, they have a problem with being stigmatized, in those queues, they've already been said here, at the employment offices. Many don't know. And for seniors who are by far the worst in draw, because they're only two out of ten, so there's even worse in that, basically, this thing, dealing with this thing, it's not at all low-level, it's already been said here. Administration associated with this, or the whole application process and so on, is too complicated for a lot of seniors and is not, as they say, low-level. So let me get this straight. I basically have two basic questions for the Minister, through Madam President. One is, how much money will it cost, or do we really want to help the percentage of those who are entitled to it? That's kind of connected to one question. And then really more specifically specify how we're actually going to proceed and how we're going to do it, the hundred percent. So far, it has been said that some communication campaign is going to be and will be and so on, but I would like to hear it really accurately, specifically, so that it has some logic and so that it sounds credible. Of course, this thing will be watched. It will not only be followed by us in opposition, but it will be followed, I suppose, by the professional public and the media and so on, as you will be doing this year. What are the statistics going to be? Can you reach 70 percent, 80 percent? We'll see. Even if it's 90, it's not enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am just reminding the other gentlemen of the Ministers and the Minister, you can address them directly, not necessary through the President. Thank you. Now we have one point of fact, Mr Petr Sadovský. I have you, Ambassador Sadovský, signed up for a point of fact. Okay, you're interrupting, so I'm erasing you. And we will continue, Mr. Aleš Juchelka is signed in and Mr. Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the state social support that has been prepared at this moment not only by the government last but also by the government current with several fresh parameters. If this is constantly said about the mantra of 2.5 to 3 billion, I simply do not believe it, because at the moment there is actually no analysis of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, what sample, what sets of people should be involved in the housing allowance. We do not know whether it will be half a million or a million people, but at this point we statistically know that, for example, according to the new report on exclusion from housing from 2021, this may involve up to 900,000 citizens who have their own housing costs higher than the 30% of the cost of the housing allowance. So the mantra that this government will save, because it will pay only 2.5 to 3 billion crowns, it simply isn't, it doesn't exist, because we have no formula at all, no relevant data. [[15.50 hours]] In addition, the government coalition is likely to be preparing a large-scale supply through the Pirates, which is said to cost up to CZK 50 billion. And I firmly believe that even at this point, which is just about to increase energy prices, the pirát might have said that, because I only read it yesterday in the media, so I myself wonder whether it will or will not be, or at all, what is being prepared here in this. It affects a large proportion of the population, and this is very sensitive, so it is mainly about families and the energy crisis, as it is called, as the government has announced, that it wants to avoid energy poverty in the energy crisis, so it does not apply very much at the moment. "Quick, targeted and addressed" we have heard - at the moment we do not even know any conditions for extraordinary immediate assistance, how those citizens will receive the extraordinary immediate assistance, whether they can, when they apply, have a mortgage, whether they can have a lease, whether they can have some money saved, whether they can have some property in their possession, at this time we do not know, and not even any reporters at the employment offices know it. As much as I'm trying to respect those hundred days of defense, I have to ask here how the government will do it. With its measures in the context of increasing the normative housing costs, only the weakest have helped those who already receive the housing allowance covered by this measure. Another will allow it to increase the minimum amounts, which means it will increase the whole set even more. And there's my next question, if it ever goes back to how the normative cost of the MIT counts, or whether it stays here at this level and we're always going to push ourselves away from this level and over the years to see if this is the real standard. Our entire society is facing crises - covido, inflationary, energy. Here I am calling for a reflection on the reality of people's lives, which we call the so-called middle class. It is not possible for people who work without help to take care of their families, just because they stay just above the state's aid threshold and thus bear all the costs from their own. It's for them to have the extra immediate help, because as I understand it, if they already put their savings on energy reserves and their payments, then then, if they don't have, I don't know, a winter jacket for the baby, they can ask for extra immediate help. And that's what I'm saying with seniors who maybe have a pillow saved when a fridge or a washing machine falls out of their house. So if we do not help them, it will be a big blow to the budget for the families, so that it will not be left to support other economic operators. The family won't be able to afford to go to the movies, to dinner, to the pool, to pay for the rings. That way, secondarily, of course, those who are owners of restaurants will suffer. The government just punished those who wouldn't touch the housing allowance. Expensive energy pays twice, once for itself, twice for the poor. Family doesn't go, like I said before, to the pool, to dinner, they don't pay for the rings. The uncertainty that the government hasn't been helping the families is really great. Technically, everything seems to be in order. You fill out the form, you go to the office, you stand up to some line, you wait for the stamp, but, de facto, what I'm talking about here is that we're here in some way just for a group of people, and by not helping those active people, they've planted a grain of doubt about themselves. Most of them will have to google the address of the employment office for the first time in their lives and familiarize themselves with the world of welfare benefits. And I'm asking if it's a good idea to expand a group of people who depend on it, or if they need help in the future. However, important, and for me as the only meaningful, is really broad help here in this, for several reasons, because it will simply help some kind of spiritual encouragement and belonging that they are not alone in this, that even someone is thinking about them, even though they have never even received child support. The social crisis, where energy belongs in particular, should be overcome by all of us together and not divide society again into those we help, and those whom we cannot help through an unfair key. We don't want scissors in society so sharpened by various pandemic measures to open up even more. That's digging a ditch, not building a relationship between a citizen and a state, even at a time of crisis. I also belong to politicians who want the smallest possible state, or as little as possible in the lives of people on the part of the state apparatus, but at a time of crisis, his duty is simply and simply, in my opinion, to help across the board. I have one more question, and then I'll show you the forms. I heard that part of the population will also be targeted, I think the minister here said so, I suspect in the speech when government bills were being introduced, that the reporters of the employment offices would address themselves and seek out those clients who might be entitled to a housing allowance. So I wonder if this is true and how the mechanism will work, according to which key such a list will be created, how officials will identify it and how they will address it. And as far as the forms are concerned, that's what the application for a housing allowance looks like. [[He's showing the forms.]] You have to fill it all out with all the attachments. If you have a student at home, you have to go to study to get a degree certificate. If you have a homeless child, you need a doctor's certificate, you need birth certificates from all children, and from all adults living in a common home, you need a citizen's ID. That's the form they're gonna have to go to the employment office with, and the employment authorities aren't really gonna make it. [[shows]] In their opening hours every Monday and every Wednesday, the reporters who are there already have so much work to do, that this will add up to them, because we will decide not to help across the board here, but to help as this government wants, even though, as I say, it is just some mantra, 2.5 to 3 billion. It's going to be a lot, a lot more, in my opinion, because we don't know how many people are involved right now, and how many people are going to find out about the employment office. The energy crisis has really affected all of us, and at this point, of course, I want to appeal to all citizens, so that if they get into such a distressing situation, they can come to the authorities at the moment, because the total aid is probably not - we will see what the pirát will come up with. And I want to ask all the employees of the Labor Office to simply and simply be patient, even though the government froze their salaries and they belong in all those offices absolutely to the quirks of those who have an average wage at the Labor Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. Mr Jiří Kobza is now prepared, but the rapporteur Kaňkovský made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u30	Good afternoon. I am very sorry, but I must respond to my esteemed colleague Aleš Juchelka, through Madam President. I would very much like to, and I am one of those who would really like it very much so that we can get rid of our state's excess administration. I really, really wish I had, I've had it in health care very often. But here it almost looks from the appearance of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, a colleague of Juchelka, and so on that the ANO movement has been in opposition for eight years. The form that you presented here, my colleague, did not, in my opinion, come now, in a few weeks of Petr Fiala's government, we have had the form here for a very long time. And I am sorry that it may be too extensive, that we have not been able to make it more kind for the citizens in any way, but I do not remember - and we both sat on the Social Committee - that you would have proposed to simplify it in the last parliamentary term. So I'm asking, do you really think Minister Jurečka could have made it in two weeks when he was preparing this bill? Do you really think that's fair?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Juchelka, with a factual point and followed by President Schillerová, also with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Only to Mr Kaňkovský, through you, Madam President. I didn't even say that the form was wrong in any way or that it should be simplified. All I'm saying is that if half a million people come up with this form for the employment office, those officials aren't gonna be able to prosecute because they're only open on Mondays and Wednesdays. I didn't hear that the employment office was changing in any way or that he was going to meet these people. And I'm gonna tell you that those reporters at the employment office, so often when they bring it in filled out, they call them back, they have to fill something in or they fill it out wrong. Therefore, this will, of course, extend the period of completion of these forms. So I have nothing against these forms. After all, even today on the Social Policy Committee, Minister Jurečka said that if he had somehow revised it and could have narrowed it down, "there is not a single box he could cross off, because they all have a purpose in some way." End of quote. So it's not something against the forms, it's against simplification, but it's just a defense of the non-system in that we're about to overwhelm the labour offices that are releasing another 25 different social benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual point, President Alena Schillerová is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr Kaňkovský, through the Vice-President, you know that well, you are a social policy specialist, you have been here for several years, you have been on the Social Committee. I remember my former colleagues from the Ministry of Finance always talking about you with respect as a person who knows this area, so you know very well, through the Vice-President, that every form is a reflection of legal regulation. That means there's nothing anyone can make up, an official looking out the window, but that reflects precisely the legislation that this Chamber of Deputies had to approve in the former or earlier period. I remember - it wasn't my material, but I remember those battles here about every amendment to any social law. So I don't think it was fair of you, on the other hand, sorry, through Madam Vice-President. He, Mr. Juchelka, meant exactly what he just said. He said, "The help will be so difficult and so much addressable, that a lot of people wouldn't even ask for it." That's what he meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Now again with the factual remark, rapporteur Vít Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, President Schillerová. Maybe I didn't quite understand what my colleague Juchelka meant. Anyway, it sounded like the form was overblown, and I was just wondering if there was anything we could do about it in the future. The President is right that this is a reflection of legal regulation, and it is a great challenge for us for this parliamentary term. But I've been thinking about it - and I'll make it up to you. We stand here before a number of families, a number of individuals, actually find themselves in a crisis in terms of energy prices, and this government comes with direct aid. I understand it's not quite easy, but we're not talking about some zero set here. A whole bunch of people who are going to be touched are already getting the housing allowance. That means it's not going to be a new situation for them, but they're going to have a higher housing allowance. And, yes, for some, it will be a new situation. Minister Jurečka said so in the opening words. We have to make a very good information campaign. We need to realize that it's not just gonna be on the Internet, because a whole bunch of those recipients may not be on the Internet. He also spoke of the need to strengthen the office of employment and that they may need to be rewarded for it. That was also said here, or at least this was said on the Social Policy Committee in the morning. So let's not make this much of a politician, but let's really try to help these people because they're waiting for it. And we say, let's help with the address.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, rapporteur. I will now ask Mr Jiří Kobza to be patient because we have two factual points. Mr Marek Novák, then Mr Aleš Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm just a little bit of a technical mixer in the debate. We have read the resolution in the last parliamentary term in the framework of press 652, Benefits in material distress, in the second reading, where we called on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to deal with these forms. So please take a look at the footage of the last Chamber of Deputies. That's where you'll find it. Unfortunately, although we tried to push through this law and subsequently have the Chamber of Deputies approved this accompanying resolution, the Pirate Party, in particular, blocked it at that time. That's not how it was discussed, and the challenge, the resolution, didn't even get into the Ministry. So please don't tell me we didn't deal with this. Find it in the tapestry - print 652, last term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Another de facto, Mr. Aleš Juchelka. Isn't that right? Please, you have the floor. He will prepare himself with the de facto President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u40	Just a note. We're really gonna support this, the State Social Support Act. I'm just saying how it's gonna be complicated for the employment authorities, because, for example, this novel is expanding subleases, rentals, those service apartments, and so on. For example, in sublet apartments, first the officials will have to switch from all those who are already there and taking extra immediate assistance because they have sublet housing, so thanks to this amendment, they will have to switch it, these tenants here, to the housing allowance. That means there's going to be a double agenda. And when they pay them a living allowance as part of their housing lease because of this amendment, and maybe they don't get to the amount of some right to a living, then they'll either supplement it with a mop or maybe a housing supplement. So what I'm saying is, actually, even here, this is going to be a kind of dubling, and it's going to be even more complicated from the point of view of the administration of the Labor Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with a point of fact, President Marek Výborný. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Only very briefly to Mr. Novák. Thank you for reminding the press of the 652 and the resolution, but I would like to point out that it was your government that could have responded to this, even without having to wait for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs belonged to your Prime Minister, and it could have been settled a long time ago. Your colleague Aleš Juchelka is right that the form really reflects what is a legal obligation. But then let's talk about why your government hasn't already designed the simplification so that we can simplify the individual forms in the second sequence. I think that the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will certainly approach this differently from the previous government. And if somewhere it is possible to simplify the laws so that they can be simplified in the sense of the form and it is more user-friendly, proclient-like, that means that those who are entitled to the address aid that we are talking about in order to achieve them more easily in order to reduce the bureaucratic burden on the labour office and those who administer individual benefits, then, of course, this government and the Minister will approach it. But now you're here to talk about it's not, so you're really crying on your own grave. I mean the grave of the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Marek Novák, please, is now registered with another case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Only to my honored colleague. I have responded to the fact that it was said here that the members of the ANO movement did not give a damn. It's not true, I disproved it, that's all. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. He has now rejoined with Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u46	Thank you very much. I don't want this to end up like this discussion about somebody making some forms. Let's discuss this one by one. A request for a housing allowance is a basic request. This must be completed, all those living in the common household must fill in their identity documents. This is clear to avoid leaks in this particular dose. [[16.10 hours]] Proof of the amount of the housing costs. You have to deliver the lease, you have to fill out the form, you have to tell me how much you pay the cost of living so that the benefit can be calculated. Evidence of the amount of your quarterly income must be provided, of course, so that the official, the official, knows if you are entitled to a housing allowance. If you have children who are careless, you need to have a certificate of the health of the careless child. That's why, if you have a care allowance, that's another income to the family, which, of course, doesn't count. Then you have a certificate of the inability of a careless child to prepare continuously for a future occupation or to pursue an occupation for an illness or accident, you need a certificate from a doctor. If you have a child who is a minor and is studying and not at the employment office, but is a student, he needs a degree certificate. And I could go on like this. No form is useless. That's not what I'm saying, on the contrary. But all I'm saying is that if half a million people at the employment offices have to do this, as simple as we call it, it's gonna make the officials pause.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have drawn up factual points and now Mr Jiří Kobza is enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Happy New Year. I would like to introduce you briefly to the opinion of the SPD MEP on the proposed change in the form of setting up the housing allowance that we will support. We support because we think who gives fast, twice gives, and those people need it. This does not mean, however, that we consider it appropriate, and certainly not a comprehensive, complete or final form of aid to citizens, families, households affected by the ever-increasing price of energy and housing costs. The government is basically following the proverbial path of least resistance when it puts the citizens to whom the cost of living rockets rise, at the office of work, in line with the request for a housing allowance, with the fact that it may be a successful request, but perhaps not, because the government is proposing a slight increase in this contribution, but the parameters for entitlement to it are - i.e. the ratio of the actual cost of living to the total household income - not changing. As a result, working citizens still have difficult, even impossible, access to this contribution compared to those who are not working, and we do not mean the elderly and the disabled. The same difficult approach to this contribution continues to be given to citizens who live in their own properties, in their own apartments or houses, or, as I see in my neighborhood, to house cabins for a whole year to save. A major problem is the enormous administrative complexity of the application for housing allowance, content and time, as well as the fact that according to a professional study recently published on the News List, many people who would be legally entitled to this contribution do not even know about its existence. This study estimates that there are up to two thirds of citizens with this claim, i.e. about 300,000 people, especially seniors. As far as seniors are concerned, instead of referring to a humiliating and complex procedure for applications for social benefits, not only the growth of energy in relation to this group of our fellow citizens, the introduction of a minimum increase in retirement would be at least a minimum current wage, which is the long-term proposal of the SPD movement. But let us also look at this problem from the point of view of those people, the applicants, because we should also talk about the moral level of the issue, namely the need to undergo a social welfare procedure that is humiliating for a working citizen in many ways. We, who are here in the second period, remember the desperate attempt to introduce a sockart to facilitate the selection of social benefits based on a magnetic card. A number of associations and associations came up against this, saying that, in fact, it is - to quote Mr. Krása - a sign for the soccer, and that is why they did not want it. However, compared to this proposal, the social card system was more sophisticated. But I would also like to point out that we are dealing with the consequences where any responsible government would address the causes. We should go all the way to the famous roots, to the core of the problem, and that is the so-called common energy policy of the European Union, our involvement in the European Union's single energy market, including a speculative model of emission allowance trading, which we are completely pointless to throw away our comparative advantage of being self-sufficient producers and exporters of electricity until now. So we are also throwing away our energy self-sufficiency and security in the name of the green ideology of the so-called renewable resources dictated to us by Brussels and Berlin. And what do we gain by doing that? With the efforts of politicians to please Brussels, we are only gaining increasing energy poverty for Czech citizens and the opportunity to sponsor German producers of energy from windmills and solar panels and in the near future, after the Nordstream 2 pipeline was put into operation, even a rather dubious privilege to buy Russian gas from Germany with a German premium. I am not yet talking about the absolutely insane and devastating plan of the European Union, the Green Agreement for Europe, which our previous governments have been head-on innuendo and which, in the style of'recommence the wind of rain', orders Member States to liquidate flights of tested quality and cheap energy resources in a dubious course of jumping emission reductions, which is often literally contrary to natural interests, common sense and whose consequences on the biosphere have not yet been calculated by anyone responsible and qualified. You see that everything is related to everything and the energy poverty that we are dealing with for a certain segment of our citizens has more far-reaching roots and more far-reaching causes, and it is high time for the government to start dealing with the causes, not the consequences, and to think about future generations and get off this energy suicide train while there is still time. Energo-brained women are not the way, it is just a lure to distract attention from the real causes of expensive electricity and the unwillingness of this government to address this matter, because humiliatingly proving your own poverty at the offices is something humanly terrible, if you are not a skillful manipulator who lives out of social benefits all your life, but you are a person who has worked his whole life, and suddenly you find that work is not enough to support you, and you have to go humbly prove that you are poor, that you don't really have anything, and fill out a lot of paperwork and convince officials - I don't know which one of you can imagine that he would find himself in this situation. So let's think about these people. The idea of selective aid, however good it is, at this point I am under the impression that we are also pouring out the baby with the bathtub and that it is actually turning against those people who should be helped, because many of them will not reach it, they will not have the courage, they will not have the courage, they will be ashamed to go to prove that he is poor, that his life has failed, that he is unable to support his family. And I don't think we should ignore it in any way and try to come up with a system that will help these people because it's not just about people, it's about private people. It's small companies, it's trades that are also dependent on electricity, and basically price increases are more or less liquidation for them. So, of course, as I said, we're going to support it, because at least some of this is going to happen, but I'm going to suggest that we think very carefully about how we're going to rework this whole thing so it's functional, so it's going to be as many people as possible without chasing them down the aisle of shame, the poverty that they would have to prove. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. [[Let's hear it for SPD MPs.]] We have a factual point to make, and that is where Mr Patrik Nacher is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Havlíček, duly registered, will be ready to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I listened carefully to the exchange of views, the factual ones, and I have to say that I don't understand the position and position of the current government a little, because they said they'd be literate about these things. It doesn't seem very readable to me, because where it suits them, they come up with the principle of discounting. Now I mean, for example, the withdrawal, the withdrawal of the VAT tax law, the withdrawal. For outsiders, they don't know, which means the law isn't really here anymore. We could have discussed the original government proposal here, said some parameters. You have the strength not to approve, but there could be a debate here. By taking it back, including the mass lawsuits and the like, maybe I'll get there sometime in the future, so that means no one can adopt it, we can't even talk about it here. The law is basically not here in this building, it doesn't exist or anything. On the other hand, where it suits you again, there's continuity -- now we're talking about the form. At the same time, colleagues who are experts in this area clearly state the limits, whether these people want to do it or not, on the one hand, there are a number of people who have never asked for any benefits to this day at the employment office, or on the other hand, when there are more people, if the employment office is enough to process it. And I hope we all agree that, besides help, the speed of the aid is important here, and I'm kind of missing that. It means that sometimes when it suits you, it's discounting, sometimes it's continuity. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And the question is, how does that help people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. And now we have another factual point. I will ask Mr Havlíček to be patient, and the rapporteur Vít Kaňkovský has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u52	I will only briefly respond, by your means, Madam President, to my colleague Kobza and my colleague Nacher. I think we're all talking about the same thing here. At this point, a number of families and individuals find themselves in a very difficult situation in connection with the increase in energy prices. But none of us at the moment know how the situation will proceed. We're predicting that it's going to get worse. At this point, the government was looking for a quick address solution for this situation, in which we are at the moment, with some prediction of the possibility of increasing the aid. No one is saying that the government will not look for more tools in the course of the year if the situation gets worse, and we all wish that we would not push citizens into that aisle of shame or, as it has been said here, because I think we all realize that this is really nothing enviable, but we are looking for help for the most necessary, so that they do not stay completely in energy poverty, and that this will not end - it will probably not end - because energy prices will rise and predictions are really very alarming - so the government is very aware of it. But now we're looking for a quick address solution. It's not exactly comfortable, we all realize it, but it's a quick address aid. So now I don't understand a little bit of Nacher's colleague, who I really appreciate that he's beating us up for it. You guys had the House press 97 that actually started it, and this government followed up on it, so I don't quite get the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, rapporteur. Mr Karel Havlíček, a Member of Parliament, is finally on the line for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since I have been in the process of preparing all the different measures and solutions all the time, I am only going to have to recapitulate them, but I will point out in front of the parentheses that the law is not bad at all. The law is good, and to a large extent it is based on what our government has already submitted, but I recognise that it is improved by certain requirements and will undoubtedly help a certain sample of the population. The problem is that we are not able to agree on how many households will actually be affected and if we want to help only those who are really the most vulnerable to whom this measure, which I say again, is not bad, or if we want to help other low-income households and households with medium-income income, is what we are aiming at. Because if we add it up, and for that are simple statistics, low-income and medium-income households we have 85 percent in the Czech Republic. The argument that if we had taken the area measures that we are proposing, either through VAT or through forgiveness at this time of difficult to accept renewables charges, that we would have interrupted them for a year would have affected, yes, 100 percent of households, that is obvious, but it would have affected the companies to which we would have helped. To argue that the 15 percent of households, let's say the wealthier ones, wouldn't really feel it and that it's useless to give them this is wrong, because we could never, in principle, lower any tax, because we would always say that the 10, 15 percent of rich people will never touch it, they won't even feel it, so we're not actually going to lower those taxes. So maybe we could look at the excise tax, or maybe it was fuel, diesel, if you remember, last year, which we also reduced. And undoubtedly those with expensive cars may not touch that much, but the vast majority of those who drive the car will feel it. And that's what we're aiming at, because it's fast, it's simple, it's not waiting for anything, it's not defensive for those who have to ask somewhere, no one has to stand up for any queue, it's not complicated in the sense that everyone's going to orient themselves in it, de facto they don't have to do anything at all, they just get a lower amount. But I would take this debate, which we have said many times, quite a bit. I would understand when he tells the five-calice that it's worth saving, that the help isn't just gonna be on all the people that it touches, that it's just gonna be on that sample of the most really influential, and that there's basically no resources. It's an argument. I may disagree with him, but that's all we can do at this point. If I hadn't had a discussion last week, it was on the show You have the floor with Mr.Michálek of Pirates, who, to my surprise, has made another solution proposed by a member of the five-wheeler, namely the so-called carbon bonus, 200 to 400 crowns per person, each resident, de facto a voucher that would each receive, which would be very easily distributed in this form, more or less by paying a little less, which would cost some 50 billion crowns in the final. I heard it for the first time, and I was like, okay, maybe it's something completely new. Then I saw it on the Pirates social media. Actually, it's not a bad idea. This in itself gives some logic, everyone gets 200 or 400 crowns, somehow it would have been calculated, it is simple, but it would cost several times more than what we propose. The fact that it's taken, as the pirát suggest, from the Modernization Fund, isn't new either. We also said that those renewable resources that we would forgive, and it's de facto nothing more than this - whether I call it not paying for renewables or giving someone a $400 discount, so it's exactly the same thing as I call it - then let's do what we suggested. Why are we talking about giving someone a carbon bonus while rejecting what we've prepared here? It's in legal form, it's as simple as slaps, and everyone will understand that, because at the moment, those households are hard to absorb the fact that they're paying for that solar tunnel that's going to cost us 600 billion crowns of fees, even in a time of global energy crisis. So I'm not quite sure what the five-calice are really going to do, because if we're going to play for that help, then we're going to agree to this calmly, and we don't have to do it any more, and let's say, well, we did something, it's going to cost billions of crowns. But if we really want to help in a fundamental way, and I believe that we should help, then it is more or less flat aid, and to the two that we have proposed, at this point there is a third, the carbon bonus. I'm saying again that it's de facto the same thing, except that's what we call it. But then let's see if we can implement this, and let's discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. I am looking to see if anyone else is reporting for the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will not hide for having the general debate ended and only then responded, as it has ever been customary, but I want to respond to what has been said here, I have taken notes. It's been repeatedly mentioned here the question of how much it's going to cost. I have to say, no one can quantify it today. No one can say today what the price of energy will be in April, July, September, December. Therefore, today I cannot say any precise estimate of the budgetary impact and an accurate estimate of the number of people or households who will be applicants during the year. I can't say, even if I'm trying to be more specific. The numbers we're based on are given by what my predecessor quantified. We have expanded them roughly by the volume of applicants who would be in a group of those who are tenants, now let's say we extend it by about a unit of hundreds of those who will meet the housing parameter within a recreational collapsed building, but I can't even quantify the evolution of electricity and gas prices. So I'm sorry, it's really the amount that's in this material in the explanatory memorandum based on an estimate that's been processed by colleagues at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. But what is important and what is true, we have said it repeatedly and I say it here again, that all those who ask - and we will really try to make the group as broad as possible - their requests will be satisfied if they meet the parameters that are given in that law. It's not like we're out of CZK 3 billion and we're out of money. No, it's not like that. Despite all this, this solution, which will be addressed, targeted, will be significantly cheaper than the forgiveness of VAT and the forgiveness of part of the green bonus, because this measure would mean a state budget deficit of more than CZK 30 billion, and come here to tell me where you would imagine that the state of CZK 30 billion should save, on which chapter - transport, health, education? Or is it a simple solution that would increase the government's debt? So maybe this is the difference in the approach in which the former government and this government differ, when we say that the rate of debt simply cannot be the same for us as it has been. Every crown we issue, we know we have to turn around three times, because we're in a situation when we take revenue into the state budget last year, so all of this revenue was automatically 99 percent of the mandatorial expenditure. All other state spending over the mandarins we've been doing, and they've been done in the past governments and in the past, except for some exceptional years, practically deficit and debt. So much comment on this question. The question of the area solution - I have expressed myself here. A flat-rate solution would mean that, although we would certainly be pleased with a large number of citizens, including about many of us, who are sitting here in this Chamber of Deputies, but those who are really up to their ears in this mess today, as the people say, that help would bring solutions in the case of only VAT of 21 percent, that would be the solution, the help, if we started the green bonus, we would be approaching one third of the solution to the problem. Well, I guess that's not the solution we want. And anyway, let's say those units of hundreds of thousands of people, 150 to, say, 250, 280 thousand people, would have to deal with the same contribution to housing. So let's get this straight and say that we wouldn't be able to spare the VAT and the green bonus of the work of people who will have to manage the applications they make every month so far, and now the set of people will spread. I have promised and we are working on what I have said here, in cooperation with the partners of others, so that, through the communication that the Czech Social Security Administration and the labour authorities conduct every month, on their client materials, citizens of this country, we can give information on where, how they can learn about help if they have a problem with paying back payments, bills or energy advances. We will also invite - and we are already in communication on this matter - representatives of energy companies and representatives of self-government in the Czech Republic to meet as many places as possible where people and the public meet in some way at different workplaces with the state or with some of these representatives, such as energy companies, the information was. So we're working on it. Plus social networks, plus some channels that we use through the media that give us space to do that. Of course, capacity at the employment offices - I am aware that this is the narrow throat of the situation and we will work with people with the management of the employment office to the maximum extent that we can possibly be able to strengthen capacity so that we can respond, if necessary, to omicrons by moving people from other workplaces. At the same time, what I said is true. And when I got a complaint a week ago from, say, some form of complaint from the representatives of the Labor Office, I didn't say, "Some deputy or deputy will take care of it." I said that I would meet them personally, and I am ready, and I want us to set some additional targets in addition to last year's rewards, which will be paid for the amount of work that people will do extra at the employment offices. I think it's management, motivational, and something that's standardly common in all the other institutions. Let me make one more comment - the employment authorities have been mentioned here. I was surprised to hear from members of the Social Committee, who have been members of the Social Committee for some time now, that the Labor Offices are working on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8:00 to 17. I found a job office in Bílovec, for example, and the employment office has office hours on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays and for some types of clients on Fridays. So don't turn the employment office into a public office that works and accepts applications and communicates with clients on Mondays and Wednesdays. Not so, all other branches of the employment office in the Czech Republic have worked since July of last year, when restrictions within the covid were no longer valid, in the official days of all days of the week. And as for the debate on the forms. I said again - when you go through this place, you have it electronically - so the data, I think, isn't that complicated. Yes, there were those attachments that needed to be uploaded. I'll just add: if the applicants are the clients of the Labor Office today, then the data that's there will be preset, they'll only be registered, confirmed. So it's not like everyone's been dating all the data all over again from the start. And I'll be happy to move digitization over the four years to draw from other registers, from other systems information that the child in the common home is that the child in the population register is some age and so on. And we're going to be in a situation where in a year or two, this data is going to be pre-prepared, and this person is going to adjust it if there's been any change in the family's circumstances, and we're going to simplify life for these people, too. But we're not in that situation right now, we don't have that space. We were really going through the law to see if we could cross something out, but it's not about crossing something out right now, but rather taking information from other parts of the registers where the state has information in the future. But that's the process of digitization, that's the process of linking systems, and neither I nor you in this House are going to solve that, today, when we need to discuss this law so that we can make it through the end of January to give these people a chance to help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Minister. The Minister's appearance raised two factual points. Mr. Ambassador Aleš Juchelka. Three factual points. Mr Igor Hendrych and President Schillerová follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u58	Thank you very much. I'm just talking to the Minister. I'm sorry, that's what I said about Monday and Wednesday, that's behind me. And I also have a request from the Minister that at this point, if he really knows and admits that he doesn't know that it will be at least 2.5 to 3 billion, but that it will be more so that the media doesn't really represent the fact that this government is saving, because it will spend maximum on the housing allowance of 3 billion. Because that's how it is in the media space, and that's how it sounds. [[16.40 hours]] And I know that, of course, it's not the maximum you're going to spend, because you don't know the exact set of people who ask for a housing allowance. But that's just the way it is. And it could be 15 or 20 billion. But it may be calm, as some experts say, and they're already sobering up to twice as much as $6 billion, but let's not say that the housing allowance is going to cost $2.5 to $3 billion and that the government is simply saving it, because you don't even know it yourself, as you confessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u59	We also thank you for the speech, and now Mr Igor Hendrych is prepared for a point of fact, followed by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor. I'll get back to what I said here in my first speech. The Minister said a moment ago: I cannot imagine that we should spend 25 to 30 billion in case we forgive VAT. But I'm saying what I said a while ago: We're currently pumping 7 billion a year and it's pumping 25 percent of the legitimate population. If it's pumping 100 percent of the population today, the state is spending 28 billion today before the situation that awaits us when the normative costs increase and so on. So if we really think it should target 100 percent of the legitimate population, then the numbers don't fit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Schillerová is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the YES movement will support the proposal. We have only one amendment there, which I assume will not cause any problem for any of you, should not - it is logical and makes sense. And we support him, we consider it meaningful. Again, it's on the chassis prepared by the former government. I'm glad there's been an extension in this direction. Just allow me, Minister, through Madam Vice-President, to recall a little nostalgic memory when we were here discussing the compensation bonus from the Ministry of Finance workshop under my direction, as he was going through several waves and as you here very vehemently reminded me and read the fates of the people who did not reach it when we proceeded in the second wave to selective selection of affected entrepreneurs. As you said at the time: But that's not enough, and here I'm going to read to you, and I'm going to read it to you -- so I've been giving stories to InstaStories all last or last week, of course, in an anonymous form after the consent of those people, the stories of people who write exactly the same thing to me about your selective -- through Madam Vice-President -- about your selective help, and when they tell me that they can't reach it, or they tell me that in 80 over there, they're not going anywhere from Upper Forest. So that's all I remembered in such a nostalgic way. And Mr Kaňkovský's words that it is probably not entirely final, that it will probably not be able to end, so we know that. We've known that for a long time, we're just gonna give help to a very small percentage of people here. Still, we'll support it. This is what we wanted as additional help, our government. But that it doesn't help and that it doesn't solve the problem in society, we even agree on that, as I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, Madam President, for keeping time. I am merely reminding all other colleagues: ministers can be addressed directly, not through the President. That'll save you a few words. Thank you. Now Mr Aleš Juchelka is once again registered for a factual remark, or he has checked out for several times. Okay, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u64	I have a brief remark on the opening hours, since we're so practical. It's really Monday and Wednesday until 5:00. Otherwise Tuesday, Thursday, Friday is until 11:00. So in the afternoon, please all citizens who would like to go to the employment office and make their contribution to housing, to do so only on Mondays and Wednesdays, because then there will be no possibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With the factual remark of the Member, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u66	Thank you so much for the floor. I would only like to respond to the office hours that have been heard here from the Minister's mouth. I would just like to say that the office hours... or there is a government resolution on government bodies, where minimum office hours are designated on Mondays and Wednesdays. And now I think it's about the meeting of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with the Director-General of the Labour Office to appeal to him to extend these office hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, too. The Minister wants to respond? He doesn't want to react, okay. However, Mr Marek Novák wants to respond. Your point of order, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. I understand the Minister's office hours made him laugh. However, we should be aware that help falls on people who are going to work, so those people you are laughing at here, Minister, will have to take a vacation and go ask for a dose if they don't have remote access to handle it digitally. If that's funny to you, laugh, you've got cameras here. I don't think it's funny.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I ask, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. So I conclude the general debate and ask whether there is interest in the final words? The Minister is not interested and the rapporteur is also not interested. In this case, we will open the debate in detail. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is enrolled in a detailed debate and the rapporteur and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. I hereby apply to the amendment, which is under number 257, and it is really just a small change: the 'can', but it will 'enlarge'. To make that promise to those citizens, or that the government really means it, so that we can promise them that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, too. Next is Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u72	Once again a good afternoon or rather a late evening. I would like to sign up for my amendment under the number of House document 253. It's already been announced. During the discussion with representatives of social services providers, civil councils and some others, we have come up with another group of people who would fall out of the system, and these are people who use their permanent housing - and I stress permanent housing - recreational buildings. I stress that it must be owners from the diction of the amendment, here it is not possible for it to be a form of sublease relationship, and there are relatively strict hygienic-epidemiological requirements for what recreational housing must meet. That means, I'm already saying in advance that it can't be some garden house without access to drinking water, some object that doesn't have a toilet and other facilities. This means, we dare to suggest an extension of this seemingly not very large group of people. They are mostly some seniors or people who may have had some problem in terms of a failed partnership and so on, and they are permanently living in a residential building where they have permanent housing. So, we dare to suggest that as part of the extension of the legal titles of possible legitimate applicants. As far as budgetary implications are concerned, it should not really apply to a wide range of people, because the conditions are relatively strict. That means that the additional costs should be in the tens of millions order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, too, and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will now perform. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u74	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, as I have announced, I would now like to present in a detailed debate an accompanying resolution on which we will then vote immediately when we vote on the whole bill, and I would like to present to you this detailed resolution here: [[16.50 hours]] "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I. instructs the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka to provide capacity offices of work so that they are ready without queue to arrange for processing of aid under rising energy prices, at the same time to prepare an Internet interface so that interested parties can order to the Office for a specific time and to send pre-filled documents for processing online; II. obliges the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to provide sufficient financial motivation and evaluation for the workers of the labour offices, in particular in the light of the fact that, according to the Minister's observations, they will still be in addition to their normal duties to call for any adepts who might need this assistance; III. obliges the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to submit detailed data on the number of applications submitted and subsequently processed after days and regions to all club Presidents each Monday before the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; IV. At the same time, it also requires the submission of a detailed methodology according to which the labour authorities will call for potential beneficiaries of this aid.' And now, on the basis of communication with the Minister, I have taken the liberty of giving one more accompanying resolution, and that is that "we are ordering to deal with the Director-General of the Labor Office for the expansion of office hours" because office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays until 11:00 do not seem sufficient to me at all. So I am handing over this accompanying resolution to the Vice-President of the House and I would like to ask that we vote separately on each item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u75	Thank you, too. Am I looking to see if anyone else is enrolled in a detailed debate? It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if the gentlemen are interested in the final words? Mr. Secretary? [[No.]] The rapporteur? Not either. I therefore end second reading of this bill. And now we should decide on how we will proceed. Two amendments have been tabled, which is why we have the options: either we interrupt the negotiations on this point until the amendments are being dealt with, or we have the option - and I therefore ask the rapporteur whether he sees the problem that we would not insist on handing out the amendments, and whether the voting procedure would be able to do without the amendments being dealt with on the table? Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u76	Dear colleagues, I would like to propose that both amendments have been tabled here and have already been recorded sometime during the day, or sometime around lunch in the House system, to propose that we continue to discuss the third reading. And I would also like to propose a procedure that we would vote first in the course of the procedure, Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, then I would have the amendment tabled, then there would have been a vote on the bill as a whole and then accompanying resolutions. Of course, if there is any objection to this within the Chamber of Deputies, we would have to agree to a break and then vote after a written amendment. So for me, I'm putting the motion to vote now, as I suggested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u77	Once again, given that there are only two amendments that have been justified, we all know what this is about, the rapporteur is willing to direct the procedure without handing out the amendments directly to the table, and we could therefore launch, if there is no opposition, we could start the vote directly at third reading. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u78	I would therefore like to ask, Madam President, if we would agree to the procedure proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u79	Yes. We will now vote on what the rapporteur has just proposed. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby, and in the meantime, I'll have you all checked out. I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your registration cards. Now we wait for the numbers to settle. And now we will vote on the rapporteur's proposal. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 183 Members and Members signed in for 169, against no one. The motion was accepted. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate which I hereby open. Anyone reporting for the debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Final words? There is no interest in them either from the Minister or from the rapporteur. There was no motion to dismiss, so we will not vote on it. And now we would like to vote on amendments and possible legislative technical adaptations. I ask the rapporteur, Vít Kaňkovský, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u80	As I have already announced, I would propose a procedure if we had first voted on the amendment by Mrs Jana Pastuchová, then we would have voted on the amendment tabled by me, then we would have voted on the bill as a whole and then we would have voted on the accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u81	Yes. I ask you to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u82	As the first vote, I propose an amendment to Mrs Pastuchová. She represented him in a general and detailed debate with the fact that she, under the authority of the government, for the possible further increase in normative costs according to energy price developments, changed the possibility to an obligation, if I can comment on it this way. The petitioner agrees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u83	Yes. Isn't that right, Madam? [[Yes.]] So we will vote on Mrs Pastuchová's proposal, as proposed by the rapporteur. Initiating vote... [[rapporteur: Opinion.]] Sorry, sorry, of course. I declare the vote (number 19) confusing. I ask the Minister for an opinion and the rapporteur. [[Disagree.]] [[Disagree.]] [[17,00 hours]] We can begin the vote, so we are voting. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 187 Members registered, for 84, against 92. The amendment was rejected. Please, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u84	Furthermore, we would vote on the amendment that I tabled in a detailed debate concerning the extension of the scope of possible beneficiaries to persons who are permanently or permanently living in recreational premises under the given conditions, as I have presented them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u85	The Minister's position, please. [[Agreed.]] The rapporteur? [[Agreed.]] So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 188 Members and Members voted in favour of 185, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u86	This has exhausted the amendments and we could vote on the bill as a whole at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u87	Yes, I beg the Minister's opinion. [[I agree.]] The rapporteur's opinion? [[Agreed.]] So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Newsletter: Read...]] Read it, yes. I will read the resolution, of course, I apologize. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, pursuant to House press 116, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." So now I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 189 Members and Members voted in favour of 188, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u88	At this point, we should still...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u89	Excuse me, I'd just like to say if someone could relieve me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon, and I am now giving the right of priority to Vice-President Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u91	I'd just like to announce that I voted in favour, but I'm on drugs, and I'm late. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. Mr rapporteur, accompanying resolutions are also part of this press. I'm gonna ask you to read them, and I'd like to vote on them. Please. [[Voice off microphone: Questioning votes.]] We have yet to question the vote, thank you. I'm sorry. For this reason, I will vote on the fact that the Vice-President questioned the vote. So I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 23. 189 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 187, against no one. I note that the proposal has been approved and that is why we will repeat the vote. And I ask whether it is necessary for me to read or read what we are going to vote on. I don't see - everyone knows what we're voting on. That means I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 24. 189 Members and Members are registered, for 188, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. And I will now ask you, rapporteur, to take us through the vote on accompanying resolutions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u93	As has already been announced, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has tabled a motion for accompanying resolutions on the law that has just been approved and we have two options at the moment. Either we vote on the proposed resolutions en bloc, or we vote on points. As rapporteur, I propose a whole vote, but I ask the diaper if it wants to take points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u94	I'm gonna ask you not to shout at each other. That means I register that we will vote on individual points. I'm registering an application for a procedure. Please, Mrs Pastuchová, if you wish to propose a different procedure in the case of voting of accompanying resolutions, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u95	I am very sorry, Mr President, I have already applied during the vote before. I would just like to clarify when we are in a legislative emergency, so there is no committee between second and third reading, so the rapporteur, with all due respect, should not express his opinion whether he agrees or disagrees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u96	Yes, the reminder is appropriate, you're right. In any case, I think that there is nothing to prevent us from taking a vote on accompanying resolutions at the moment. I will just repeat, for the record, that there has been a motion for us to vote after the various resolutions to be read. Is there a counterproposal for us to vote en bloc? I can't see. In that case, I will ask you, rapporteur, to lecture us on the various accompanying resolutions, and I will put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u97	I apologize to the House's honored plenary for the wrong procedure. And at this point, we would vote on the proposed resolutions. Firstly, the rapporteur proposes the text: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka to provide the capacity of the labour offices so that they are ready without queue to arrange for the processing of aid in the context of rising energy prices. At the same time prepare an Internet interface so that interested parties can order to the Office for a specific time and at the same time send pre-filled documents for processing online."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u98	The motion for an accompanying resolution has been read. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 25. Registered 189 Members, for proposal 84, against 47. This resolution has not been agreed with. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u99	Another resolution under point 2: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to provide Marian Jurečka with sufficient financial motivation and evaluation of the workers of the labour offices, especially given that, according to the Minister's observations, they will call even possible candidates who might have needed this assistance.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 26. 189 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against 16. This proposal has not been agreed with. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u101	Third resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka to submit detailed data on the number of applications submitted and subsequently processed after days and regions to all club presidents every Monday before the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u102	Thank you. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this accompanying resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 27, with 189 Members registered, for proposal 82, against 37. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u103	Fourth resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies requires, at the same time, to present detailed methodologies according to which the labour authorities will call for potential beneficiaries of this support'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this accompanying resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 28, 189 Members and Members, 83 against 43. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u105	And the last resolution, fifthly: "The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka to deal with the Director General of the Office of Labour for the extension of office hours."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this accompanying resolution? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 29, which is registered with 189 Members, for proposal 84, against 15. This proposal was also rejected. And I am asking, for the record, whether we have dealt with all the proposals for accompanying resolutions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u107	Yes, Mr Vice-President, we voted on all the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u108	I thank you, Mr rapporteur, and since we voted on all the proposals that have been made here... I see you're applying, Madam President. You want a word before I close this point? [[Yes.]] Of course you have a chance to get out. I just wanted to ask what part of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I do not know what woke up such a general cheer when the proposed resolution was read by my honourable colleague, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and I do not understand why you voted against. I will take my experience of the former Finance Minister when we are on our knees - on our knees! - built an online environment for a compensation bonus, otherwise we wouldn't have processed the million applications for some 44 billion at the end of last year. I don't understand why every Monday wouldn't be a statement. I automatically received every Monday, exactly after the regions, information on how many applications were submitted, how much was paid, at what stage. And I certainly don't understand why you rejected the extension of office hours. That's all possible. Just so the citizens know what you're so amused about and what you've just, as the people say, nailed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u110	I also register here an application with the priority right of Mr Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u111	Thank you for the floor. I just really wanted to fix it. We didn't refuse to expand the opening hours. We rejected the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which you wanted to micromanage the minister of this government to meet with an official. I understand that this could have worked in your government, that individual people's meetings were dealt with by the Prime Minister, but the idea that the state would work the way one person will deal with it, whether it's the Prime Minister or that the Chamber of Honor will deal with such things that it will determine who it's supposed to meet, so we're not really going to fix the state! I think that the members of this government are legal, and there is no need for us to approve decisions at this level of detail, which are not, moreover, foreworded by the committee responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u112	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor. I would still like to comment on the official hours, especially on what has now been said from Mr Michálek's mouth, because he probably did not listen to me during my speech that there is a 1995 Government resolution which says that for the state authorities the office hours are set by this very resolution, Monday and Wednesday from 8 to 17 o'clock. It doesn't apply to local authorities. How many times does he lift me from the chair that it is some towns and villages that are governed by this. But since this resolution is valid and effective, so whoever is the only one who can expand the office hours at the moment is the CEO of the Labour Office, that is why that resolution is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-11-ps2021-006-01-001-001.u114	I, too, thank you for your comment, and given that no one else is reporting, I am done discussing this point. According to the approved programme, we will proceed to the next item
