ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 166/ - second reading First of all, Prime Minister Excellent. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Government, Minister, fellow Members, because of course there is some information circulating on the air, let us begin by saying that these two points, two only items on the agenda of today's meeting, are so crucial that the joint responsibility of the House should be to discuss these two points today and also to vote on them, if this is not a second reading, that is in the case of the second proposal, and I therefore ask the Chair to have this ambition for all five coalition parties to vote in a procedural manner, that is to say that we will also vote on both two thousand in terms of meritorate after 19 or 21 or 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal that will be put to the vote immediately, without discussion, so I call on my fellow Members and colleagues from the lobby. I remind you that we are voting on the fact that we would still have today's negotiations and the vote on a territorial basis after 19 or 21 or 24 hours. So I am opening the vote on this proposal and I am asking who is in favour to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number three, 133 in attendance, for 87, against 43. The motion was accepted. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura for the applicants. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long time we are returning to the press 166. The draft law responds to the Chamber of Deputies approved by the draft state budget for 2022 and the essence is the maintenance of the average monthly rate for state insured persons at the level of last year, that is CZK 1,767 per month, which will save funds in the state budget of approximately CZK 14 billion. Originally in this proposal was the sum of CZK 1,567 for the second half. It was a simple mathematical operation, so the average was 1,767. Given the length of the legislative process, a coalition agreed amendment will be added. It will shift efficiency to August 1st. If approved on 1 August 2022, the amount of the insured person will be reduced accordingly to 1,287 in order to maintain the payment of CZK 1,767 per month and one state insured person. Let's go back to how the number that was originally valid came into existence. The previous government was based on the pessimistic prediction of the Ministry of Health, according to which health insurance companies were to manage in 2021 with a deficit of CZK 50 billion, even more than CZK 50 billion was the estimated deficit in this pessimistic prediction of the Ministry of Health, and that would mean that balances on their accounts would virtually be exhausted. However, this prediction was not fulfilled and last year the public health insurance system managed with a deficit of CZK 13 billion, which means that the main argument for increasing payment ceased to apply. I have up-to-date information on the development of the management of the health insurance system this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u5	I'll ask my colleagues for peace! Alternatively, move your conversations to the foyer if you want to discuss anything else. Please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of May, there were more than CZK 58 billion in health insurance accounts and the result of the management in the first five months of the public health insurance system is plus CZK 6 billion. The refugee crisis we are experiencing is not an argument against the proposal for a reduction because health insurance companies receive payments for refugees who are registered as state insured persons in the system. At the moment the current issue is that 77 000 refugees, mostly women, have found work, which means they pay their own health insurance, including their employers, and this payment is no longer realized by the Czech state and the Czech state budget. When we remember the debate in the first reading, I said that, in my opinion and opinion of the experts of the Ministry of Finance, the income of health insurance from the commercial sector is very pessimisticly estimated, that is, what employees pay themselves and what employers pay for them and what self-employed people pay for. I don't blame anyone, but in the health insurance plans presented by insurance companies for 2022, they expected an increase of 4,5 percent in the premium collection, which increased by 9.3 percent in January to April. All of this, of course, helps to see that the system is still in excess of CZK 6 billion. From these numbers it is quite clear that the concerns that were often expressed here about how to reduce the quality or availability of health care were odd. I just want to remind you that over the last three years, the annual payment for state insured persons has almost doubled, growing from 68 billion three years ago to 126 billion a year. This increase has been financed in a debt manner and is therefore unsustainable in the long term. We must not forget even in these difficult times about sound public finances. The amendment will be presented and I assume that it will probably be introduced by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the VZP and our fellow Member, Philipp, who introduces a substantial and, in particular, systemic change in payments for state insured persons. We have reached a solution in debates with the Ministry of Health, where the same mechanism will be used for the valorisation of payments for state insured persons as used in pension valorization. This system is tested, works, and works well even when high inflation is like this year. We have also discussed this amendment with the opposition. We tried to point out the advantages of such a solution. In fact, the debate focused most on what payment would be in 2023, because the valorisation mechanism should be launched from 2024. I would like to remind you that in debates with health insurance companies, the lower limit for health insurance companies to function properly was communicated to us in order to ensure quality and available medical care, and this limit was CZK 1,850. After the debates, we are finally proposing, and it will be presented in this amendment, so that next year the payment will be CZK 1,900 per month for one state insured person, and if we come out of macroeconomic forecasts, in 2024 the payment should be CZK 1,982 and in 2025 CZK 2 022. I mean, if we approve this amendment right now at third reading and then in the Senate, it will bring about desired stability and, on the basis of high-quality macroeconomic forecasts, health insurance companies can at least plan the extent and quality of health care in the medium term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Now the proposal, because, at first reading, we ordered him to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee, and the committee resolution was delivered as House prints 166/1 and 2, will also be presented by the rapporteur of the Committee on Health by Mr Tom Philipp. Let me just remind you that the debate is not yet open, so factual remarks are not possible, even though one has already been added here. The Member, as rapporteur, will inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, where appropriate, justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after a detailed presentation of the amendment of the law by the Minister, I would just like to say how the negotiations within the Health Committee took place as a committee designated as a guarantee. The first meeting was 25. 7. 2022 and the amendment of the law has been discussed, but no resolution has been adopted on it. [[right: 27. 5.]] The next meeting of the Health Committee, held on 18 May, was an exit meeting of the 10th meeting of the Health Committee, adopted on the Government Bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, Parliament's Press 166, resolution. Following the opening words of the Committee on Health adopted a resolution: It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on Public Health Insurance Insurance Insurance, as amended, House Press 166. It empowers the Committee rapporteur, Mr Philipp, to propose, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, other necessary adaptations under Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. He instructs the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Tom Philipp to present the opinion of the committee to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, too. The vote is called upon by Mrs Válková. It is therefore not factual, but for the previous vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Madam President. On the microphone. It happens to me, it doesn't happen much to me that I have a contradiction between the way I voted and the way he is on drugs, but for the vote number 3, which was about extending the time of the day, I voted against, and I have a say in high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, too. Before I open the debate, I have several apologies, which I will read directly. Mr Metnar apologizes between 9 pm and the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Krejza apologizes for professional reasons. Minister Kupka apologizes between 9:00 and 12:00 for work reasons. Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologizes for the whole of the day for reasons of work, or for reasons of business travel. I am now opening a general debate, which Mr Tomio Okamura has already signed up with priority rights. Mr Špičák, Vice-President Richterová, President Schillerová. Subsequently, several Members have joined the general debate without priority rights. Therefore, President Okamura will be the first to speak with priority rights. Mr Špičák will then be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a government law, that is, the law of the government of Petr Fiala, which the Fialův Government wants to take away 14 billion crowns of public health. Well, take it. They take them away from public health, and this threatens to increase the availability of health care for our citizens. The SPD movement fundamentally does not agree with the deterioration of the availability of care for our citizens. That is why we will not support this proposal. The Government of Petr Fiala recommends that the payment for state insured persons be frozen to the level of 2021. Due to the failure of the Fialův government, hyperinflation is being multiplied in many areas, and the government seems to feel that time has really stopped in 2021. Yes, it was mostly a beautiful year for Petr Fiala's five-police government. The first half of last year, they lied to citizens and voters as they would bring about change, and they fraudulently gained the upper hand and took over the government. At first it seemed that there would be no changes, because even the five-calice continued to covidate terror and counter-constitutional restrictions on freedom. She spit on human rights and stepped on the constitution just like the previous government. But in many ways, there has been a change. Crimes, mafia practices, in the government's party STAN really have no equivalent and what the cause, it really is a criminal pearl. Prime Minister STAN and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan began the government by preemptively and in advance driving the police president out, just because the police president was not going to go for his hand. Ironically, the leader of the gang, where apparently steals what is achieved, leads police officers who investigate his partner and criminals. This is really curious, and Mr. Rakušan doesn't seem strange that he's in charge of those who are investigating his party. The government is now adding public thefts to the thefts in the government's STAN movement. He's going to steal 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies. Talking about money being transferred from one public budget to another in vain is a lie. It's a shameless and impertinent lie. Money in insurance reserves is insurance money. It doesn't belong to the state, but it's insurance money that insured people paid for health insurance. It is money that is collected for use in healthcare. None of the members of the government are talking shit around here. The government is also lying that the law that robs insurance companies - the government law that robs insurance companies - is not discriminatory. It is discriminatory, and it is quite visibly. The minimum advance on insurance premiums for self-employed persons is CZK 2,627. This is the smallest amount that can be paid, but otherwise employees and businessmen pay more than most. But the government intends to pay much less for state insured persons - CZK 1,567. Who are these state insured people? Mostly pensioners, old-age and disabled, or mothers with children and children. I hope that even a government MP will understand that these are groups of citizens who need healthcare - and the SPD wants them to have the best possible health care. It is also a group of citizens who consume health care in most cases, often above average, and some 15 hundred certainly will not cover them. Well, that's what insurance comes from, when we all make up and pay whether we take care or not. However, once again in this logic, it is quite clear that, on the one hand, payments must not be discriminatory and the State has no right to pay less than, for example, tradesmen. The minimum should be the same for everyone. The Fialův Government is reporting directly in the explanatory memorandum that the purpose of the law is to drain reserves from health insurance companies, and that is absolutely unacceptable. The government notes that its theft of money on citizens' health care has no impact on national minorities or on gender equality when we look at your report. Yes, all insured persons, men and women, Čech and Moravák or Rom are robbed. Dear government, but such a concept of equality does not matter to you of the Čech Republic, Moravák and Rom people. Their money that they paid for health insurance belongs to the health sector, and if we are equal, it is true that even the state is not something more and must pay the same minimum as all citizens of this country. Let us also say that if equality were to apply here and the government was to pay as citizens, then even citizens could pay less. Because today, really, all citizens are subsidizing the state. So, dear government, from which part faces right, tell your constituents, businessmen, managers, companies and employees, those who vote for us - of course we are also elected - that while their minimum, which pays, and at all, the amounts that pay, will increase with inflation, the government will, on the contrary, reduce its share. So while they're paying more, the government's going to pay its share less, it's going to lower it. This pseudo-right government, instead of reducing the financial burden on employers and employees, does the opposite. Instead of searching for resources and strengthening them, the government is releasing nonsense from President Pekarová Adamová's mouth: we sell Budvar. Thinking government TOP 09 is: Budvar state makes money, is profitable, so we sell it. I'll give you another piece of advice. You want money? So look at Germany, where governments have shares in profitable companies. Who owns the very profitable, once Czech, company PPL? The German Post Office. While the Czech Post has been loss-making for most of the last years, the German Post has evidently been able to do so and, on the contrary, thrives in the Czech Republic, thus subsidizing German budgets from our money. After all, when we are dealing with gas prices today, the Czech gas pipeline, which has been making money for us in the past, the government has sold to the Němec and other pipelines the Němec have been cleverly building. When the situation around Ukraine subsides, it will be the Němec who will be making more money on Russian gas than today. What about the Czech government? What he's earning, they want to sell, and what he could earn, like the český Post, leads from failure to failure. And if something successful, like the General Health Insurance, you can't sell it, then at least you're trying to tweak it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, shame on you! The SPD will not support this law of the government of Petr Fiala, which you want to tunnel money for the health care of all our citizens. Petr Fiala's government wants to make the availability of health care worse for our citizens. And notice, and this is typical of Petr Fiala's government, that the government is not talking about the ambition to improve health care for our citizens. You're basically just desperately defending yourself that she won't get worse. Is that the government's ambition? After all, every government's ambition should be to improve citizens' lives. [[9.30 hours]] So our movement, our SPD movement, wants to improve health care for our citizens. And for that, it takes money in health care. Of course, these may also be systemic changes, but we have talked about these many times. But there is a need for money in the health sector, given the inflation, to raise costs, to increase the inputs that not only the health sector is accompanying. So briefly and briefly summarized, this government bill on insurance against public health insurance represents a serious threat to the availability and quality of health care for Czech citizens. And I haven't even talked about the government coming forward with this proposal before the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. That means hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian migrants came to our health system. And yet you insist on reducing the money. So now I am not going to discuss the issues of Ukrainian migrants who are first for the government of Petr Fiala, and the government is not helping Czech citizens, it is helping Ukrajinec. But now I'm talking about this actually nonsense, which actually came in time this year, that although there were many more insured people and they are primarily state insured, that is, those for whom the State is paying, so you continue to insist on the proposal that you wanted to reduce health care to Czech citizens this February before the crisis. So, of course, even the first-year-old can figure out that, of course, the money will also be missing because of the inflation. And that's not even gonna hold up the argument about the reserve funds. So, as I was saying, the SPD will never support this proposal. We are against the deterioration of health care for our citizens. And the valorization that you've been talking about here, which, based on the pressure of the opposition, when we're building this law here, and I'm proud to report that we've been building this place as SPD at first reading, because we're fighting to the last breath, we're fighting here not to make health care worse for citizens, we don't want this law that we want to improve health care for citizens. You guys were there, based on the opposition pressure, when we were building this place up, so you came up with this, you wanted to cheer us up by coming up with some kind of valorisation mechanism. Well, you haven't said the parameters that the valorization will have yet. I, of course, expected it. So even after your valorization, which isn't due until next year, it's going to be less, less money in health care than the 14 billion that the government wants to take from there this year. So at all - not to mention the inflation, I'm not talking about the other factors, I'm just mentioning that to make us realize that. So once again, the valorization will not bring about an improvement in the availability of health care, I think that is quite clear and the SPD simply cannot agree with that. Thank you for your attention and, of course, our other Members will express themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u13	It is now registered with a factual remark by Minister Stanjura. I'll ask Mr. Jakob if it's a factual or preferential right. Really? Now, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u14	Just a few notes, then. President Okamura didn't have the numbers when someone wrote him that speech. So let me remind him that in the first five months, the health system, public health insurance, is in profit of 6 billion. President Okamura, through Madam President, we have no public health. We have health care, where there are private subjects, many doctors are private, you know that. We have a public health system. But what did President Okamura propose in his performance? First, as a friend of Putinův's Russia, migrants say that instead of refugees before the war, I am not surprised. He proposes to increase the payment for state insured people, which means even for refugees. At the same time, in his speech, he said that he was proposing to increase taxes on employees and employers. He can then read his speech in the tapestry, and then the President of Okamura does not have to twist his head. He describes it to us as if the state had some money of its own. We only have taxpayers' money, nothing else. So we're talking about managing taxpayers' money wisely. And it's not gonna be 1 567, it's gonna be 1 767. One factual error after another. I'm not gonna answer those insults. But then he used the německý Post Office case. I would ask President Okamura to find out who owns the German Post Office. He thinks it's a state, obviously from his performance. Yes, it's a successful company. Among other things, it was privatized by the state. Long-term, conceptually and for a long time, he cut his share. Yes, it's a successful, profitable company. Imagine his performance here, what he would do if we came up with a similar plan with a similar ambition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jakob is now reporting with a point of fact and will be prepared with Mr Mašek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I would like to point out, in fact, that we are at second reading, where amendments are to be presented. However, Mr Okamura's speech was one lie after another, and I have to respond to those lies. Mr Okamura claimed that the government was stealing insurance money from reserve funds. Lie! What are the facts? So that the state budget was approved, they had to look for savings, and the payments are reduced, which is what we're discussing here. At the same time, the amendment will be loaded here, so when Mr Okamura claimed that the payments would be fixed, it is another lie. Because there will be that amended amendment that did not come under the pressure of the opposition - another lie - because it is written in the government's programming statement. Is there going to be a deterioration in health care? Lie! A huge lie, haunting people. There's no deterioration, there's no risk of health care, there's been a number of accidents. No one needs to be so worried. Another lie: the government doesn't give a shit about Czech citizens. An outrageous lie and another long-term foul of Mr. Okamura. The government is already giving over 100 billion to our citizens in this difficult time, and yesterday it decided on further support. For the state profitable Budvar - another lie! The state hasn't had a dime from Budvar in the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with Mr Mašek's point of fact and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u18	Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I must respond to the Minister of Finance Stanjura, who has rightly told us here that this is not government money, it is the money of all citizens, but this is also about the health of all citizens. And if, in the past governments, we have reached 10 percent of the GDP spent on health care, and now we are putting it back a few percentage points by our proposal, that is, of course, linked to the fact that it cannot maintain the scope of health care, they cannot keep deadlines. And I'm already meeting up at the hospitals with colleagues turning to me and afraid of it. They're worried. So once again, we've reached standard 10 percent of GDP, we're going back. And we agree, of course, with the valorisation machine, but we do not agree with the starting base. Our government raised that foundation to 1 957, I guess I shouldn't be wrong about a crown. And we wouldn't have a problem with the vending machine if the base was right here. This would mean that the care will be maintained in the quality and extent needed for the citizens of the Czech Republic, which we take into our mouths with the fact that it is basically their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Tomio Okamura is now signing up with Mr Tomio Okamura and will be prepared with Mr Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, because the government spasm and how he gets involved in lies, so that's really the highlight. So I quote from my speech because Minister Stanjura made inaccurate remarks, and if this is how the ministry works, which we see, then it's a tragedy. I said, I quote: "So, dear government, from which part faces right-wing, tell your constituents, businessmen, business managers and employees that while their minimum, which pays, and at all, the amounts they pay, will increase with inflation, while the government will decrease its share. This pseudo-right government, instead of reducing the financial burden on employers and employees, does the opposite. Instead of searching for resources and strengthening them, the government is releasing Budvar's nonsense through the mouth of Chairman TOP 09 of Pekarová Adamová." On the contrary, I have criticised and critically commented that the government is not reducing the burden on employers and employees. So don't turn my words around here. The SPD is always against increasing the burden of working citizens. Thanks to the SPD's votes, there was also a rise in the abolition of a super-gross wage, so thanks to the SPD's votes, we left more money in our wallets to decent citizens. We advocate debyrocratisation of the state. So now I've quoted you, I don't need the log, because I don't think it's in it yet. I've got the speech right here. So, on the other hand, I was critical of the fact that the financial burden of employers and employees should be increased and - simply that the burden should be increased. So I was just quoting that to you for your information, so it would be good not to lie about what I said. Another such thing, it's a desperate spit that I'm a friend of Putinův's Rusko. That's really remarkable, you really don't have anything else, because the SPD is known to be... [[Time!]] Okay, I'm applying again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Brázdil is also reporting, Mr Nacher will be prepared, both with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u22	Thank you in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can all agree that the health services in our Republic are excellent. We really belong - you go west, so you know what it looks like. There are many surgeries waiting. Today, when you have a heart attack in Jeseník, you're in Olomouc with a helicopter in your watch, and that's exactly the interval when the myocard won't be damaged. We have excellent health care here, but if the money doesn't go to the health service, we're going to go below 10 percent of GDP, so how are we gonna hold it? Better to say, who's gonna keep the health services afloat? Well, that'll be the people. But they are few, less and less. No doctors, no paramedics. I mean, I understand that money -- money is a piece of paper -- you can heat it up as much as you can -- with metal, I don't think so. But the money is important to keep the health service at that level. And we didn't just stay to keep up. All our people from abroad are coming back to give birth to us, going to the dentist, letting them do everything, everything important because they trust our paramedics. Please, but the money is needed there. Medics can't do it just because they're having fun. They're having fun. Of course - Mr. Jákob, by means of it, says: here he will not fall down to health care, care. Well, I'll tell you for all the paramedics, they're gonna do their best, even if they're gonna fall on their mouths, but the money just needs to be there. I don't want to escalate, I don't want to say that... Money will always be small, but we have to tell each other what's more important. Put it in the road, into some other projects, or take care of the people who work here and want to keep them healthy, especially the paramedics, it's also necessary to put the money. Thank you for letting me out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. I don't want to fix you, but it's Jakob for a short time. Mr Nacher, Minister Stanjura will be ready. We're still in factual notes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was a little provoked by my colleague Jakob with a brief one. I'd offer another point of view here, not just the medical one, and I'll remind you that today, 23. 6, at second reading, we are discussing an amendment that you have, in fact, indirectly voted on in the State Budget Act, where you were counting on these 14 billion. So you voted in March for something we're only discussing in June. I'm saying this fair because I pointed it out in March in my speech. And that seems like a pretty important moment to me, because it was often in the past you who criticized that the previous governments were working in a budget with money they didn't have. And that's what you're doing right now, and that's also an important aspect from my point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u25	So now he is registered with the de facto Mr Tomio Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I've already disproved the first lie of Treasury Secretary Stanjury, because it's written right here. So the minister shouldn't be sitting on his ears, but he's not sitting down, he's doing it on purpose. The other thing is Russia. Yes, we are a patriotic party, which means we are neither pro-Russian nor pro-Chenian, nor pro-brussels, nor pro-American. We don't get any money from abroad for our campaigns, nor do any nonprofit organizations support us. We're doing a solitaire patriotic policy. And since you, your government, are overwhelmed by corruption scandals, corruption, people are complaining about it because millions of people have made their lives worse in connection with the price increase, you've flooded the Czech Republic with your bad politics and the inadaptable migrants, so now you're kicking desperately around. So I won't even talk about it anymore, because the desperate kicking will continue. Perhaps I would just point out that Mr. Redl, who is part of the mob and crime, sponsored the ODS, his family. Yes, the ODS also received a donation. And I'm asking, what was the favor for? That's what Minister Stanjura should tell us. And as far as health care is concerned, of course it's at risk. If you're saying no, tell me how you're gonna solve the dentistry. People don't have dentists or anything, so let's talk about how you guys figured it out in a year. I want you to deal with dentists. Minister Stanjura is from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I also ran for the Moravian-Silesian Region, it is the largest Moravian region, I am half from Moravia, and there is a huge shortage of dentists. We all know that, especially in the border. You guys have been with the government for years, so when you talk about improvement - I mean, I'm talking about improvement, you guys talk about deterioration - figure out the availability of dental care. And if you don't, there's no point in you being in government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u27	Mr Jakob, Mr Jakob, is now reporting with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. I will no longer comment on the populist and other attacks by Mr Tomio Okamura, but I would like to thank colleagues from YES, especially Mr Brázdil, through Madam President, that he is concerned about the financing of health care as much as we all are. That is why there will be an amendment here today, which will set up the indexing, valorisation automatic, and thanks to this, it is a relatively revolutionary thing in the Czech Republic, which will make health funding sustainable, predictable and clear. And thank you for agreeing on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u29	Any further factual remarks, first Mr Tomio Okamura, will be prepared by Mr Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u30	So now you've reminded me of your performance, the chairman of TOP 09 Jakob, who said nonsense about Budvar, because he's here defending Chairman TOP 09 Pekarová Adamová, who said to sell Budvar to sell a profitable profitable Budvar. Well, you said the state had nothing of it for four years, but you forgot to tell B that the state could have taken it, but it didn't. So don't lie here again and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u31	Mr Mašek is also reporting and Minister Stanjura will be prepared. So far, we're in business. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u32	To Mr Jakob through Madam President. Yes, we do not have a problem with the valorisation machine, it is fair, but we want it to be based on the sum of CZK 1 957, or from the amount of this year, which is what we all have touching concern about here, which means the extent, sufficient care for our citizens, so we are able to preserve. I'll have it in my speech in the general debate afterwards, so I don't want to extend it, but we can shorten it if the rating base or the basis for the calculation is set at the level of the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u33	Now Minister Stanjura with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u34	Indeed, Mr Mašek's speech. I understand, I also admitted in my introductory words that the biggest dispute is by the amount for 2023. So let's model it. The sum of 1 967, if we went to her and counted about 6 million state insured people, it's approximately CZK 4.8 billion. It is an amount that I'm sure makes sense to argue with, but it is about 1,1% of the total income of the health insurance scheme. So if we agree to 98.9. I think that's a good match. Yes, you're right, let's argue legitimately, there's nothing wrong with that, $4.8 billion. I'm just saying, it's 1,1% of the public health insurance system. It's a legitimate debate, but it's not fatal, it's not 30%. Those attitudes are not as far away as some performances might seem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u35	It is now registered with the facts, so far the last, Mr Kukla. Not with the last one, but Mr. Kasal will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u36	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about whether or not there's money missing in the health department. Let me give you an example from practice. Vysočina County is setting up five hospitals. And if you look at the insurance funding, and how much the hospitals need, we find that they actually have enough patients, but the insurance companies aren't paying them back anymore. So they've been doing de facto the last month for free. The same applies to practices. If they have more patients, then there are also so-called conjecture items, and those hospitals, doctors are arguing with the insurance company whether or not they're gonna give them the money, even if they've done the care. So no one here can tell me that money isn't missing in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u37	It is now signed up with Mr Kasal in fact, followed by Mr Farhan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I dare to respond to the Minister, through you. Yes, if we look at it with a figure of 4.8, 1.1 percent. But if I'm coming out of what I heard last night, it's not the health department in the air. And if we take a specific practice or hospital, they're going to increase their energy prices and their inputs the same way. And that's like no one's talking about it here at all. We talk about businessmen, we talk about warm at home, but medical facilities, when they have patients there, they have to shine and they have to drown all the time. And those costs will increase significantly. There's not a word about that. So if we're looking at it 1.1 percent, then you're right that it's the minimum of that whole thing. But for those paramedics, it's gonna be a pretty big amount. Because he's a patient driver, gas 50 kroner. They use paper, they use basic things, their inputs increase. That's not what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u39	Mr Farhan is now registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u40	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the floor. I understand your sentence that for the $4.8 billion budget, which you said is 1,1%, it's not fatal. But any billion missing from the public health system can make it possible for hundreds of thousands of patients to enter new medicines, innovative medicines. And for them, Minister, that is fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u41	Before we go back to the general debate, because there is no other factual one, I would like to read a few more apologies that have yet to come. Mr Zlínský apologizes between 10 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work. Mr Výborný 9.40 to 10.50 for working reasons and Mr Jakob between 12.15 and 14.15 without giving any reason. So please, Mr Špičák is now registered with priority rights for the club with the opinion of the club of the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u42	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address the issue on a rather broader scale, because the seriousness of the situation deserves this. So I'd like to start by declaring the so-called mantra, which means recitation. We live in an unprecedented time because there are two, perhaps three crises: pandemic, internationally political, economic and climate-based projections to all areas of our lives. Each area has its own specific rules, such as for illustration: in air traffic, as we see ourselves basically daily, the impacts are seen immediately. In education and health, in fact, with a great deal of distance, but this makes these consequences more serious and very difficult to reparable. In this situation, the Health Department and the handling of this very complicated situation require a comprehensive strategy that is either completely lacking or kept secret from me. Illustrative remark: Three weeks ago, journalists held a conference with approximately thirty so-called influentials from all possible segments of health care. There were directors of insurance companies, hospital directors, former ministers, their deputy ministers, as well as current members of the coalition and opposition, here present colleague Philipp and absent colleague Svoboda. Basically, the message of this conference consisted of such an essentially repeatedly declared sentence that health care does not bloom. So basically, there was a complete match. The consensus was that, in the course of the above-mentioned effects, the quality of care provided and accessibility deteriorated and the issue required a systematic solution. There was repeatedly declared great availability, level, or adequate availability, level of health care in the Czech Republic. I always say that this availability and quality is very difficult to define, and we do not try at all. And as has been said here repeatedly: yes, for all of you, I believe that the availability of health care and quality is great, but look how it looks in Teplice, how it looks in Frýdek-Místek, how it looks in Chomutov. The quality is completely different, and the availability, and I meet it basically every day. For absolutely banal, however, life fundamentally affecting examination, such as echoography of the heart or coloscopy, is also waiting in Prague for several months and in the areas I mentioned, it is waiting almost six months. And I stress that the conference was not attended by ministers for the coalition - finance and health. In other words, they were not willing to admit that they lacked strategies, and they did not feel strong enough to defend their problematic actions. With a few days' distance, I attended a meeting of the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Health, whose outcome was similarly unactionable and non-speaking. And as it happens, I immediately left for a conference on the organization of health care in Israel. And unfortunately, without surprise, I must say that this is a different world. It is a world aware of the problems, a world that is willing to really name the problems and which is also charged with energy to solve these problems. And merely part of the mosaic, but not in any way negligible, 4 billion in any case are not negligible, are the income of health insurance companies where the payment for a state insured person plays a significant role. And in this context, a real reduction in this income is a gamble that we cannot afford at present. [[10.00 hours]] In 2021 alone, health insurance companies dropped their reserves by 19 billion. The health insurance system has been able to absorb crisis spending thanks to the reserves of health insurance companies and thanks to the admirable deployment of most health professionals. However, if the health financing system is to continue to be sustainable, the expenditure incurred by insurance undertakings must correspond to their expected revenue. And that's basically forgotten, and the resort is cut off like no other in its income. Yes, it is true that the balances on basic insurance funds amount to around 26 billion. However, it should be noted that in 2021 these reserves fell by almost 20 billion, and this rate of balanced health insurance system cannot survive by 2023. Of course, the decline in balances on health insurance accounts was due to an emergency situation, meaning essentially the pandemic. The current political situation, the economic consequences are still being reflected in the whole economy, and, in essence, the demands resulting from this will essentially increase, but it seems that, in view of pandemics, it is as if this government considered that this pandemic has disappeared and that there will be no further crisis. But this is the very opposite of the situation, this is a disparagement of the current situation, because the epidemic is already growing again and I dare not estimate the escalation in autumn. So the cost of fighting the covid was, and so they're enormous. Only the General Health Insurance Company has spent over CZK 43 billion on the fight against covid, coronavirus since the outbreak began. Basically, as an illustration of the fact that this epidemic has fundamentally influenced our lives, it is that, despite the seeming retreat since the beginning of the year, since the start of the new government, almost 5,000 people have died of covid, it is simply a huge number, at a time when we have available vaccinations, when drugs are available, and when, for part of that time, antiepidemic measures have been in place. It was canceled without any strategy, what else, and thus the current escalation - and in particular, what will then be in the autumn? The government acts like an ostrich that puts its head in the sand before danger, and essentially gives up its fight against the cod pandemic. Here I would like to mention that Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government has essentially pushed through the corpses in a shortened regime of the amendment to the pandemic law, which has limited human rights and against which a large part of the public has protested. So it was essentially pushed through public resistance with the need to have effective tools and measures to combat coronavirus. I would expect those effective measures to be sought now, and this is not happening at all. What the government has also completely given up, and I would say shamefully give up, is vaccination. Since the beginning of the year, this essentially decreases the frequency of vaccination. So while in the previous government, at least partly, 75 percent of the adult population has been vaccinated, let's say, 75 percent of the adult population has now added just 2 percent and will not be ingested by 3,000 people a day. In doing so, we are committed to taking 10 million vaccine doses a day, and it is already clear that we are not able to pump out. The centres are closing and, in particular, unlike all Western European countries, there is no campaign, and there is no campaign to promote vaccination. I, therefore, when I speak to colleagues from Scandinavian countries, Germany, Spain, it really makes a fundamental difference. So there's still at least a group of completely unscathed, a very large group of completely unscathed seniors, about 300,000, and they're basically adding another group of risky patients, where the protection by the vaccination is losing its effectiveness. So this risk group is essentially increasing and, therefore, the outbreak of pandemics cannot be written into this group in the autumn. In addition, during the covid epidemic, the number of health performances, including very important health performances, decreased significantly, and I am probably the only one who has done so and basically has some real numbers. So, for example, the number of cancer screenings, but also the number of oncological ones, means the life of rescue operations has fallen by about 20 percent and this reduction cannot be reflected in the population's health status and cannot also be reflected in the demands for increased health care costs and will not be able to be compensated. And in this situation, it is essentially proposed to reduce revenue to the health insurance system. I consider it extremely irresponsible. It is true that the government has come up with an amendment proposing an alternative and thought-out, essentially mathematically thought-out valorisation, but in the finals, this valorisation is insufficient. And it is scandalous, in my opinion, that this proposal came up late and after a massive criticism of the original, even more reducing plan. So government laws should go through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings for good reasons. The Minister of Finance has expressed himself in the way that there are therefore no plus 4 billion, they do not play a serious role, and that the important thing is... [[Voice off the microphone.]] ... do not play a crucial role, do not play a fundamental role, and that therefore 98% of the match is sufficient. In my opinion, therefore, it is not sufficient and it was actually possible to achieve a higher agreement between the inter-ministerial and the conduct of the opposition. So the right solution would be for the government to acknowledge its error, in order to recognise that the original proposal was hasty, ill-conceived, and even the current proposal is essentially conducted by an effort very significantly - and it is also in other legal standards - essentially saving, removing everything that the government has introduced YES. So, in turn, the government should withdraw its proposal, redo its proposal, and propose it as a separate law that would go through a high-quality opposition interministerial procedure. The current amendment is rejected by the ANO club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for the club's position. And now, with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, my dear colleagues, it is clearly interesting that the subject of today's extraordinary meeting is that the government coalition at one point - that is such a signicant point - today we will have it - stripping out the annual income of almost CZK 13 billion in the form of EET, which we will also be discussing today, and at the second point, it wants to withdraw almost identical amounts of funding from the health department due to the alleged consolidation of public finances. The fact that this consolidation is a purely marketing move and a five-calice isn't about adjusting the government deficit, I don't think I need to convince you here. We know this already all who have recorded planned deficits for the years 2023 to 2024 amounting to almost 300 billion crowns a year. If I had presented such a plan as Secretary of Finance, that would have been a scream from the ODS economic expert, from Minister Stanjura and so on. Now no one is commenting on this outside of Mr. Kalousek's ex-minister. The subject of today's debate is the amendment to Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance. This amendment is flawed, unreasonable and extremely irresponsible at the moment. Moreover, it is only a purely marketing move towards - as I have already said - the alleged consolidation of public finances, which is a lie, because the investigation into the health of citizens is not consolidation, and at the same time, purely technically, this amendment is just a move from one pocket to another. The five-calice just once again shows that it is unable to adapt to the current situation, act as crisis management and abandon its pre-election rhetoric, even more than half a year after they have assembled the government. [[10.10 hours]] The YES movement took over the Ministry of Health at the end of 2017 in a state - and I don't think I'm exaggerating here when I say clinical death. The Ministry of Health was underfunded in all respects, from the salary of medical personnel, doctors and nurses, I am talking about hospital equipment and their financial condition, when we had to delay individual Czech state hospitals. I am also talking about the state of public higher education in this area, which governments in which, for example, the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala was present did not deal with in the past. And, of course, I'm also talking about payments for state insured people. No five-calice party has dealt with systemic health reforms in the last decade. No one has addressed the problem that a large part of our high-quality health professionals go to the surrounding countries every year, primarily Germany, Austria, and how to tackle this problem systemically. The causes of this condition may be obvious and intuitive, but the solution will no longer be so intuitive. And this problem was left to us and waited for us. Until our former minister Adam Vojtěch embarked on solving system problems that have been delayed for decades. Problems that did not have an easy and fast solution. Our movement, without even knowing that the biggest global health crisis of modern history is already knocking on the door, has deprived health care of the onset of the global pandemic much better than a number of previous ministers and governments who have alternated this resort as hot potatoes. In 2017, when we took over this resort, the payment for state insured persons was something above CZK 900, namely CZK 920. And we gradually increased this payment to 969 crowns, 1 018 crowns, 1 567 crowns, 1 767 crowns and finally to 2022 crowns to 1 967 crowns. Our movement has understood that it must adequately evaluate our doctors and doctors. Our movement understands that, given the increase in health care prices, medicines, technology, but also the aforementioned increase in health personnel' salaries, which is a step absolutely necessary to ensure these workers not only a dignified life corresponding to the indisputable demands of their profession, but also to prevent the mass departure of high-quality labour from the health sector abroad. The increase of these payments for insured persons was necessary due to the original underfunded state of Czech health care. I'll say the total amount of money for the comparison. In 2016, CZK 62,3 billion went to the state insured, CZK 65.3 billion in 2017, CZK 68.4 billion in 2018, CZK 71.8 billion in 2019, CZK 97.3 billion in 2020, and CZK 127 billion in 2021. And for 2022, we planned CZK 138.9 billion. The total payment for the state insured was nearly CZK 130 billion in 2021, because it was absolutely necessary in the past time to resolve the complicated medical situation, the global pandemic, but also in terms of the remuneration of medical personnel. Today we are watching something that we already know intimately. Our movement has consensually increased the payments for state insured people so that we can settle the debt in the system created by the previous governments. These governments, in which plus or minus were representatives of the five-wheelers, not all of them of course, but certainly ODS and others, so they increased the total payment for state insured persons between 2007 and 2017 by less than 18 billion crowns. Ten years from now. And then he's not supposed to be underfunded. We increased the payment for state insurance companies by almost CZK 75 billion. And a global pandemic has come into this development. The first day of March 2020 at 16 p.m. was confirmed in the Czech Republic by the first cases of SARS-CoV-2. The raising of payments for state insured people reflected the financial demands of health care and responded to current developments. This increase was justified as a result of the current situation. Our goal was clear - to ensure high quality of health care and to protect the health of Czech citizens. As a result of declining inflation, the logic of increasing the payment of state insured persons only increases. This increase will have a significant impact on the height of the costs of health establishments. For this reason too, the reduction of payments for state insured persons is a completely illogical step. milý vláda, you do not realize that almost 16% of inflation will be reflected in the annual increase in electricity by 30.8%, natural gas by 49,2 %, heat and hot water by 17.8%, aqueous by 5.3 %, coiled by 6.4 %, but fuel prices by 47,8 %, food as well as medical supplies. [[prices]] I note that saving for health care for pensioners, mothers for maternity, careless children with 14 billion crowns is a gamble with a fragile medical situation. I am threatening that there will be no funding for innovative treatment, biological chemotherapy, and that treatment of rare diseases will be reduced. koneckonců all, my colleagues, who are trained by doctors and experts in this area, also talked about it. All the more I regret that the Minister of Health is not here with us today, that for the first time, where my memory reaches, there is the Minister of Finance. I understand it has something to do with the finances, but most of the doctors are here. The forecast revenues of the public health insurance scheme from the state budget account for around one third of the planned revenues in 2022. The public health insurance system managed the deficit of CZK 12.4 billion in 2021, including in view of the increase in compensation for state insured persons. If Petr Fiala's cabinet had not changed the amount of the payment for the state insured, there would probably have been a re-decide in the public insurance system. I would therefore like to point out that you are withdrawing funds from a system that has been predicted to be loss-making this year, and these quantifications do not reflect the wave of our refugees that occurred after the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. [[10.20 hours]] A close link with the negative balance of the system is the development of financial reserves of the system, which are planned to have a significant year-on-year decline. Today, it is likely that reserves may be exhausted. According to experts, three health insurance companies are currently at risk. It is therefore quite clear that the current five-calice is going to decimate the financial background of health insurance companies, which I would like to know how it intends to deal with. I hope that not by charging health care, or even privatising health care facilities - these are the things that we will always, as an ANO movement, play very hard and fight against; that this has nothing to do with the various statements made by some representatives, I repeat, by some representatives of the five-calice, on the topic of privatisation which has been raised in recent days. The health insurance union declares that they simply can't afford any more unplanned expenses. On the contrary, they will have to make the most of their savings in the upcoming conditions. So I don't know about you, fellow Members, but I don't think I've had a very good opinion of maximum savings in terms of health care. It is therefore a question of whether the five-callice government is preparing the ground for the steps that I was talking about a moment ago. We've witnessed this in the past. We have witnessed the imposition of visits to doctors, and this has discouraged Czech citizens from solving their health problems. In this period, for example, health fees have deterred patients, in the past period, who have used first aid medical services, and have decreased by up to 80 percent. And as a result of delaying visits to doctors, there has also been a reduction in the seizure of serious diseases, the subsequent treatment of which is significantly more costly than the cost of early detection. The five-calice has declared - and here I stress, nothing against it - the provision of health services to refugees in our territory. The Lex Act of Ukraine has assigned them state insurance status, which means we have hundreds of thousands of new state insurance companies here at the moment. We agree with this step, helping is to be done. The Cabinet of Petr Fiala has our full support in this step. But we must say that reducing payments for state insured people is not a reasonable step either, because a large part of Ukrainian refugees will need higher health care than an average Czech citizen. The current five koalice government does not perform health screening of Ukrainian refugees at all, even though we know that there is a large number of diseases in Ukraine that we no longer have in the Czech Republic, and even vaccination is not as high as in the Czech Republic, which are quantities that should clearly enter into the conversion of the level of contributions for state insured persons. And that, again, is the argument for the preservation of our proposed amount of the state insurance fee. I appeal again, do not sacrifice the quality of health care provided in the Czech Republic! We are not talking about anything less than the health of Czech citizens at the moment, of course, even those who live in the Czech Republic. Please keep this in mind today, when you will move this amendment to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too. Now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur, Tom Philipp. Mr rapporteur, your factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u46	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to speak to Mrs Schillerová. You said here that this government took over the devastated health care, or something like that was the formulation. I'm sorry if that's not accurate. Please note that you were in government before. And unfortunately, I have to say this again, I was the Deputy Minister of Health Insurance at that time, and the fights, the real struggle at that time with the Minister of Finance, Mr Babiš, through Mr Babiš, who is not even here to look at this debate at the moment, were so cruel. We fought every year to see if he'd give us an extra 50 crowns on the state insurance company. Then, even once, a special law had to be made, where funds were saved at the SÚKL. It was, I guess, a billion or a billion and a half, I don't remember exactly, until he forced us to do it. Every year, endless fights. We have always explained that there is a need to add funds to health care, that there is a need to add funds to health care salaries. He was always deaf to it. And now you're gonna tell us that we're the ones who are devastating the health services here. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. Mr Kamal Farhan will now appear, followed by Minister Stanjura and then by President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u48	Madam President, I did not want to speak, but I must respond to my previous speaker, Mr Tom Philipp. I was also in that ministry at the time, we had those offices, by your means, Mr President, side by side. And I just wanted to say, you were there in the government. You, Mr. Ambassador, told Mrs. Schillerová that you were in that government, but we were there with you, with the people's side. So you were there with us, and you're actually responsible for that with us. Well, I just wanted to remind you. Not only were we there, but the people were there with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Minister Stanjura, I'm sorry. And President Schillerová then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u50	I was also interested to hear that President Schillerová said that in 2017, they took over the health care in the state of clinical death after four years of the reign of the ANO, the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL movement. I don't forget how the coalition was. So let's see what were the payments for state insured persons in total at a time when their chairman was the Minister of Finance. Perhaps President Schillerová could tell us here: 60 billion, 62. And when we propose 127, it's a disaster. Then you need to put it in some context. Look how payments increased in percentage terms in the years when Andrej Babiš was the Minister of Finance. Sweep your own doorstep. I wouldn't be so hard at assessing the health results of the government you were in. You were a lot sharper than me. But if someone got the health services in terms of financial terms into the state of clinical death, it was Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. That's what you have to say. Those aren't my words, but those are Alena Schillerová's words. And just for the honourable Member, I think Mr Farhan was here. I don't think the offices next to each other are through anyone. I don't think we need to overdo it. You didn't call anyone. I've never heard of anyone having an office next to someone through Vice-President Bartošek. Unless it was in his house, and he made a lease with both of you on those offices. Then it would be through him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u51	Now, President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u52	I have the numbers, Minister. We've got them here. I'm sure we have the same numbers, 100%. I'm getting numbers and Treasury statistics, so I'm sure we have exactly the same numbers. I wasn't in that government, but I'm not making excuses. The YES movement was in the government, and it didn't have a majority in the government, where it was with KDU and social democracy. But since you already have the numbers, that was the moment the state insurance payments started to grow. I have the numbers here, when in 2014, and it still went, the trajectory still went up, and the most they grew, of course, at the time when the government had the YES movement, which came in 2017, had its Minister of Health, and there the increases are dramatic. Like I said, in that time, the increase is 75 billion, if I said the number, now I'm looking for it fast, I said it in my previous speech. But it never happened, whether we were in the government where we had the majority, or we were in the government where we didn't have the majority, there was also KDU, so we pushed it together, as the MP and President Philipp rightly said here, through you, Mr Vice-President, but we never took money. Never. Never a billion. The money was still growing. And that I would come or one of us would come and take 14 billion after such a medical crisis, I can't imagine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. First Mr Vít Kaňkovský and then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u54	Good morning, Mr President, colleagues. I would also react briefly to the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Alena Schillerová, through you. It needs to be put into context. Indeed, the YES movement was in both previous governments. Indeed, there has been an increase in payments for state insured persons since 2014. But you have to say the peace. At the time of the first government involved in the ANO movement, these were ten crown increases in one state insured person in the years, which can be traced. And it was given that KDU-ČSL and ČSSD, as the bulldozer had to push the Minister of Finance to at least make these small increases. And, yes, during the Second Government of the ANO movement, there was a significant leap increase. But why? Because there was a covid pandemic. Until then, there was no jumping increase, again it was only a gradual increase. And then it was said here from both President Schillerová's mouth and from Professor Špičák's mouth that there was an amazing change in Czech health care for Minister Adam Vojtěch. So come to the countryside to see how many practical doctors we lack, how many dental clinics are vacant, how many are vacant ambulances of children's doctors. And that's not the government's fault, it's the previous government's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Now, Minister Stanjura, President Schillerová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u56	So I'll make a prognosis and we can evaluate it in January. I will see how the volume of payments for state insured persons increased, for example, between 2000 and 2014, 2015. I'm sure between 2022 and 2021 the increase will be higher than when Andrej Babiš was Minister of Finance. Let's evaluate it in January when we'll have the numbers in a whole year. We're not taking any money, we're just correcting your fatally bad estimate, instead of admitting that you completely overshot it, that your estimate that last year's health insurance system would end up with a $50 billion deficit, it was 37, it was completely unqualified and wrong. That's all we're talking about. If you hadn't made such an unqualified estimate that you say "we have to build on" today, read your own statement while you were lifting it, as you explained. This was not justified by increased care, that there will be more dentists, that there will be more district doctors. The only reason you and the former Minister of Health mentioned was that there was a risk of a fall of 50 billion. I was rather reluctant about the evaluation. But if you're still referring to it as the right number, the number was completely wrong! And just when I'm talking to the public budgets and the consolidation, let me surprise you. I merely remind you that you, Madame, through the Vice-President, have had the deficit of 500 billion approved twice. In two years, 1 trillion! You defended this place, negotiated with the Communists, were willing to make concessions to the Bolsheviks to get two budgets approved with a total deficit of CZK 1 trillion. As many can tell us and advise us on the consolidation of public finances, but you can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Now, President Schillerová, after that, Mr Jiří Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u58	Mr Kaňkovský, through the Vice-President. You shot yourself in the leg. A person who doesn't mind here - a social service fighter - that there's $4.5 billion missing today, that there's nothing to do about it, that there's a risk of collapse. You, who yelled at me here when there was a $100, $200 million missing - in your opinion, I don't think so - are you going to argue about when they grew more today? There's been a rise in payments for us! And you can say it any way you want, while the YES movement was in the government, payments went up. Trajectory was slower, then it accelerated, there was a covid. And as for the consolidation of public finances and estimates. That estimate, Minister Stanjur, was made by insurance companies. It's not like you're fighting an invisible enemy. You're failing, and you have specific individuals here, I mean refugees, and you're unable to estimate anything. So when you fight an invisible enemy, it's much, much more complicated. I'm not gonna make excuses, the estimate was what it was, and I'm glad we were able to draw less from the state budget in the end. But I don't think your consolidation is going very well either. I can't imagine preparing for consolidation where the deficits grow. That would be screaming! Of course, the government hasn't approved it yet, we'll wait, and we'll definitely meet many more times on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u59	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared by Mr Kamal Farhan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u60	I would also like, through Mr President, to my colleague Kaňkovský, whom I very much appreciate and with whom we have been on the Health Committee in the past period, there has also been Mrs Richterová, through Mr President, and we have all been there to improve as much as possible the scope and availability of care, the availability of innovative medicines, the improvement of cancer treatment, and so on. You've all been raising your hands to make sure there's a proper increase in funding. Now you're in the opposite role, you're under pressure from your finance minister, and you're forgetting everything. And yet here you are arguing, Doctor through Mr President, that in the result: come and see the countryside as there are no doctors, dentists and so on. So you think we can help with these cuts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Kamal Farhan will now make a point of fact, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. I will comment on Mr Kaňkovský, through you. I'll use the same words, put it in context, why doctors are missing practical or others today. The previous government has increased the number of students in higher medical schools, first of all, which will increase the number of new doctors. But we both know it takes up to ten years to raise a doctor. So let's put it into context, who should have started it. And I'd be happy if someone introduced me - first, second, and third - some points so that there would be enough doctors today, as the government, which, if I'm not mistaken at the time, was the Minister of Health Heger for the TOP 09, and at that time it was the ODS government. So she was supposed to take the steps in ten years, not the previous government. She made them, increased the number of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and after him, with a factual remark, Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u64	I am only briefly to Mr Kamal Farhan, through you. Yes, it really is a long-term problem. But this increase in the number of students at medical faculties was actually carried out by the previous government, but the previous government, in which there was ANO, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL movement, was planned, and it was then Deputy Minister of Health Tom Philipp - not Philipp, as Mrs Schillerová says, but Tom Philipp, sitting here. [[to be said with P]] [[with F]] [[Mrs Schiller apologises to Mr Philippe from her post.]] So we need to put it into context. And to President Schillerová. Yes, you're taking me to your mouth regularly. You were not on the Social Policy Committee yesterday, where we included the point of "financing social services." And we don't need the opposition's pressure to do that, just like I did in the last parliamentary term, when I was actually standing here. But I never yelled at you. I can sing quite loudly, I won't do it here, but I never yelled at you. However, I said very strongly here that there is a need to finance social services, and it was in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021. That's what happened. But the current government coalition is discussing the financing of social services and yesterday it fell from the mouth of Minister Jurečka that the financing will actually take place, the financial corridor has been mentioned, and I am convinced that by the end of June and the region will know the specific amount. And we don't need a challenge from the opposition to do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Now, Minister Válek, Mr Vít Vomáčka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Mr President. With those students, it really was Deputy Philipp. How do I know? I was the head of the Association of Academic Boards of Medical Faculties at the time. The dean - he was the dean of the second medical school - we were dealing with at the time. The negotiations were conducted by Professor Dušek, who initiated the analyses and statistics. If anyone wants to get acquainted with that history, I'd be happy to introduce them. It was a long run. Several ministers had to be convinced gradually, it was not easy. Finally, it succeeded, and it was the responsibility of the Minister of Education at the time, because the Minister of Education had to increase the numbers, because universities do not belong to the Minister of Health but to the Minister of Education. [[10.40 hours]] And, of course, I could talk about what went wrong here, what went wrong. You know I'm a long way from criticizing my predecessors here because I think it's an undignified adult person to say what he's doing right or wrong to lean on what he's ever done right instead of saying what he's doing right or wrong. After the battle, every general is. On the other hand, I am preparing to perform if we continue this way, where I would like to introduce you to the fruits of psychiatric care reform - the exhibition cabinets of the previous Ministry of Health management. Let me tell you how much the reform cost a few billion, how much the number of psychiatrists has increased, how the availability of psychiatric care has improved, and how ingeniously the financing of the CDZ has been invented. And as the CDZ, in a really perfect way, as planned perfectly, will be a hundred within three years. Well, I'd be happy to tell you, we can talk about it. And all of us who were sitting on that health committee and who were there with the Social Affairs Committee, we remember very well that everything that we pointed out happened, unfortunately, and we are now bearing the unfortunate consequences. And the only thing that's certain is how $4 billion went up the chimney. And I'm not criticizing it. Because those who triggered it couldn't have known they were triggering something that wouldn't work. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Vít Vomáčka will now be prepared by President Alena Schillerová with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we have been witnessing a firefight for about three quarters of an hour now for you old men here in the Chamber of Deputies, and we newcomers are looking at it a little suspiciously, and we think that this House does not deserve to feel guilty about what we are back then, who we are, how we are. I think we're facing a health insurance issue here today. The government's coming up with something. I do not question the clear right of the opposition to constantly control, to comment on this and so on. However, I guess now - and now I look into the eyes, through the President, Madam President Schillerová - this government is budgetaryly responsible, and so does it. I don't know if you've noticed today's information that Sri Lanka's economy has collapsed to date. And I wouldn't want this to collapse our economy like this because of your constant handout, because it's not from some kind of fund-raiser, that's what we need to borrow first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, too. And now, with the factual remark of President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u70	Well, thank you. Ambassador, I am not a gentleman of the Chamber of Deputies, through the Vice-President, I am here for the first term, as you are. Mr Kaňkovský, just a little something for social services, through the Vice-President. It's not a topic anymore, it's true. You voted - and you will never speak out of this again - in favour of the State Budget Act for 2022, where there is a lack of social services of just over 4 billion, perhaps around 4.5. I've got the graph here, I've got it on my networks. You just can't talk your way out of this anymore. You raised your hand, I didn't. As for the consolidation - yes, we'll go back to health insurance. I very much welcome the presence of the Minister of Health, thank you for it, because it is indeed a health issue. And yes, you're right, we're the sixth least indebted country. But did you look at the trajectory of your government's preliminary proposal, through the Vice-President, of the preliminary draft debt in each year? Of course, it is not yet approved by the government, it is not approved by this Chamber of Deputies, so look at it. The trajectory is up, not down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u72	Not on this bill, but I will continue to speak to my colleague, the Minister of Health. I'm in favour of you criticizing us that the deficits are too big, but let's just say that your brilliant ideas that you're giving here at each meeting, and you're constantly trying to get us to approve it, so the debt would increase by plus 250 billion every year with a conservative estimate. So if we let you manage, today we're talking about some stairs 600, 650. You would then solemnly announce that it is only 590. So that's how it is. It's not part of this bill, but if you don't stop, I'll just defend myself. I have here a very conservative estimate of your crazy 12-point plan, what it would actually mean, what impact was proposed... And you have to choose. Or you don't have to. You are able to say in one sentence that debt needs to be reduced and, at the same time, propose new spending for 250 billion. It just doesn't make sense. But I understand that someone doesn't see it that way, that they don't know it's either or, and they say it's both. I have new spending, I will not raise taxes, but at the same time I will reduce the deficit. Well that mathematically just doesn't work out, it's quite a trivial task, for it you don't have to have a college education in mathematics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. She will speak with the factual remark of President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u74	Now we've turned it into a budget fight, and that's definitely gonna be another time or another time. Well, I'll say thank you for appreciating the genius ideas. You don't have any ideas. Ideas zero. You're making one big zero for people, and your deficits are growing! I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u75	Well, thank you. Given that I do not see any factual point, in that case, with the right of priority, Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for your word. Only to the zero that sounds so threateningly here. I'd like to go back to the public health insurance debate, insurance policy, and the fact that it was the last government that handled the reaction in some way random. And we are the government that wants it to increase predictablely in times that do not face an unpredictable situation, so that there is clear valorisation. Valorisation according to price growth, according to wage growth, valorisation that will allow planning. More importantly, stability. This valorisation is the subject of an amendment introduced by Mr Tom Philipp. So I just wanted to point out, there's really no way that's true what the previous speaker said. The key thing is that we want financial sustainability and, at the same time, predictable stability. Then there's one more thing we want and for which I'm performing, and that's prevention. Preventing things that can be prevented. I think I can agree with many that this is the cheapest option, to prevent some illness, perhaps due to an unfortunate lifestyle, or to prevent the deepening of some kind of trouble, perhaps because people don't have money for a suitable diet. That is why I want to briefly present the amendment, which is prepared hand in hand with the Minister of Health, who is discussed at the level of the Ministry. The point is that my colleague Josef Pavlovic and I have pointed out that the increase in the prevention fund for health insurance companies today is not possible beyond a certain limit until it would be appropriate to increase that limit. What can that practically mean? In practical terms, imagine that where you now receive, for example, a contribution to a sports club for a child from the fund of prevention of your insurance company, and today it takes 500 crowns per year, so if the insurance company decides that the funds will increase and that these amounts will increase, then it could financially go for a contribution of 1,500 a year. The mechanics here, however, is not only about swimming or the contribution to sports clubs for children, but also about the support of really disadvantaged insured people. These are allowances for diets, aids for, for example, diabetics or money for psychosocial support. So the prevention that we're talking about right now is really very broad, and it goes with the possibilities, the range, almost, you could say, to something that should be part of the treatment. That is why it is very important to me and that is why I am very glad that we have agreed on this. [[10.50 hours]] Of course, this option we give to health insurance companies is tuned to cover all the health insurance companies we have here. Today, the possibilities of financing the prevention fund are set differently between VZP and occupational health insurance companies, and the way we regulate it, I think it is very beneficial for insured people, us, people living in this country, and that in the future we will fill one of our points in the programming declaration of our government, namely functional permanent support for prevention, prevention of problems before they arise. Once again, I want to support the colleagues we've been working with on this thing. At the same time, I apologize for the following debate, because there is also a family policy forum today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Now I'll read the apologies. Today from 22.00 to the end of the day, for family reasons, Mr Šimon Heller apologizes, and today between 15 and 18 pm, Mrs Milada Voborská apologises for work reasons. We will now proceed to duly entered into the general debate. Mrs Karla Maříková will be the first to speak and Tom Philipp will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a government bill on insurance against public health insurance, which the government reduces payments for state insured persons from CZK 1,967 to CZK 1,567, i.e. CZK 400. By reducing payments for state insured people will go to health this year by CZK 14 billion less, so the quality of health care is threatened and, of course, this brings with it the risk of its reduction. The government, through the amendment to be loaded here today, is about to submit an automatic valorisation of payments for state policy holders based on inflation. We certainly agree with automatic valorisation as such, but the government comes up with this after reducing the payments for state insured persons. If, according to the forecast, the payment for state insured persons will rise next year, it will amount to CZK 1 878, which is less than the original amount of this year before the reduction of CZK 1 967. According to the proposal for valorisation, next year the state would take 3.4 billion less than it should have gone this year. The state pays state insurance for approximately 5.9 million people. State insured persons are, for example, children, pensioners, beneficiaries of parental allowance, women on maternity leave and persons on parental leave, job seekers, persons dependent on the care of another person in the second, third or fourth degree and persons caring for such persons, prisoners, but now also refugees from Ukraine, whose number the government does not actually have an accurate overview. We are therefore at a time when our health care is facing a greater burden, as the number of state insured people is increasing with refugees from Ukraine. This step by the government is a significant threat to the quality and availability of health care and cannot be agreed with. Reductions in payments for state insured persons at a time when insurance companies will pay for last year's care will likely lead to a decrease in health insurance accounts after years. For a military insurance company, this may also mean that, at the end of the year, it will be forced to start delaying payments to providers by a few days, as the Health Daily said. The new automatic payment mechanism for state insured people will certainly help insurance companies and health professionals to plan better care, as they will know what amount they can work with next year, but come up with this after a reduction in payments is a serious alibiism. In 2021, insurance companies were in deficit of almost CZK 15 billion. There was a covid here, but now we have a war on Ukraine and refugees again. The Czech Medical Chamber itself and its President Milan Kubek criticises the fact that according to the proposed valuation, payments for state insured persons will reach CZK 2 000 until around 2025. Moreover, the Valorisation Mechanism is set up to reduce the proportion of the State's payments to the general income of the public health insurance system and to increase the economic problems of our health care in proportion to that. Saving health, and thus the health of our citizens, is the worst where the government could have wanted to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, too. Mr. Tom Philipp will be next. Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me speak to Amendment 166, Amendment 988. This amendment addresses two issues. The first thing is such a short one, it is the freezing of payment for state insured persons at an average value of approximately CZK 1,767 per person per month. This will be achieved by paying the original amount in the first half of the year and in the second half of the year, respectively from 1 August 2022, the amount lower, roughly CZK 1,500. The second part is serious. My previous speakers have spoken about it several times. It is the part that introduces regular valorization, which means some stable moment, which Czech health services have been looking for for thirty years. It will be a regular valorisation, which will be linked as well as the valorisation of inflation pensions, while being linked to real wages. For inflation at 100 percent, for real wages at 50 percent. This system is very beneficial for health care, but also for the state, because both health, both the resort and the state will know how much it will be in the coming years or in the next year, or what costs the state will have to invest in the Czech health care in the form of payment for its roughly 6 million state insured people. Because the year 2023 and the inflation are very turbulent at the moment and we do not have an exact prediction of what the result will look like, we decided as a coalition to go the way of this amendment and excavation payments for state insured people, from which it will then depend on increasing to CZK 1,900 per month and one insured person. It is, of course, a compromise. I understand that the amount could be higher, on the other hand it could be lower, so it's something we think together within the coalition that it's establishing a solid way, or a solid excavation line from where we're going to valorize. At the same time, it is tolerable in terms of the state budget, because we want to act as a responsible government that does not want to indebt this state more than is absolutely necessary. So please understand that this long-disputed amount of CZK 1,900 is optimal from both the state and the health sector, something that is bearable and will ensure the stability of this system in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, too. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask my previous speaker: I listened carefully to you. You said it was a compromise. Whose compromise was that? Compromise only the ruling coalition or the opposition? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Please, the rapporteur with a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u84	Mr President, I will respond by your help to a colleague who was a previous speaker. It is, of course, a compromise that we have tried to make with the opposition, but given that the opposition has a completely different approach to the state budget and to dealing with some of the situations that have now occurred, it is then a joint proposal that gives the coalition. Who gives the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Berenika Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u86	So, as I understand it, you've been conducting some negotiations with a part of the opposition, looking for a compromise solution, you haven't found that, and the insurance companies have been invited, of course they've brought theirs into it, and they've agreed to this, they've agreed to the model that you're setting up here. [[11.00 hours]] I just want to see the insurance company that says she wants less. I really don't believe that. I can't believe the insurance company said it would agree with the model that you have here, that, in essence, what my previous speaker said, and it was said here and it was said several times, that it would suddenly decrease the GDP that is hard to get, or the amount that is bound to GDP, so that it would decrease. I'm more interested in this. So the compromise is all yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mašek's point of fact, and after that Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u88	I'd like to comment on the opposition negotiations. I was involved in a meeting. I don't know how many. There, we made it clear that we would be happy to support the valorisation mechanism if the base was at CZK 1 967 as it was in the first half of this year. Because then it's a guarantee that the funding will hold. Another comment on the health insurance companies. So the VZP is really better off, but for example for two hundred and eleven already such a reduction can be a major problem. In that spirit, I also picked up some articles and statements from the director of this insurance company. So I think that those 4.8 billion crowns of the difference between the current proposal of the five-calice base and the possible identical proposal across the political spectrum at the level of 1 967 crowns, I think it is worth considering, and I would consider it very helpful and necessary for the further operation of the Czech health care system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Now, then, the Minister and his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u90	I will try, Mr President, to be as rational as possible. This means, of course, that I discussed the proposal with the Board of Providers on the one hand, the Board of Providers did not change more or less from the Board of Providers, which was compiled by Minister Vojtěch. Dr. Dvořák is still the chairman of the supply board. That's the one the Minister Vojtěch appointed. I, when it comes to quality people, have no reason to change and fire anyone. I have also discussed this with the Scientific Council of the Minister of Health, where some of your colleagues are sitting for the ANO movement. I very much appreciate that they have accepted membership of the Scientific Council. I also discussed it with the insurance association. The amount of CZK 1,900 is the amount that they very much welcomed. They also welcomed the valorization formula. The last time we discussed this, I believe, the day before yesterday at the Board of Providers, where we discussed that the Board of Providers together with the representatives of insurance companies - Mr. Deputy Bodnár was there and the head of the association of those other insurance companies - will set up a meeting where they will agree to start discussing the conciliation procedure not in a one-year period, but in a two-year or three-year period from next year. We would like to do so, and we agreed there that the framework, which was based on CZK 1,900, would be fulfilled as soon as possible in the three-year period. As far as insurance companies are concerned, yes, the condition of insurance companies is different, it has always been. Let us remember the previous parliamentary term and the health committee, when the coalition came with a reduction in the number of insurance companies. There was even an idea that there would be only one insurance company. This means, I think, that information on the fact that some of the smaller insurance companies are in poor shape, namely one, should lead the board of directors and the supervisory board to an in-depth check in the insurance company in order to find out what is the reason when the payments are the same, the insured are the same, the choice is the same, so some insurance companies are in very good condition and some are in poor condition. We need to heal those insurance companies that are in bad shape. That's what I think is crucial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mrs Věra Adámková, duly signed up for the general debate of Kamal Farhan. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words on this very important subject, which, of course, is intersecting with the entire health sector. I will not go into economic debates at all, because I believe that the Minister certainly has the economic aspect completely in his hands, and there is no point in talking about it. But, of course, there's healthcare here, and there I dare say it's really a little different. Here are some concerns about the terrain and we need to talk about them and talk about them. Because words look beautiful, patterns look beautiful. One axiom. The YES movement in any case, and here you have heard it repeatedly, of course welcomes valorization. After all, the time of the covid just broke the thread, which may have developed earlier. But that was the situation, and there's no need to talk about it anymore. So I'm sure it is. But, of course, there are some doubts and confusion. And of course, we completely disagree with the default amount. I would really put it all back in the daily bread of paramedics and patients. We are all very often patients, so this concerns us. We need to realise that we are reducing the basis for calculating the valorization, and I repeat again that I am not questioning the formula. I'm sure there could be little things, but that's not the merit of this thing. We're in a situation where I'd just like to say that medical facilities are getting, please, pretty much the money for the job they've done. I'm not going to deal with those who are out of the way of insurance because of course they have other problems and otherwise they're dealing with this situation. Of course, I live in the real world. I already have a vizo from a few - not one or two, but several - directors of health facilities that they look with great concern to the next year, because energy prices, water prices are really rising rocketally and they are already a little bit in doubt as responsible directors and they are making crisis scenarios of possibilities as they would pay or not pay. What's next here is that we have a set payment. Of course, you know that everything is scored. The payment is worth something, that's what arguing is about. Once again, we must fit into the price of that performance, of course, into the payment of the necessary energy, water and so on. And here again is the great fear that it simply cannot be done if the existing, let's say, doctrine, as we continue to do. Then there is another thing that we should, of course, also take into account, and that is how - I just didn't find it, so I'm asking, asking about the terrain, of course, both health professionals and non-medical health professionals are asking about it. And those are the disciplines that are absolutely necessary there please nicely. They're helping professions, but we have to pay for them, too. So they're asking how the assumption here is that they're going to get paid at a time when, of course, all prices for everything are going up. Because if we're staying here at the value of the point that it is, and we don't know that there's a radical increase in the negotiation process, it's a concern that the economic situation is just going to be wrong. So, please, here, if possible, some answers. Because, of course, these questioners will ask whether we have discussed this and we need to do so. I would therefore begin with a specific matter where I will respond to Vice-President Richterová - before events. So the amendment that came in here to increase the prevention fund is very reasonable. Some of us signed it. I'm just afraid he's very theoretical. That if we stay on these financial flows, we're talking a little bit about what we could raise, and that was based on the claim of those insurance companies. Because, of course, by honoring the law, they were bound by options that could put into disease prevention. But I think it's a little theoretical. That we just won't have the money. What do we have to secure here in some way? Firstly, these are contributions to dietary measures, which are actually equivalent to a treatment regimen for certain diseases such as phenylketonuria and celiac disease. Of course, celiacs are increasing as we better diagnose, as there is greater awareness of this disease, and insurance companies, more or less the big ones, the so-called healthy insurance companies, the key insurance companies, contribute to diet measures to these clients. For your information, if we're buying regular flour for 30 now, that's not gonna get under a hundred for the celiac. But he's gonna bake out of her exactly what we normally do. So we're really going to need to increase the insurance companies' ability to pay extra. However, I repeat once again, if of what. Maybe I really think it's becoming a little theoretical right now. Of course, the next thing we have to support is movement activity. Because I'm sure you've noticed that we have a big problem with the risk factor of obesity. And it's not just for cardiovascular diseases, it's for oncological diseases, it's for motion apparatus. But I am really very concerned that, with this low base, we simply will not have anything to do with this, even if the idea is excellent and, of course, the prevention funds are needed. So that's a question that many people will undoubtedly ask me this afternoon. [[11.10 hours]] So the next thing we have to realize is the increase in our state insured people. I repeat, it is a good thing that we provided them with this, of course. Just - and I talk to these people more or less every day - just so we don't get in a situation where we promise them something that we can't actually fulfill afterwards. That's very wrong then. So we really need to think hard about this so that we don't make any more promises than we can. Because the reduction in payment for state insured people - and I must say below the line that, of course, I appreciate the things that led to the increase, we certainly appreciated that in some way. But this seems really inadequate to us, because we are below the sum that was the default, the minimum that could be accepted. So I guess it just doesn't help us raise all the prices. And I just want to point out that our health care is really on a very good level. Of course, he works with the most modern technology, with the most modern tools, and they are bought in world markets, and they are worth something. And, of course, energy prices. We know very well that they are reflected in everything, i.e. even into the last catheter. So let's really have what we have at the moment as a standard. And I'm a little worried we won't. So let's remember, today, and today, these are the figures that are going on today's media, so that's certainly a very real number, that liter of petrol and diesel, and I'm going to round down once a few penny, one penny up, it's about CZK 48, and that price isn't final. Of course, the cost of all transports is increasing, which also means the transport health service. And once again, I probably don't know how we could pay for this service, because many medical devices are negotiating here, they don't have their own ambulances, because that's where the prices go up rocketically. So that's what it takes. And otherwise, I must say that Germany, and today it has come out in the world media, has already announced a second of three levels of threat precisely to increase all these energies. And I believe that the Federal Republic of Germany is certainly not interested in what we are talking about in the Czech Parliament because they have concerns, and in any case it is very responsible. So I would, of course, welcome some predictions and some measures from the government, because we do not live in isolation and we are very attached to the surrounding countries. As for other things, such as the Federal Republic of Germany in particular, it is nothing new, you all know it well, some of them clearly better than doctors, that we are also connected here by the transmission system of electricity, and there may again be some changes. So here I would also like to note that health care is simply very linked to all energy. It should be noted that a medium-sized hospital has consumption as a factory, and it cannot give leave to its employees because there would be a significant threat to the health status of the inhabitants of the region. So this hospital is really in a situation where we have to think about it completely and completely. And as for the other thing I'd like to say, health insurance companies, even the big ones, actually have a prediction of development, and they're actually counting on being minus. This means that they are already worried about how the current accounts will pay for their operation, and they are all saying the same way that 2022 is due to the very reserves they had, and that the payments for state insured people have increased at a time actually for emergency health, like last years, so we probably don't have to worry about them and that they will come out. The year 2023 remains unknown to them. I, of course, believe, and I was at one meeting at the Scientific Council, as Minister Válek said, where it did not sound from, say, the leaders of our health insurance, I mean the directors of major insurance companies, that they are therefore afraid, but it is hard to say from the eye to the Minister. So I believe that this was rather due to the loyalty of these directors and a certain degree of social feeling, but I am not sure that this was entirely true. That's what I have to say, too. So let's see what this time of year brings us. Another thing I would very much like to be, and once again I understand that I am saying this when the Minister of Finance is chairing this point, but it belongs in the health sector. But it always falls on the money, Mr. Secretary, for sure. This is the autumn. Please, we don't know what another coronavirus will do, of course. The idea that coronavirus will then pack up the backpack and leave because we want it is naive. And there is also concern from the World Health Organization, of course we are also talking to colleagues, particularly Austria, Germany, Great Britain, Scandinavian countries, where we all know that the current vaccines have already done their job, sure, thank God for them, but they are certainly not ready for more mutations. So it can happen, please nicely, that there will remain preserved efficiency but also may not. We don't know what's gonna happen in the fall. And it would be very naive to assume that nothing would happen. There'll be no doubt more respiratory infections, and there'll probably be another flu wave. It's true that in that first wave of coronavirus, we didn't actually have a positive flu test, and confirmed by the State Health Institute. It's just the infectologists, the vaccinologists will probably have to explain this situation, it just happened. It is highly unlikely that the same would happen twice. So again, my question is, how is this valorization, or is this system prepared for possible additional own spending, which could be jumping significantly higher? We really only have a prediction from epidemiology so far that we believe a new wave will come. It's what the World Health Organization epidemiologists say, but they can't tell us exactly what it is, so that makes it a little more complicated. However, we should be prepared. And then the thing that came out of the field last week, and I said it once before. Please nicely, I repeat again that some hospital directors, and thus also hospitals established by the region and so on, larger of course, those that are very important to the region, in economic prediction, are concerned that they will have to take a loan. I don't know the system that's possible. In any case, it frightens them, because they asked me to present this possibility here. Because it would not be good, and it would definitely lead to a significant reduction in the quality of health care in our Republic, which I think is unacceptable for all of us, because we are certainly all concerned about maintaining it. So for us, the basic rate is unacceptable, because it doesn't allow us to think about these things that are predictable in the valorization. In my opinion, there is no guarantee of an increase in income for not only medical and non-medical workers, without which no hospital can do. And that's why this situation seems inadequate to us. We are 100% in agreement with the valuation, so it's just a question, in quotation marks, just technical. I thank you for your attention and, eventually, if there was an answer, I would be grateful for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, too, Madame. Now with priority rights, Minister Válek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm very sorry I took advantage of the priority rights, but I wouldn't put that in tech. I'll try to answer some of those questions. I would like to begin by saying that I would like to ask both the Vice-President of the Tom Philipp Health Committee and you, Professor, if we really did make a health committee where we would really only deal with this issue, it would take time to do so. I would be very sorry and beg not to be at a time when the government is, because it's very difficult for me to go to the health committee on that Wednesday when I have to be in the government. Especially at the time of the Presidency. But I would like to introduce you to a number of the steps that you have been talking about here, through you, Mr President, Professor. Because you're right about a lot of things, and you need to think about those steps, and I'm trying to. So I would like to say that the prevention fund, its increase and the amendment were planned together with the Ministry of Health and with some members, after all, through the President, Madam, you know, with the members of the Board of Directors. This will certainly not go at the expense of the money that would be used for medical treatment, it will go at the expense of the operational fund. That's money that serves to run insurance companies, and that's good. The increase, of course, has a convention in something the Ministry of Health has been preparing for several weeks. And those conventions lie in some decrees where we want to define clearly what the preventive fund can be used for. [[11.20 hours]] We want to make it clear that the priorities are, when I say the key ones, in general, the diet foods that are used to treat - it's not just phenylketonuria, it's just lactose intolerance and just celiacs, but also some others - and we want the money to go not only to the families that these people have but to go in part to the schools. We talked about this in opposition when I was in opposition, you in the coalition, and I want to make it happen. It's a project that started working on a year and a half ago with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Fialka, and now with the Minister of Education, and so we put it together with health care so that the insurance company can give the money directly to schools. This also involves changing some of the regulations in the sense of the food basket, in the sense of health regulations, where I would like children to be able to warm up pre-prepared packages directly in schools. It has to do with the support of diabetics, where we work intensively with regard to telemedicine on, say, remote monitoring, which could again be covered by the prevention fund. I would like the prevention fund to be better covered by spa stays, and I would like the prevention fund not to forget, for example, children with Down syndrome who need special rehabilitation. I consider such a telemedicine project, which has Kladruby Spa, to be something that must be supported especially from European funds, because it is something that is extremely helpful to our patients. Well, that would be for the prevention fund and what we want to do with it. I would like to discuss this very carefully here on the Health Committee so that we can have the consensus of all members of the Health Committee regardless of whether they are doctors or not. The other thing is with the insurance companies. So, basically, I can't somehow call off the CEO of insurance companies. My influence on the management of insurance companies is virtually zero. In most administrative councils even the Ministry of Health has one or two representatives, which means the direct influence on insurance companies is close to zero. And you, through the President, Madam, you know that I don't care who's looking at me, I always tell everyone what I think, and I don't care what happens. I have no reason at my age to lie, no reason at all, and I'm worth nothing to say to those people I think, and I don't care who they are, and I don't care what happens next. Because either I think about something, and I suppose the insurance companies have it anyway. I agree that, of course, if there were two thousand, three thousand, four thousand, five thousand in the next year, no insurance company would say it was too much and it didn't want it. The culture in the Czech Republic is not that far away. But the money isn't, the economy is bad. That's why the calculations we have make 1,900 enough reserves to plan for further development. Again, I would really like to start discussing that there is much more supervision of the quality of the management of insurance companies, so that it does not happen that some insurance companies, for reasons that are not clear to me, are in an economically difficult situation, and de facto it is not possible to do anything about it. I think that the amendment to the law in the previous parliamentary term, when structures changed - it was a reaction to the Constitutional Court's decision - the structure of the administrative and supervisory boards of employees' insurance companies, was correct, but it must follow step B, and really the insurance bosses must be managers who take care of the money that somehow manages the long term. That is precisely what I think, and here I think we can definitely agree, if the conciliation option is within two to three years, that perspective will act as a quality manager for insurance companies' bosses, and health care facilities will certainly be easier and better. And I'm glad that the previous, last-year, board of providers just confirmed this this week, and they consider it absolutely crucial, and there was a 100% consensus on it. It should be said that, for example, in the conciliation procedure, practical physicians for adults, children and adolescents agreed, and these are the key experts we need, these are the ones who do preventive programs, these are the pillars in the field, and these are the ones that I also want to support from the point of view of the Minister of Health, because I would like all the money for residential places to go to these areas, namely for the practical doctors for adults and children and youth. I have to say, and I will say this as a complaint, even though I don't normally do this, that I was quite disappointed that half of the money that the ministry has for residential places goes into the fields where I don't see at all that there would be a shortage of experts and even directly to faculty hospitals. They're my hospitals, but if the faculty hospital needs a doctor, it's because he has a vacancy, and he's gonna take it anyway. It's not entirely meaningful for it to fund the state tax budget of all of us. On the contrary, the state budget of all of us should finance those doctors we lack, and these are mainly practical physicians for adults, practical doctors for children and adolescents, and, of course, some special fields, at this point, children psychiatrists. Now, let me have a little bit of sarcasm, and I apologize for that in advance. First of all, all hospitals are in black numbers, no hospital is in red. All hospitals have an incredible amount of money in their accounts. It's good, and I'm glad it is, and it's good for two things. It shows that the hospitals have really managed well in recent years and that most of them are excellent managers. That means it's a situation that needs to be worked with. However, a good businessman, if he is in black numbers and knows that the economic situation is not only in the Czech Republic, but mainly in Europe because of what has been going on with covid for two years, and then because one fool has decided to attack another European state and simply sparked war and war de facto with the whole of Europe by refusing to let go of food, by pulling the taps with oil and gas - yes, we can crawl on our knees and kiss Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovič's symbolic ring and do some sort of alpinism that we both know, but I think none of us want to, and no one of us is, and I am convinced 100% of it. Then the good landlord saves the money for those skinny summers, and that is, after all, from the Bible - seven rich and seven skinny. The more surprising thing for me was the instrument commission, where the number of requirements for the purchase of instruments, in some cases in hundreds of millions of those hospitals that don't have money, are going to be preparing for energy increases, they will get a huge amount of money from the European Union and have prepared resources for VAT payments, was far the highest of the last two to three years. That means, on the one hand, and I agree with that, with health care, health care facilities fear that increased energy prices, increased costs for everything will be fatal for them. And yes, I'm afraid of that too. And believe me, I'm doing everything I can to protect them. But on the other hand, the same medical facilities are considering, and they want to buy machines in tens or hundreds of millions, which I don't think is reasonable at this time. There are simply years when the economy is not well and one must behave cautiously. I mean, none of us are gonna be spending money in bulk right now buying stuff that's useless. I'm not talking about restoring machines. I find it very difficult to debate, on the one hand, that it is necessary to raise VAT money when investing from European funds, and then debate with the same breath that we should buy two seven-seven magnetic resonances when there is a maximum of one in the surrounding countries and it is not used anyway. And so I could continue with specific examples. I believe that, and I am 100% convinced that the Czech health services are incredibly good, that we have excellent hospitals, that we have reasonable and intelligent managers of those hospitals, that I have personally convinced myself in direct-controlled organizations. I am sure that our health professionals are extremely loyal and aware of the complicated situation, and I have no reason not to believe it, because both the providers' board and the scientific board - you know this as well as I do, through the President, the Member - repeatedly convinces me, and I greatly appreciate it. Of course, the debates are sharp, I'm getting a lot of complaints, but that's right, because I'm supposed to be the one the paramedics control and the patients control. On the other hand, I am 100% sure that the amendments in terms of valorisation, within the meaning of 1,900 as of 1 January, in terms of increasing the prevention fund will be an incredible benefit for Czech health care, for Czech patients and for those fruits we will reap in the coming years. And I would ask you to go together in this, so that we can harvest the fruits together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, too, Minister. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Věra Adámková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm very glad I got an immediate answer, I appreciate that, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad all hospitals are black according to this statement. Then, of course, I'll tell the directors of the hospitals that I'm saying weren't directly controlled, so it's different that they actually have nothing to complain about. I assume they'll accept your theory. But thank you for the answer, of course. [[11.30 hours]] As far as instrument technology is concerned, I believe that all the trump cards are in the hands of the instrument committee in order not to allow nonsense, so I probably didn't exactly want that in the question. As far as health insurance companies are concerned, I repeat that I appreciate their position in the sense of maintaining the quality of health care and, moreover, being those who are very socially competent. That's what I think is clear. As far as the health committee is concerned on Wednesday, I totally agree with you, I just have to say that the term government is up to you. That wasn't the health committee, that's really the government's decision, so we couldn't completely accept the complaint for the health committee. But we're adapting, I'm sure that's possible, because President Svoboda is, of course, very helpful in this. As far as spa care is concerned, I did not want to stress that here because we had on this topic, it is a few days round table, where we also offered a spa some cooperation within the scope of medical options and we expect feedback that we do not yet have. But surely it is possible to modernize the whole approach there. I'm just saying again, I hope we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, Madame, you have kept time, that is commendable. And we are going back to the general debate. Next in line is colleague Farhan. And we took turns managing the meeting, so I wish you a lovely morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I no longer performed here with a factual remark on the black numbers of hospitals. Of course, I'll just mention it briefly before I begin my comment. There are regions that just send hundreds of millions to those hospitals because those hospitals are missing the money, and then, of course, in the accounts, it goes black. Well, it's just for a quick refill. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal. I would like to begin my speech with several basic statements that affect the Government's proposal to reduce payments for state insured persons. Despite all the smarts in justifying and juggling numbers, the government is taking medical money. That's what's been said here, and that's just the way it is. It's an undisputed fact. Minus is minus, and I mean, you don't even have to be an economic expert or a significant mathematician to understand that when you take something, it's minus and just minus is minus. From my point of view, the government falsely claims that it is taking money from health care that it does not need at the moment. But I think the health services need them. Health needs money to compensate for crazy inflation for hospitals, practices and ambulances. He needs medication for large groups of patients who haven't had access to it yet. Shortening of long waiting periods for certain examinations and operations. He needs that medical money to invest in hospitals that are often heavily underinvested. Due to limited funds, precipital and indication restrictions, we put on late effective drugs in diabetics, cholesterol; For example, in terms of state-of-the-art cholesterol treatment, 2,500 people are effectively dealt with instead of 100,000 patients. People with migraines have to suffer for up to four days a month in pain before they get to an effective cure. Practicing doctors cannot prescribe effective drugs for osteoporosis, involving tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. I could also talk about drugs for atopic dermatitis and others. I am not telling you this as an opposition MP, but I can quote you, for example, Professor Škrha, Professor Vráblík, and other chairmen of professional medical societies and doctors who are publicly and in the media. The amendment proposed by the Valorisation Mechanism would have been fine for me if it had not been for him - how would I have put it? - if it weren't for its foundation. The government has deliberately reduced the basis for its calculation from this year's 1 967 crowns, which health care received in the first six, today it will be seven months, and has not included record inflation in it this year. Contrary to my view, it is a separate general methodology of its proposed valorisation mechanism. So the result of the valorization will be that after three years of so-called valorization, or after two years today, we get the current money for a month, which means somewhere around 2,000 per state insured. Bottom line, the government's taking the health care money twice. By reducing the payment for state insured persons and not including double-digit inflation into the valorisation mechanism. The government talks about not restricting the quality and availability of health care, but I ask: Where is any development that also costs something? Is that supposed to stop our health care in 2021? Where are the new technologies and therapies that save lives and enter the system? What do we want to pay them for? In the previous four years, thanks to the massive financial support of the government, Czech health services have begun to reach the most advanced and wealthiest European countries. This was reflected in the good approach of patients to state-of-the-art and most expensive health care, the motivational growth of doctors' and nurses' salaries, as well as the good economic results of hospitals, practices and ambulances, as mentioned by my previous speakers. Reducing the amount of funds to health care can reverse this positive trend. I therefore refuse to accept a false government game that there is so much money in the health sector that they do not know what to do with them. Of course, money is still missing today. It is missing because of limited funds and even today the most expensive medicines are not being reimbursed to large groups of patients, even though they would improve their health. I'm sure we still have a long waiting period for a number of examinations that we need to perform faster in view of the need for early diagnosis of patients. When you look at the residential buildings of some - not all, but also a number of major hospitals, including some faculty hospitals, it is clear to you at first glance that health care is not heated in money. If the government insists that there is enough money in Czech health care to return some to the state budget, from my point of view, the textbook of the economy in health care and pharmacoeconomics should be rewritten. Medication. Medications are limited, so-called cost efficiency and budgetary impact. If it is said that cost efficiency or budgetary impact are too great, drugs are simply not replaced. Cost efficiency and budgetary impact are directly dependent on the financial limits that we set ourselves according to the amount of funds available to us in the health sector. Somewhere, there's a line, we can call it a fat line, and that's not the point. The line has to be made. It has to be done to come out with the money we have at our disposal. But to claim that there's so much money that we wouldn't use more of it meaningfully in health care, I think it's a fake game. If, this year, insurance companies will pay hospitals and doctors under the existing contract of payment orders to the extent and quality of their contractual care, no one, I think, is in conflict today. By constantly repeating this in my trivial reality, however, the government cannot conceal the fact that high-quality health care could be more and more readily available if the money that the government has decided to collect on it was used. A big problem with the quality and availability of care but can occur in the following years. There appears to be a nominal percentage increase in payments for next year, perhaps somewhere around 4 percent, but this is well below current inflation. So we're really going to want hospitals, practitioners, ambulances the same range of care, the same quality of health care, but for less money. And I ask, how long will this work? By really taking the health sector tens of billions of crowns forward for years, the government clearly states what priority health and health status the Czech population represents for it. This money is missing and will be missing from the development of Czech health care. They're gonna miss the meds. To therapy for large groups of patients. For investments in health infrastructure, technology and capacity to shorten waiting times for examinations and operations. [[11.40 hours]] These are all parameters of quality and availability of health care. Nor does it change the fact that the government will constantly repeat that the payment decree is in force, and providers may agree with insurance companies on payments next year. The government simply takes money from Czech health care, which from my point of view will clearly be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Mádlová, Mrs Knechtová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to comment on this House's press, which concerns payments for state insured persons or reduction of payments for state insured persons. There are several, at least five reasons why payment for state insured persons should not be reduced - it is a high rate of inflation, delayed care, a refugee wave due to the war in Ukraine - that is an argument, and not that it is not, Minister - the risk of a covid-19 epidemic, and as has already been said here before, the modernisation and development of health care. Inflation. The Czech Republic is currently among the countries that are struggling with the spiral of inflation. Consumer prices rose by 16 percent year on year in May and, given that the Czech National Bank has increased interest rates again, it cannot be assumed that it would expect some establishment of consumer prices in the near future. All of us who know the current practice of medical or social facilities know that the increase in food prices, gas, electricity, fuel, but also medical material is, of course, not just about households, but about these very facilities. I myself have been working specifically in recent years at the level of health-social boundaries in homes with a special regime. Where energy prices are hot today, it is unbearable for these social facilities where health care is provided. The prices have increased at least three times since January. There is a great risk that these devices will fight the heat charges for energy. And it's obvious and it's common knowledge that in establishments like hospitals or social facilities, the temperature is a little higher than we're used to having at home. There's a number of devices, equipment, hospitals can't do without energy within operating rooms, instruments and the like, so the fight with energy will be very, very critical for these devices, whether hospital or social, critical. Likewise, food prices and, of course, food are rising. These facilities, such as homes from a special regime, must be administered five times a day. The prices are somehow ceilinged by the decree. This situation is really starting to get quite critical. And what is getting very serious is that families are really struggling to be able to co-finance or finance their parents' care in these facilities. I would also like to point out that there are health workers who are paid for the payment of public health insurance for specific performances. It's a big concern that he's gonna start saving up there since 2023. Now it's going to get over, as you say, Mr. Secretary. Another reason is delayed care. During the two-year pandemic crisis in the Czech Republic, many medical procedures have been postponed and this is not only a preventive examination, which is of course very important for human life and health, but also a number of surgeries whose delay can cause patients many problems and consequences in life. For example, more than 70,000 performances were postponed with the General Health Insurance Company, the largest Czech health insurance company. If we wanted to go back before the pandemic, more than 100,000 performances would have to be realized this year, which, of course, is a huge problem not only capacity but also financial. Average waiting times have increased for practically all treatments as well as for preventive oncological examinations across medical devices. The alarming situation is especially in oncological examinations and neglected care, when people were afraid to see a doctor and now, of course, the catching up of all examinations and procedures will cost some money. It is certain that the effects of delayed procedures and preventive oncological examinations also affect the quality of life, pain, going to work and so on. That the situation with time availability is serious, data, for example, in the average waiting times for some interventions, some even exceed these specified waiting times according to the decree. And of course, in order to correct this situation, these are not only reasons for capacity, but of course also financial, it is a question of reimbursement for these performances, for purchasing medical supplies, medicines, as my previous speakers have said. A refugee crisis. You, Minister, said it wasn't an argument. But he's the argument, because we have 370,000 more state insured people here. Yes, it is a question of how many are actually here today, how many are consumed by care, how many are employed today, and for which the employer takes them to health insurance. However, it is now known that many of these Ukrainian citizens are in worse health than we would have expected, and today they are also known to be seriously ill. You yourself state in strategic priorities that seriously ill patients and patients who are being treated are enough among refugees, that they will need to arrange for specific medications and vaccines and that they are expensive medicines. Yes, you've set aside some amount of about $9 billion, but the question is, will it cover the health care facility? You are writing that there is a certainty that there is an increase in drug supplies for the treatment of multi-resistant tuberculosis, HIV-positive patients, hepatitis C patients, oncological patients, and so on. Just to imagine, the treatment of this tuberculosis costs from CZK 60,000 to CZK 300,000 per patient, HIV - the average cost of treatment is CZK 220,000 per patient, with haemophilia an average of CZK 560,000 per patient, but there are no more than CZK 20 million per patient, depending on the severity of the disease, and we know that even Ukrainian citizens are so seriously ill. And of course it's okay that we want to help them and that we want to cure them or cure them. I'm glad there's an answer to the health insurance funds, too, because it's more like talking in the global, that it's going to be drawn from health insurance funds, and I haven't found out what kind of funds it's coming from. Whether it's mostly operational, or whether it's part of the prevention fund or what funds it's going to interfere with. And the Minister of Health - he's not here - said it was mostly from the operational fund. Is that so, Mr. Finance Minister? Probably. So that's a good thing, because it would certainly not be desirable for it to interfere with the prevention fund, because there, for example, the General Health Insurance Company focuses on preventing cancer and offering benefits for its clients or tries to motivate smoking in some way, for women 30 to 45 years of age there is a contribution of 300 crowns for ultrasound or mammographic examination of breasts, which is of course very important in the prevention of oncology. As far as the crisis or epidemic is concerned, there's no point in talking about it, because we've all been there. And, of course, if something like this occurs in the autumn, then we can expect increased costs in the Health Department again. My colleague spoke about the modernisation and development of health care, so I would just repeat myself. Indeed, it is a fact that we cannot freeze in 2021, but it is necessary, especially in our set high quality of health care, to modernise health care, to develop preventive and therapeutic methods. So if I were to comment on valorization - yes, it is an excellent step forward, but I cannot agree with the starting amount that is lower than the amount for this semester. Otherwise, it is certainly a step in the right direction, but I cannot approve this proposal, because I am sure that this is not a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Madame. The next in line in the general debate is Mrs Knechtová. Mrs Pastuchová will be ready. Sorry, we have two factual points before I give you my word. The first point of fact is made by Minister Válek, whom I do not see in the hall. Mrs Adámková, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to add and respond to my colleague, Dr Mádlová, because she has touched on three very sensitive things that need to be really stressed. One thing is central care, where I think we will not have enough resources to move it further into modern times. This is especially not so much a rare disease, but a central care of disorders of fat metabolism, a severe degree where there is currently biological treatment, there are only two possible ways, two types of medication. And, of course, insurance companies are very heavily guarded by all the restrictions that are there. And we won't have enough money. The second is hepatitis C, please, nice. And now there are European data: Hepatitis C, which actually has up to 80 percent prevalence in prisons, where the largest center is at a prison hospital. On the contrary, once again, there is still a need to increase the finances - I believe that this will not be possible again - because it turned out, in particular, from Spain, that if they properly cured hepatitis C in prisons, then the prisoners, after they came into the field, were no longer the sources of infection. And the third are waiting times, because especially from the field we see that there is a restriction on the care by the fact that they really do not carry out some tests because they are no longer financially possible for them, so the waiting time is extended in large hospitals, because of course we will take such a patient, so then normal ultrasounds, C.T.s and so on we are in the order of weeks, and I mean ten, twelve weeks, of course, and that's not good. So I think this too is not entirely taken into account and that the starting sum is really very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the point of fact and for keeping time. I will now give the floor to Mrs Knechtová in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u104	Mr President, thank you for the floor. honourable Members, Minister, that measure will have an impact on the public insurance system in particular as a whole. The reduction of the assessment base for state insured persons and the argument of the surplus of health insurance companies in current accounts is a completely purposeful misrepresentation of the situation. At a time of major increases in energy prices, medical supplies, food, and others, on the contrary, it would be appropriate to increase the remuneration of health care establishments. While all the increases in payments under the previous government were able to compensate for the increase in wage costs, this government deliberately transfers the problem to end health care providers. Thanks to the DRG payments, faculty hospitals and highly specialised centres will still be in the real remuneration regime, but others, especially smaller facilities often established by municipalities or higher local authorities, will fall economically, so I also decided to speak on this topic today. On the one hand, the savings of state budget resources amounting to approximately CZK 14 billion, but the revenue of the public health insurance system will be reduced by the same amount. This means total exhaustion of the basic health insurance fund this year. The savings on the state budget of CZK 14 billion are, in my opinion, a major loss for public health insurance. Last year, health insurance companies with a deficit of CZK 14 billion ended, for this year they calculate health insurance plans for health insurance companies with a deficit of approximately CZK 9.5 billion. The association of health insurance companies has already warned that the health insurance deficit will deepen and that savings will need to be made, for example, on bonifications or in drug policy. And I'm asking, is that what we really want? What about Covid? According to the opinion of the Czech Health and Social Welfare Union, covid did not only decimate society physically and physically, covid decimated us mainly mentally and mentally. This is more true in health and social services than elsewhere. Covid is still a problem for most people. Disease, permanent consequences and deaths - none of us want that. Millions of people were dying from covid, covid, and covid, and millions more are grieving after them today. However, the problem of covid overlaps other problems and enables distractions. Our government has been criticized by the opposition that it is doing everything wrong and that it is necessary to reverse the helm. The political representation has changed, but the desired result has not yet appeared in my opinion. We're still moving from wall to wall, and I don't see rationality or any help. So what can we expect? Covid was here, he is, and he will certainly be a huge problem in the future, and we will have to deal with him. The economic situation is difficult, but instead of quick aid and support, the government is preparing cuts. The first were the ones who kept the state and the public services running. And what's next? You wanted to save about 80 billion in the 2022 budget. Health care is supposed to contribute to the savings of 14 billion that will not get into the public insurance system, and other millions of savings within the Ministry of Health budget. In my opinion, this is unbelievable, unthinkable, and in my opinion, we are putting an even bigger problem into the future. They're cuts that don't even meet reality. My opinion is not unique, by the way. The President of the Czech Medical Chamber, Dr. Milan Kubek, refused to reduce payments for state insured persons. For example, in the article Our Health Care. cz: Do not reduce payments for state insured persons, calls on the Czech Medical Chamber of the Government. The Czech Medical Chamber called on Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his government in an open letter to reconsider the plan to reduce the payment for so-called state insured persons by CZK 400 a month, which is due to take place on 1 July this year. Thus, the public health insurance system should receive CZK 14 billion less from the state this year than expected, and the health sector as a whole should receive approximately CZK 20 billion less. I would like to remind you that it was the health sector that was the greatest burden of managing the pandemic of covid-19, and the deployment of health professionals did not have to bring the economy to a complete halt. At least tens of billions of crowns were saved by health care to the Czech economy and the state. Yet, paradoxically, health care is supposed to be the kind of resort that government cuts fall hard on. It's not fair, says the president of the Czech Medical Chamber, Dr. Milan Kubek. The State pays child, pensioner and unemployed premiums, i.e. about 60 percent of the population, while the amount of this payment has been, according to Kubek, about a quarter of the average wage contributions. It is precisely the lack of the amount of this proxy payment by the state that is mainly the cause of the long-term economic problems of chronically underfunded Czech health care. The improvement occurred only after Prime Minister Babiš's government gradually began to increase this payment, with effect from 1 June 2020, by 500 CZK per month, with effect from 1 January 2021 by 200 CZK per month and with effect from 1 January 2002 by another CZK 200 per month. [[2022?]] The Czech Medical Chamber stated four specific reasons in the letter that the reduction of payments for state insured persons is ill-considered. And what are the reasons not to lower? The first reason is the high inflation rate, which makes energy prices, fuel prices, food prices rise, which, according to the Czech Medical Chamber, will also lead to pressure on employees to increase wages and wages. In this context, it should be recalled that the health care system is devastated by personnel, and if healthcare facilities are unable to offer attractive wages, this crisis will only deepen, warns President Milan Kubek. [[12.00 hours]] The second reason is the covid-19 epidemic, which according to the president of the Czech Medical Chamber has not yet ended. No one knows what's coming for us in the fall, he adds. The epidemic is also linked to the delayed health care that patients still need, and now the health care will have to go a long way. This was not only a preventive examination, but also an operation whose repeated delay causes patients unnecessary suffering and impairs the quality of their lives. To these people, who are also victims of the epidemic, we have a debt that we should now repay by providing them with the necessary medical care as soon as possible. Of course, health workers will try to catch up and catch up, but health insurance companies will have to pay for these performances. This is how the President of the Czech Medical Chamber explains it, Dr. Milan Kubek. Your health care awaits an enormous burden, the President of the Czech Medical Association concludes that no government has yet stepped in to reduce the payment for state insured people, and when the state budget was without serious reasons, it should not deepen its deficit. The President of the Czech Medical Chamber does not consider the current crisis to be too prudent to save on health care. Even this upcoming savings is, in my opinion, absurd. We still have the covid and we don't know what's going to happen. The government now doesn't even mind acting contrary to what it declared publicly. I would remind you that the government stated in its programming statement that it wanted to regularly valorise the amounts for state insured persons, and for this reason I also welcome the proposed amendment. On the other hand, we will find no mention in the programme statement of prevention of oncology - a topic that is important for the whole of society. I am afraid there will be a reduction in the number of people who will be able to take advantage of innovative cancer treatment. There will be no money, for example, for innovative medicines, for the treatment of rare diseases will be limited. I'm referring to the specific effects that your cuts will certainly bring. In conclusion, given the current developments, the measures put forward do not make any sense to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. The Minister of Health will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u106	I, Mr President, will borrow Mr Nacher's words. I really didn't want to perform anymore, but when you called on me, not by your means, to have a factual one, that would be a huge disrespect to the Minister for the Vice-President of the House, so he wouldn't use it. Well, I'll just be very brief. The central treatment and the debate - I thank you very much for that. Thank you for pointing out the various problems with central treatment, and I would like to make sure that there is really no problem with the orphans, rare medications, central treatment. We have clear quotas for how many children from Ukraine will be treated in individual countries so that the care is as good for them as possible and there is no restriction on care for Czech citizens. Plus, typically, the vaccines against, say, atypical tuberculosis, that's how we get some of the vaccines for free. We can't get them at the expense of other countries, but we're actually getting them out of the quota that goes to Ukraine, so we're getting them. And it typically applies now, that is, to be the current, monkey pox vaccines, which we will have in some number of packages, although I do not think that this is absolutely necessary, but let it, let it be free, and of course it will be stored for the reason that we have it in case of any problem. I have asked several colleagues, one of whom is Professor Štěrba, who takes care of individual groups of those children who have the rare ones - and they coordinate this within the European Union, and I think it works very well. I would really, really like to thank Deputy Jakub Dvořáček, but also the Health Ministry staff, because it is not my credit, it is their credit and they are doing it, they are working on it, and the coordination in this regard between countries is excellent and the transfer of those patients so that the capacities are optimally used and it does not burden the systems of those countries, it really is very good. Thanks again for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u107	Thank you, too. I'm just gonna make it clear that you, Minister, have been signed up for a point of fact. Then you left the O.R. and she failed. Then I challenged you. Anyway, your door is always open on a factual note. Your factual remark raised two more. First in line - Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. I do not want to respond to the Minister of Health, but to Minister Stanjura, who - with a little delay - said: It is only legitimate to lead the argument about the difference, about the 4.8 billion. There's something there, I don't want to say guess, but make a deal. So, Minister, it's still possible to negotiate at second reading somewhere in the meantime, let's not say compromise, but you say it's a few percent. You're arguing that the health department won't take it. On the other hand, perhaps it would be such an amicable way to compromise. I just wanted to ask if - because our act is still about the same thing that we want to give back or leave the money a little bit, and you say, but there's no point, it's a couple of crowns. So I just want to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, will be delivered by Mr Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just having a little reaction to Minister Válek, as he said about the vaccines, that they're free, so I just want to restock it. Yes, the vaccines may be free, they will come to the Czech Republic, and so whether they will be paid by the EU or by the state, I do not know. I'd just like to clarify that. But the app won't be free anymore. The app will be ready, it will be applied by practical doctors, probably for children and youth mainly, and it must be paid. And that's from the health insurance. So every thing like that really brings up the extra costs. Well, that's just a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u111	Yes, thank you. Another comment will be made by the Minister of Finance Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u112	I really didn't say it was a few bucks. I said it's 4.8 billion and it's big money so we could understand each other. I was just saying that the match is almost 99 percent. So I don't consider the amount small. So on my part, I've already made the compromise. We were negotiating. I had proposals that were lower and which would still mean that the health insurance system would remain in black numbers next year. Your previous procedure, which I consider legitimate, I do not criticize - you said: either 1 967, or nothing. And I consider the number 1 967, I've said it repeatedly here, it's made up, it has no logic. I don't want to criticize too much, I may understand why it came from that time, because it was long before we knew the results, but the moment we knew the results for 2021, from my point of view, the number lost logic. And if I don't see the logic there, then I like the debate about numbers, then I don't know why I should say: this is the right number. The number was wrong. I say, I understand it, because there was a lot of uncertainty at the moment it was decided, I don't question it, but why insist hard when it turned out to be lucky - luckily it turned out it was wrong that the drop wasn't 50 billion, but 13. So that's actually good news. So why keep working on that number that had some pessimistic prognosis and luckily it didn't confirm? Here we talked in January when the first reading, or in February, was about how low the income of health insurance companies would be. We have numbers in five months. Again, luckily, it didn't confirm. But I say we do the bill this year when we know the numbers for the whole year. So I don't actually see at this point - we can always act, I do not resist it, we have also acted several times before second reading, but I think that the proposal that we finally compromised inside the government coalition is actually good, it actually brings more money to health insurance than I originally proposed. [[Vice-President Skopeček: Time, Minister.]] Thank you for your warning, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u113	Next in line with Mr Mašek's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u114	To the Minister of Finance. I see some symbolism there, because, as I have pointed out here, we have reached 10 percent of GDP in health care, and part of that was in the past neglected gradual increases in payments for state insured persons, who, as I have also said here, consume a much larger proportion of the money than the contributions made for state insured people. So, yes, the 1 967 is the value of the first half of this year, and that's what we've been clinging to, and we think it's a good basis. Otherwise, I understand that it could be rounded to, like, 2,000, it would be 6 billion. But if we are talking about the 4.8 billion, we think that they should definitely remain in the health sector, and that is the symbol of the gradual increase in payments for state insured people, which is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u115	Thank you for keeping time. Another comment will be made by Mr Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u116	I don't want to delay it, but thank you so much for answering, Minister. So I'm supposed to take it that way, if you're listening to me, would you still be able to, like, take a break from one of the club presidents, talk to you about it and maybe find...? No, there's no point. Okay. So I just wanted to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u117	Thank you for clearing that up. And the next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u118	I, too, would like to speak to the Minister, through Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we're talking about 4.9 billion now, and you're saying that's a lot of money. I'm ready for the next point, that's going to be EET, and that's where we're talking about 4.2 billion, and you're saying it's negligible. I just want it not to work out when we have another point so we can get back to it, what is and what isn't a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mrs Pastuchová will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers, for me this week, it's kind of dark as a paramedic. It started yesterday - and I have to comment on this - when we were discussing the pension insurance law on the Social Policy committee, where we should and wanted to correct only the technical error that happened in the last parliamentary term, when for the law that our rescuers, whom you all applauded in covid, who were the best, the great ones, and you wouldn't have allowed to raise your hand before the elections or at the time of the covid, so yesterday we MEPs for the ANO movement, who we prepared for the changeling at that time on our knee, quickly, I apologize for that, but since the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs didn't cooperate with us at that time, because it was preparing an amendment to the law for demanding professions, which doesn't apply to the rescue workers at all, so we gave this changer. You all voted for him here. I apologize to those who didn't sit here. There's been a mistake, 1. 1. 2023 is supposed to come into force, but it can't be done because it's technically wrong. Therefore, we wanted to make amends, we have prepared a new amendment, or a technical amendment that we are giving to those rescuers who were very pleased that this House agreed to thank them for this, because firefighters and cops are serving, we rescuers have nothing. And what happened yesterday on the Social Policy Committee? The five-calice just didn't raise her hand for it. I know it doesn't belong here, Minister. I'll get back to it. I say I've been a medic since 1984, and for me this week, it's dark as a medic. Even what we're discussing here right now, because it concerns all of us paramedics. Because I don't believe that your government would give us any money on pay or those people who've been dragging this place for two years so you can brag and swear at us like we didn't make it. We handled him very well, you can't handle what's going on here, you're giving one hit after another to these people here. And this is one of them. So I say again, I'm having a dark day, you didn't approve, there's going to be another vote. Yesterday, Mrs Žitníková, to all Members, sent you a request from the Union of Health to read it and support this proposal. I am building on this - and I will now comment on this point - I will add that, of course, we have been promised that this government will correct it, but with its proposal. But when we see everything going on here for a long time, I don't believe that 1. 1. 2023 This law will be done, about demanding professions, I warn you, so it's open to Pandořin's box, because in those challenging professions everyone will want to be, I understand, I get a lot of e-mails, I understand everyone, but this wasn't about changing the law, it was about correcting the technical error that notabene's Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agrees with, but it just doesn't want to be the changer, so we're gonna do it with the whole law. So it's the first grim day - yesterday. Today is the second, because we are discussing a reduction of 14 billion for health care. The health services that did the most work here at the time of the covid. We're just gonna keep hurting the health department. Not only will the employees pay for it, everyone will pay for it, even if you say it doesn't touch anyone, of course it touches anyone. And I would like to quote because I know that you don't all read e-mails, the expression of the Health and Social Welfare Union, because I think it's a very interesting document. Let me quote: "The reduction of payments to the State for its insured persons at first glance seems completely incomprehensible and, moreover, illogical. We assumed that after the cod pandemic, no one would question the need for financially healthy health care. We were wrong. Ideology triumphs over reason and numbers. The reduction in payments and the creation of an internal debt of 14 billion must be shown somewhere. The health sector is affected most by government cuts, in addition to reducing health insurance payments for state insurance, the Ministry of Health's budget has also decreased by 5.5 billion compared to the original plan and by more than a billion compared to 2021. Incomprehensible and inexplicable. Why are we concerned about the development of the situation? For this year, the health insurance budget has been set as deficit. Primarily, without cost of covid, the deficit climbed up after counting the cost of raising salaries to minus 17 billion. To this end, the costs of testing, which the Ministry of Health estimates to be 10 billion by the end of February, must be added." It was communicated on February 24th. "Of course, vaccines and other covid drugs will also have to be paid. There are indeed balances of about 50 billion on health insurance accounts, but if we subtract the above mentioned costs and take into account that a month is needed to cover the care and operation of insurance companies 37.5 billion, the balance is completely different. Remains are total, not only in reserve funds. To do this, it must be borne in mind that the Ministry of Health will have to issue a new decree that will compensate for increased costs for hospitals and other healthcare institutions. After that, we have absolutely nothing left for this year and we are at the beginning of the year and we do not know," it is now almost half of the year, "what will come. We've done our best for the union. We sent the Prime Minister a written explanation of why payments for state insured persons should not be reduced - without reply." I don't know if the Prime Minister has answered yet. "We announced our position at the tripartite meeting. We discussed with Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan and, of course, Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek." I have to say here, and I have to say a little bit that, unlike the tripartite, the union was lucky that someone in the government acted because, as I heard yesterday at Mr. Hanák's press conference, it hasn't happened yet that no one in the government was there and there was a minister. That's probably how our government works. [[Minister of Finance from the place: They were abroad.]] Please don't yell at me. I'm sure you weren't all abroad, the whole government. Or you're supposed to switch dates when you're not here. I think tripartite, as you say, is very important to you. [[12.20 hours]] "Minister Válek claims that we are the only institution that expresses concern. Apparently we're not from the Czech Medical Chamber. Why is no one else answering?" And I'm still quoting. I'm quoting a statement from the Health Union. "I will allow myself to speculate. Directly controlled hospitals have already noted a statement that there will be a change of directors. Call in and go against the founder? Regional hospitals also have founders and any departure from the series can be counterproductive. Many directors are also politicians. There is a change in the board of directors in insurance companies, especially in the VZP," which has already been replaced - "and which appoints the director." I'm saying, I'm reading the union statements that we all got. "The circle has closed. And where could the second view come from, the view of current government politicians? How is it that they do not see huge cuts in health care as dangerous and meaningless? The answer can be found in their planned changes in health care. If there is no money, it is easier to explain why it is necessary to create additional insurance and why patients should pay extra. Covido's time will still have an impact, both on patients and health professionals, which is why we want health to be financially stable. And this is not yet taken into account in these simple figures mentioned above, the huge financial costs in the health sector, which involve helping and providing health care for war refugees from Ukraine. Of course, this humanitarian aid is supported by the trade union in all its ways, but it is an unexpected problem and it will be unexpected expenditure. This situation, together with the unknown future development of the epidemic situation, should persuade the government to re-evaluate the cuts made by the state insured." I would also like to respond here to my fellow Member, through you, Milan Brázdil, who said and asked if he thinks that if he took a break, so there is something else to be done. Well, Congressman, we've been here six months, and you can see how the coalition treats us. Nothing. So it was a good try, but I think it's completely useless, because to advise from us... Yesterday I actually heard in the television debate of our former shadow minister Mr. Havlíček with Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade, a very confident one who sent us a message or told Mr. Havlíček not to kindly advise him. That if he needs advice, he'll take the experts. That was a very nice statement. So we're not experts here, we're just paramedics doing 30 years in health care, but no one's asking our opinion. So the last sentence of the letter from the Health Union. "Again, we recall the crucial premise: health care will be as affordable and financially secure as politicians will set it up. Everything is a matter of priorities." So that was the expression of the Health Union. Now, let me say the same thing. The association of health insurance companies has already warned that this will increase the health insurance deficit and will require savings on, for example, boniifications or pharmaceutical policies. The government claims that this step will save CZK 14 billion. Why does the government want to reduce the already agreed increase in payments for state insured persons when the insurance companies themselves state that - I quote - "except for spending savings, where there is not much room, it will certainly be necessary to increase the State's payments for 2023. Moreover, this decision should come before the end of the payment negotiations for 2023, i.e. until the middle of this year." I don't know if that's the case yet, Minister. Thus, the steps of the government are in direct conflict with the steps really needed. The first trump is the financial balance of the system, which has not developed nearly as badly as expected. According to last year's predictions, health insurance companies were to end up with a deficit of CZK 50 billion, and by the beginning of the year they were to have only 10 billion in total in their accounts. In fact, at the end of the year, they managed only CZK 13 billion in deficit and had total balances of CZK 51.8 billion. The second trump is an increase in income from active insurance payers, which, according to government estimates, should increase by 5 to 7 billion in terms of inflation - I think it is even more today, because inflation here is 16 percent, 16 percent. The Insurance Act specifies the amount of the assessment base per person and the month from which the payment is calculated. At the same time, however, it allows for this amount to be changed for each calendar year by means of government regulations. The Government may do so by 30 June with effect from 1 January of the following year. Last year the government, our government of Andrej Babiš, increased the payments for state insured persons by CZK 200 to CZK 1 967. Petr Fiala's government has decided to cut this increase. But it cannot be done by the government's regulation, because such a change would only apply from 1 January next year, but we are actually discussing it, today is 23 June, so 30 June, with effect from 1 January it would be too late, so it must therefore propose a change to the law. However, since there is still an increase from last year, it will be done by amending the law with effect, I have been here since 1st July, I know that it will be again from 1st August, because it will not be done, payment will be reduced by the end of the year, but it will still take CZK 14 million - billion to the state budget and public health insurance. If only millions, billions of crowns. In connection with the negotiation of the State Budget Act for 2022, the Government of the Czech Republic concluded that the current state of public finances was necessary to address the involvement of all public resources, which are currently not effectively used. This appropriation is also intended to cover balances on health insurance funds, which amounted to 51.8 billion on 31 December 2021. Here it should be noted that health insurance plans for health insurance companies count for this year with a deficit of around 9.5 billion, which would only be reflected in the basic health insurance fund, for which there would be a reduction of about CZK 14.3 billion, is mentioned in the draft submission that we are discussing today. The draft amendment was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and discussed with the Ministry of Health. In preparation, the proposal received an exception from the implementation of inter-ministerial commentary management of the evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation with discussion of the working commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government. The government is aware that saving on the part of the state budget of approximately CZK 14 billion is a loss for public health insurance. The revenue of the public health insurance scheme will be reduced by the same amount, which would mean the full exhaustion of the basic health insurance fund this year without further delay. However, it can be assumed that the situation on the income side of economically active insurance payers will develop more positively, when income will be higher in terms of inflation. However, the real value will be known over the course of the year and it must be assumed that inflation will also be reflected on the cost side of health service providers - as my colleague, through you, Ivana Mádlová, has precise figures - which will exert pressure on raising payments in the framework of the negotiation of health service payments agreements for next year. However, to strengthen the basic health insurance fund, it is also possible to involve the funds of other funds, in particular the reserve and operational fund, on which most health insurance companies have sufficient resources to bridge this year's freezing of payment for state insured persons, is mentioned in the presentation report. [[12.30 hours]] Can the savings of reserve and operational funds be hijacked? It should be noted that the reserve funds, which under the Act on VZP and on Departmental, Corporate and other health insurance companies are intended to cover the deficits of the basic fund and cover paid services in cases of mass sickness and natural disasters - and now I don't know if I have the exact number here, because it may have shifted the length of discussion, I think not, but at this point I have written that there is something over CZK 4.8 billion. The operational funds are then used to cover the costs of the activities of insurance undertakings. The main source of these funds is determined allocations from the basic fund, which depend mainly on the number of insured persons of the insurance undertaking, but on average amounts to a little more than 3% of the basic fund's income, which is, as the Ministry of Health states on its website, compared to the operating costs of health insurance companies in other European countries far below the average. In Germany it was 6,8% in 2014, in Belgium 4,5 %, in Slovakia 3,5 %. At the end of last year, there were nearly 17.4 billion operating funds, of which around 6,200 employees who work in insurance companies have to be paid, energy that is now rising incredibly, repairs, rents, IT, promotion, equipment, operating costs and other services. For example, the VZP, which had almost 12 billion in the operational fund at the end of last year, is again planning a savings of 1.9 billion in its health insurance plan for this year, while the situation is different for employees. Originally, a deficit of 14 billion was expected for this year, which insurance funds would still cover with 9 billion remaining on the accounts at the end of the year. In addition, a larger proportion of the balances would only cover outstanding liabilities for 2022. But the remaining 14 billion declines can no longer be covered by the balances and some of the unpaid costs will be transferred to the next year. Now I will skip to give room to others, but I still dare say that all this was mentioned before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which, according to estimates, almost 340 000 have reached the Czech Republic - I don't know the number, maybe more - Ukrainian refugees, to whom the state pays health insurance to a large extent. I completely understand and agree that there is a need and need to help these people, but let no wonder today's government is criticized by citizens when we take full financial responsibility for Ukrainian refugees, that is correct, but it wants to save money on Czech taxpayers. The Association of Outpatient Specialists, on whom this refugee crisis will now have the greatest impact, has also opposed the reduction by means of an open letter, and I do not know where you will take the specialists, because we have refugees who have real problems. I've already said it here, I don't want to do it somehow - but I have a residential refugee family since 9 March, I deal with them of course also health care, I know how health care is paid there, what they pay there, drops for cataracts here unfortunately or unfortunately I can't get them in the Czech Republic because we're dealing with operations here, thank God for how our Czech citizens are doing, but now I actually have a woman from a Ukrainian family who doesn't want to go into surgery, doesn't want to use our system as a refugee, but I just can't get those eye drops because we don't have any. Well, I guess we want to book for the eye department, but the waiting time is incredible. Not to mention that she is a Ukrainian woman, there is an incredible time for us Czech citizens. I'm just putting it as a discussion that you're saying it doesn't touch anyone, and waiting times are increasing. The Association of Outpatient Specialists, whose members are doctors working outside of a large hospital, conducting their own private practice, has also, through an open letter, stood up for your proposal... against the proposal. According to the Association, the lack of funding will mainly affect private health care providers. Their overhead costs are rising due to higher energy prices. They also face the strain of patients who return to their offices after dispersing. The state will be able to provide for its own facilities in a different way financially, while ambulances do not have that option. We will be back before 2019, when the Ministry of Health financially preferred state health service providers, while the offices of specialists grew more and more alive. That was a quote by Zorjan Jojek, a cardiologist and chairman of the Association of Outpatient Specialists. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance's proposal comes in the period when the office specialists continue to increase the cost of operation, especially inflation, and increasing energy. I think it is now completely - I wrote this speech about 14 days ago, so it goes on and goes on. This is a development that no one expected during the conciliation procedure for this year, but the financial stability of providers and the quality and availability of care is beginning to threaten. Thus, the funds set up by the letter of payment for 2022 will not be sufficient. This concerns, in particular, all surgical disciplines, which increase the cost of consumables - bandages, plasters, disinfection - and the increase in energy prices is mainly seen in technical fields such as cardiology and gastroenterology, which is also supplied by Dr. Zorjan Jojko. Another person who commented on the government's address is Mr Martin Čaban, who talks about the government's efforts to improve its image by means of cuts. The price that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has improved the balance of the new budget by CZK 14 billion this year will not be small. On the one hand, there will indeed be small savings on the part of public finances. The 14 billion will not increase government debt, which will reduce the cost of debt service, so this 50 billion budget chapter will save some CZK 200 to 300 million, yet in the new draft budget compared to the proposal by the ex-minister Alena Schillerová, the cost of state debt has increased due to rising interest by CZK 5 billion. However, the entire 14 billion crowns cannot be classified as savings in the true sense. The money flows through health care anyway, which is why the government may pretend that savings in quotation marks do not affect health care salaries or the extent of care provided, only in 2022 will health insurance companies pour them out of their reserves. But in 2023, if care payments aren't to go down, this money will be needed again. And they probably won't be in the reserves anymore. We can bet on it, even though I never thought they'd be looking again in the state budget. The bogeyman of payment for state insured is currently hiding behind a dazzling presentation of budget savings, i.e. the government will be blown up again very soon, at the latest by the time the next year's budget starts, which should be even more economical than this year's. Is there any chance of getting ready for the early onset of this bogeyman? Well, that depends. In theory, yes. [[12.40 hours]] In the programme statement and elsewhere, the government is told that its objective is a predictable system of automatic valorisation of payment for state insured persons by indexing to one or more economic indicators. The insurance companies are mostly enthusiastic about such an idea, because it would allow much better planning of income and costs throughout the system. But it's not a new idea. Our former minister, Adam Vojtěch, tried to enforce automatic valorization every time he was a minister of health. But he failed with the proposal. It should actually be like those pensions, because if it wasn't for automatic valorization, I don't think the pensioners will get anything from your government today. So, thank God the valorization went well at least with the pensions. I hope that the Ministry of Health, which I'm sure has a lot to worry about right now - as our government did with the covid, is worried about something else - but I think that when this goes away, and I hope that it will be soon, so it will also focus on this automatic mechanism of increasing payments. Another task for the Ministry of Health will then be to search for savings, this time real, within the health sector. Thus, a mechanism that would increase the efficiency of care provision. Even though I think we're cutting down and asking the health department to do something else and save money, we can't do that anymore. Probably my last sentence. Let me remind you of Prime Minister Fiala's statement. "The policy of our government is clear from the start. We help those who cannot help themselves with the effects. We're not gonna let anybody fall. But it is not in the possibilities of state finance, and it would not be reasonable for us to give support to everyone across the board, to take measures on the surface. It wouldn't make sense." So what I'm saying is that I don't understand as a paramedic that, in pursuit of your budgetary responsibility, you want to disrupt the funding of our health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u121	Your performance brought up two factual points. Mr. Mr. Brázdil. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u122	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, you may know - house spiro spero. Since we've been through some Latin, doctors, we know that while I'm breathing, I hope. It's a very, very, emotional password, a motto that even uses six hundred and one. I served there as former paratrooper chief of health services in Prostějov. And by the way, all the paramedics know this. That as long as one breathes, or at least has gasping, terminal lapping three breaths, there's still a chance to defib him, and then there's still a chance to intubate him, give him adrenaline, and again, let's say, restore heartbeat. I hope - and I am responding to Jana Pastuchová - that it will not end like yesterday on the Social Policy Committee there, that there was no opinion. That in the end all of you, of us, cheers for the paramedics, the mountain service, and the rescue service, and that in the end, what we've all raised our hands for, that we're just gonna make it possible. Well, I'm still hoping while I'm breathing. By the way, even the health minister who left gave a clear view that yes, that is not a problem. Paramedics calmly, those 50 people and those two maybe from the mountain service in a year, if they don't prosecute, they'll just be able to leave. So I still hope, unlike Jana, that I was sad after yesterday, that all the days aren't over yet and the eight days aren't over. 7. - and I hope the paramedics will do their best - by sending your statements to your Members, Ministers, on the way, although you are apolitical, we are an apolitical organization. So they'll know, so they'll understand. I may be misinterpreting this, but do your best. So this is my kind of technical, although it's a little off. But it's not entirely. Actually, it's also about paramedics, although it's not about money from this budget right now, but it's about money somewhere else, so that would be another shot to the paramedics. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u123	The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mrs Adámková. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mrs Pastuchová's speech and to clarify and supplement some things. We have three things that are very significant about then, of course, the payments that go through health care. There is one thing that we have not touched here - I again think it will be a problem - and that is paying back things. You know that some of our supplies are partially paid for, and the patient has to pay extra for something, as well as for medication. I don't see enough resources out there to relieve the child in the event of accidents. This means that we have completely other things and other options to cover so-called light plaster, other braces and the like. Other things are fillings, please nicely. We must heed the regulation of the European Union. We don't have a problem with that, I don't think anybody here. That means they're not amalgam seals, except for the exceptions. The white seal, as I'm sure you know, is certainly good for the baby's tooth. But she pays for it. And I have to say, once again, many parents here say that they just don't have funding. In this increase that we have, it just won't have any further. I am not talking about private stomatologists who, of course, are bound by completely different contractual relationships with their client. I'm talking about those who go to the office where there's a dentist who has a contract with a health insurance company. We don't have the means. The last thing I want to explain is what's going through the media today, it's completely new. Although the Deputy Minister of Health said that he was expecting a wave of covid again in the fall and that the tests would not be covered. So in this case, I really want to know what we're going to do in January, in February, because we're not going to have the money. They will not be in this, nor will they be paid at all. So we're not investigating? I'm just asking, I'm a clinic. So we're gonna order people to respirators, which means there's some kind of burden here, I agree with that, I don't have a problem, and we're gonna tell people right now that we're not gonna pay for the tests. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] That's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mrs Mádlová will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u126	Thank you. I'd like to fill in Professor Adámková with the payments. Because the same is, as I have already said, in homes for seniors and homes with a special regime where there has been an increase in participation in inko aids, that is, for diaper panties if the client or patient has urinary incontinence. Of course, it is true that according to the prescription before it is prescribed, the condition, i.e. incontinence, or rather a degree, must be carefully investigated. Indeed, even those clients' families are in a situation where they are really considering how many diapers they can buy, because most of the time, the prescription isn't always enough for the needs or degree of incontinence of the client. So this is also a rather serious problem, and even in this segment there are serious concerns that the involvement of patients will increase. I would also like to point out that in this segment, there is already an increase in the fees for medicines. Which, of course, is just bad news to pay for staying in these facilities, where clients with serious diseases and dementia levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u127	Thank you for keeping time. That was a factual point. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Mašek will have the floor. Let me just remind you that at 1:00 p.m., if you have a longer speech, I'm going to have to interrupt you because a recess will be announced and the Organizing Committee will meet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u128	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking here about the money that I believe will be missing in health care. We've already talked here about how there might be a consensus on the difference, that's 4.8 billion, and that there could probably be an agreement. But I'd like to fight for the money. I think there's a point. I therefore call on the Minister of Finance to consider this. And that's why I'm going to let you guys read about what it looked like in health care when we started working with him in 2017 when we got the post of Health Minister, what we were able to do in health care. And I'd like to make a statement on these individual points that I can't do without money. And without the money, the level we've reached cannot be maintained. [[12.50 hours]] Health has always been a priority for our government. When the ANO movement was put into the administration of the Ministry of Health in 2017, the resort was relatively in a secluded state. After years of clientelism, corruption, tunneling and strange privatization under the supervision of traditional political parties, Czech health services became a black hole in money. Literally. To improve care, new devices, modern innovative medications, shorter waiting times for procedures and the electronicisation of health care, citizens could only dream of doing so. The paramedics were similarly involved. Their salaries stagnate for many years, leaving abroad for a better one. However, different gallbladders and lobbyists had a good time. Health corruption was even so extensive that the European Commission issued a special report on it in 2013. When the resort came under the ANO movement in 2017, it launched a real revolution in health care. A revolution that has made Czech health care one of the best in Europe today, perhaps worldwide, and which has remained free and accessible to everyone. Within four years of our health services in the government, we have supported huge amounts and launched unprecedented investments. We began to focus on everything that traditional parties neglected for many years, from the reconstruction of hospitals, the construction of new pavilions, and the provision of state-of-the-art medicines and equipment, to the dignified remuneration of our doctors and nurses and auxiliary staff. We've put a record amount of money into health care. Since 2017, we have systematically increased the amount of money to health care. While in 2017 it was 322 billion, in 2021 it was already more than 550 billion crowns. Long-term criticized low health expenditure ratio in the Czech Republic in 2011 (?) exceeded 10 per cent of GDP. Over the four years, our government's share in health has increased from 7.2% in the long term to more than 10 percent of GDP and we have moved significantly within the European Union. In absolute terms, health spending increased by 228 billion between 2017 and 2021, while between 2010 and 2016, it was only 18 billion. Since 2017, the amount of state insurance payments has more than doubled, which is what we are currently talking about. And I believe that the trend must be maintained. And that's where the valorization mechanism really makes sense, and it's about talking about the base we're going to be coming from. Growth was particularly marked between 2020 and 2021. We negotiated 50 billion out of European funds for health care. The Ministry of Health and its hospitals from national sources invested almost CZK 17 billion in the modernisation and reconstruction of hospitals and another CZK 5.5 billion in the renewal of instrument equipment. And thanks to the REACT program, our health care will get another 20 billion to buy state-of-the-art equipment. So this resort has been spent enormous money all along our government, and other programs have been started to strengthen the resort. The transparency of the resort has increased significantly. Of course, we have also tried to take a number of steps towards transparency and more efficient management of our health care. We have introduced fairer rules for elections to administrative and supervisory councils and opened them up to insured people. We have pushed through the combined purchases of hospitals, where hospitals are newly buying medical supplies, medicines, and it brings great savings. All of this, even though we put money in there, but it can't be enough for the future. This cannot be enough because we are currently facing extreme inflation, i.e. general price increases, and also not only the increase in material, but also the normal consumer material that is consumed in the health sector by tons, which requires ordinary office paper, but also energy, which we need to take into account. And that energy consumption has not been taken into account in our proposals for further growth in finance into health care. So there's a lot of reasons to keep the money for health care at least the amount we set up under our government. The remuneration decrees under our government can be called groundbreaking because it has been shown that both health insurance payers and health establishments can find common ground and can agree on health care conditions. And I consider it a unique matter, because it has almost unanimously been repeated several times in a row. In terms of salaries and personnel situation - we discussed this today, Dr Kaňkovský, through Mr President, called on us to go see the Highlands, how miserable it is with practices, how bad it is with dentists. And here I would like to point out that we tried to go ahead and that, indeed, under our government, the number of medical school students has increased. Of course, my colleague Farhan, through Mr President, stressed that this was a long time ago. The doctor after, or the future doctor after he starts to study the faculty, it takes about ten, twelve years before he can basically be fully involved in the provision of medical care in some way. However, I would like to stress that we have also devoted a great deal of attention to the issue of salaries and social security for doctors, nurses and medical assistants, and we have been able, for example, to increase the average income of doctors in 2021 to CZK 101 000, which is more than 2.7 times the average wage. We reached a limit of CZK 58 200 gross income for nurses and middle medical staff, which is 1.6 times the average wage in the Czech Republic. And I note that in 2013 it was less than 59 000 crowns for doctors and about 28 000 crowns for nurses. So when we ask where the money went, they went primarily to the salaries of the medical staff. And here I am pointing out for those who don't know what it looks like in health care establishments, and how much percent of the health care facility's expenditure is money that's intended for wages, so it's about 70 to 80 percent. So, of course, these wage increases mean a great deal of burden to those medical facilities, but on the other hand, without staff, the quality of medicine really can't be done. I therefore turn again to what I have already indicated here, when Dr Kaňkovský, through Mr President, pointed out the poor personnel situation in some areas of the Republic with health care workers, so that we are going to reduce and limit the supply of funds to the health sector, does not improve this situation, but, of course, logically, can only make it worse. [[13.00 hours]] Besides the future doctors, of course, we've devoted ourselves to nurses. With nurses in the past, we may have made it difficult to teach those sisters by hand, whether it was a coalition or opposition. We complicated it because I remember the time when the nurses had such good practical training in hospitals after four years that they were able to participate fairly fully and after about six months of work such a nurse was full. In a negative sense, we managed to shift the education to the level that the secondary health school had basically become a sort of preparation, mainly theoretical, which then needs to be completed, whether it was a form of post-graduate education or currently a bachelor's education. We are aware of this, we are discussing the problem on the Health Committee as well, and we do not know exactly how to find a reasonable way back. But it's one of the things that would be very helpful and helpful in terms of qualified personnel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u129	Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock. I have to interrupt. Of course, when we get back to discussing the point, I'll give you your word back. It is 13 o'clock, and I am declaring an hour and a half to 14.30, as is the agreement of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs, and just reminding you that there is an organizational committee at 13 o'clock. So, enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue today's special meeting, we are at the point of the Government's draft law on insurance against public health insurance. But at this point, I don't see any minister, so I'm gonna have to read my apologies at this point. If there was no one present, I would have to suspend the meeting until a minister arrived. So at the moment I will be able to read the apology of Marek Ženíšek, today between 14:30 and 15:00 for work reasons, there is an apology of Radim Fiala from 14:30 to the end of the day for work reasons, Ivo Vondrák apologizes between 18:00 and midnight, until the end of the meeting, because of negotiations in the electoral region, there is also an apology of Mr Josef Bělica, today between 18:00 and midnight, until the end of the day, for work reasons and last apology - Jan Kuchař today between 12:30 and midnight, until the end of the hearing day, for working reasons. So that was all the apologies. Because at this point, I don't really see a minister, so at this point, I'd like to interrupt the meeting for five minutes because there's no minister present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the meeting. The draftsman and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is already present. At the same time, I see the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, and he is also in his place. Before I give the floor in the general debate, I would like to read one apology that has just arrived. Mr Havránek apologizes today between 15:30 and 17:00 for work reasons. We are now in the general debate, and I would like Mr Jiří Mašek to come, who was already interrupted at 13:00. I'd take the liberty of giving him my word. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues, in the first part of my speech, I tried to reiterate the reasons why the health sector needs enough funding, and the reasons I have said so far were that it was necessary to get to a higher percentage of GDP, namely from 7 to 10 percent over a few years, which we have been able to do, and I argued here that it is necessary to maintain this percentage. I was talking about how we made the health department more transparent in the past government, so it wasn't just about pouring money in there, but at the same time keeping an eye on what the money was spent on. I was talking here about the combined purchases of hospitals, the debt of certain hospitals, the payment decrees, the fact that they have repeatedly reached a complete consensus in conciliation between the payers and health care providers. I mentioned the salaries and personnel situation here that we managed to increase the salaries of doctors 2.7 times and increase the salaries of nurses 1.6 times, and it became a certain stabilizing element, with the fact that, of course, this is not the only measure. This was also the mentioned increase in the number of students of medical faculties or secondary health schools. Now I will get to other reasons why health care needs to be given enough money. There is tremendous pressure at present on the electronization of health care. After perhaps well-intentioned but poorly executed IZIP, which basically slowed down the electronization, we got to the point that we had significantly shifted the electronization during the previous government. Perhaps the most important change for citizens was the introduction of eRecipe, which increases not only safety when dispensing drugs, but especially comfort for patients, since eRecipe can be prescribed by doctor remotely, send text messages, email or other applications. People don't have to go to the office for a prescription anymore, but they can go straight to the pharmacy. From 1 January 2022, products containing highly addictive substances can be prescribed to eRecipe, or another shift that was only available through the so-called blue strip recipe. And from March 1, 2022, ePoukáz na zdravících státky also works on the same principle. So eRecept to doctors and patients was very helpful in providing health care, for example, in the covideo pandemic. But they were also other applications, Smart Quarantine, eRouška, Dotka, eTecka, Telemedicina, especially benefits for chronic patients who do not often have to commute to their doctor. Two telemedical centres were created at Olomouc and Ostrava University Hospital. There's a lot of health costs again. We have passed the very first law that develops electronic communication in health care with effect from 1 January 2022 and thanks to it it will be possible to share data safely electronically between health care providers, insurance companies and patients, thereby reducing the administrative burden on health professionals. And that is also the point of removing medical personnel from unnecessary administrative activity so that they have more time and capacity in the care of patients. Patients will have quickly and easily available information from their medical documentation. A shared drug record of the patient also works, thanks to which the doctor knows what medications the patient is taking, so he can better set up and monitor his treatment and monitor undesirable interactions. This prevents not only duplicate drugs, but also protects the doctor (?) before adverse combinations that could harm his (?) Health. From 1 January 2022, eInoculation also works. In addition to the overview of prescribed medications, each newly electronically recorded record of all vaccinations completed. We have established a national information portal with verified health information in one place and under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, where citizens will find information about diseases, healthy nutrition, vaccinations. The portal offers advice in various life situations and help where to find a doctor and where to look for information. Strangely enough, money is needed. Finally, we have made available data from the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control, which increases public awareness of the quality, performance and availability of health care. The quality of care, as Professor Špičák has also mentioned here, through Madam President, with regard to the number of performances and their results among medical devices, we have already started measuring. Together with the Health Insurance Office, we have created a portal for health service quality indicators and we have started a system of national assessment of patient satisfaction. In fact, there's still a lot of work to make it work perfectly. As far as medicines and medical devices are concerned, our goal was to increase the availability of innovative medicines and make medicines for rare diseases available to patients. With effect from 1 January 2022, a new system for authorising reimbursements shall apply, where a collective advisory body will play a key role in deciding on the entry of such a drug into the system. For the first time in history, we have also involved patients themselves in deciding on the reimbursement of medicines. For example, medicines for cystic fibrosis, muscle dystrophy, and various haematooncological diagnoses. For patients suffering from chronic pain that are not being treated with other medicines, we have been working together in the House to make 90 percent of the health insurance company pay for therapeutic cannabis, which makes the amount of surcharges comparable today to that of common pain medications. In addition, we changed the law by significantly increasing the number of cannabis growers, leading to an increase in its availability and price reduction, i.e. the supplement for patients. We have increased the protection of people from counterfeits, according to the model of regulation of gambling sites, since 1 January 2022. The State Institute for Drug Control has the power to block websites offering untested or fake drugs. As with drugs, we have involved patients in deciding on the payment of medical aids. After all, the number of paid medical aids under our government has widened considerably. And we worked together on this and the coalition within the Health Committee. An example is individual trolleys, where the second mechanical trolley is currently covered by patients. We have tightened the quality control of medical devices and advertising conditions. And now I'm getting to a very serious point, and that's the fight against cancer. Of course, the fight against cancer requires enormous financial support. The population is getting older, we are seeing an epidemic of not only chronic diseases, but also an epidemic of cancer that is about to become the greatest killer in a few years. For four whole years of our government, this is why we have focused on combating oncological diseases, which (?) temporarily eclipsed the covide pandemic. That is why we supported the development of large-scale screening programmes. Since 1 January 2022 we have launched a general screening focused on lung cancer and the age limit for preventive colonoscopy we have reduced to 50 years. We directed CZK 10.5 billion into treatment and prevention of cancer, and another CZK 14.5 billion was negotiated from European funds. We have developed a national plan to combat cancer and published a great brochure on the dangers of cancer. [[15.00 hours]] Primary care reform. This is another point of relatively fundamental importance. If the health system is to function well, primary care, i.e. the system of practitioners, must function effectively first. Their potential was not sufficiently exploited in the past, so the reform of primary care was one of the priorities of the ANO movement. We strengthened the role of practices, gave them greater opportunity to prescribe drugs and enabled them to provide new services, especially prescription drugs to chronically ill patients. We also supported the emergence of collective practices so that more doctors could use one practice. The entire reform is aimed at finally becoming a primary contact point for the patient. This is actually happening now, and the practical physician is also gaining more powers from the perspective of the crisis and the possibility of treatment in his office. In addition, we have introduced a new concept of medical emergency services and developed a plan according to which emergency services are associated with urgent income so that, in acute cases, the practice behind his back is fully supported by the hospital, complement and hospital specialists. The concept of urgent care is another huge step, for which I am very happy personally as director of the county medical rescue service, because we saw the deficit every day when the field ambulance was able to provide services, life saving performances, at a high-quality level, but then the transfer to the hospital could have been a major problem. This is being addressed by the urgent income system, when 78 emergency services were decided to be created in former district hospitals, and they should be built over the course of several years and managed to use European subsidy titles on them. I consider this to be one of the points that is absolutely essential for the quality survival of patients and the entry of those patients into hospitals. For colleagues who do not know this issue - and I wish them not to get to know it - this also means that not only the ambulance drives patients there, but the emergency income is a universal entrance, such a funnel, to the hospital and the patient has the opportunity to be treated out of the hospital, including the laboratory, imaging methods and can soon be released home. So it's the "emergency" part of the urgent income that practical doctors are involved in. But there may also be a few hours of observation, treatment, and after a few hours of observation, it is either admitted to the hospital or released again with a discharge report, but after proper examination and healing, home. This significantly reduces the costs of those who are sick, where when such an urgent income is not available, patients often have to be hospitalized unnecessarily and it means even weekly or several days of hospitalization and significantly higher costs. These are also organizational steps that save money as a result. But first, we need to put the money into the health care system so that we can then save effectively and provide significantly better care for patients. From the next points, I must mention the reform of mental health care, when we founded 30 mental health care centres in order to have a total of 100. In fact, not even the investment costs of building them are the biggest brake at the moment, but a significant lack of experts in this area. However, this fills the so-called deinstitutionalisation of psychiatric care, a global trend, and even the Czech Republic cannot avoid it. On the issue of home care - I would also like to emphasise this. Domestic care saves significantly in the result because home care is four to five times cheaper than hospital care. We paid a lot of attention to this and spent quite a lot of money on home care, and these started to be affected by lower hospital burdens. So home care was on the rise, but according to my latest information, at least from home care, this segment now feels heavily usurped, and it is one of the areas where there has been a disagreement so far. Development of palliative and spiritual care in the Czech Republic. 70 percent of patients die in hospitals. In terms of the ethics of dying, it often seems to be a delay when those families have no other solution. The palliative and spiritual care that is now being given considerable money is necessary, and there must be a shift. There's no way a quarter of the population is dying in hospitals. The care is expensive, but in a way, even in terms of care analgesics, it is very important for people to die as far as possible in their own environment, but under conditions where they do not suffer. Of course, we also supported homeless care from other points. We supported volunteering. I would still mention a significant point that succeeded in the past period, that was the air rescue agreement, which is quite a large cost from the state budget. Here it is true that this service is largely paid by the Ministry of Health, but staff, medicines, own buildings, their operation and the like are paid in performances and health insurance. So there's a combined payment. However, it is important that this service has been negotiated for eight years in advance, clearly specified. The number of bases that have 24-hour service has been expanded, that is to say night service, and are clearly defined bases where they can and are trained to work under a helicopter, or intervene in in inaccessible terrain, for example in mountain terrain and so on. So here I consider it a great success, and perhaps a joint success. I will not only take this on the coalition at the time, because in the past, the air rescue service was the subject of a major dispute, and the selection procedures for operators were often postponed, and it took even a few years. So here we managed at once, we managed to well specify the conditions for this service, and if I have good information, we even saved about one billion on that eight-year contract. So it's more of a thank you here and across the House and the people who were involved. Another thing that has also been put in place is compensation for the damage caused by vaccination, which is a very important thing. When the vaccination is ordered, the State should, of course, be responsible for any adverse effects and should in some way compensate for these effects. Such a point, which seems rather not very crucial, but important at the time of inflation and significant food price increases, is the need for a revolution in hospital eating. Food is an important part of health care provided in hospitals and is closely related to satisfaction, but also to the health of patients. After 65 years, the standards for eating patients have changed to match the 21st century. Just look at what's going on with food prices today, and even in this seemingly marginal item, it's going to be a huge burden for hospitals. Health services lost 20 billion thanks to government cuts this year, which, of course, will manifest itself in care. Even without coming (?) it was clear that the number of patients who could benefit from innovative cancer treatment would fall. There won't be money for everyone needed for biological chemotherapy. I know it sounds awful like that, but it will apply gradually. Because now the money is, now the patients are getting in, now the treatment is starting. But if the money starts to run out of the system, it's going to be pushed away, and the treatment will be delayed. And the signs are already manifesting, and the concerns among the doctors are now. It is a question of whether the reduction in the income of health insurance companies, as a result, cannot be linked to the possibility of privatisation or to the targeted problems of certain health insurance companies. Because the insurance companies are not all in their optimal condition and, according to experts, there are up to three health insurance companies that may not survive these state interventions in the future. [[15.10 hours]] It is likely that health cuts are also being prepared by the government for charging part of medical care in the Czech Republic. After all, the current Minister of Health has admitted this possibility in the past. Moreover, this concept would not be removed from the TOP 09 and ODS for the first time. This government does not want to continue adding health workers, and in fact, the previous government's decision to add 6% is just coming up. The new government has even stopped wage increases for non-medical professions in the Health Department altogether. And that is a step that, of course, is very problematic because those salaries for non-medical professions in health care are relatively low and health professionals cannot do without cooperation with this category of workers. The budget, however, does not count on any increase in energy prices and the mentioned inflation, where hospitals have radically increased energy costs, and as I said, food for patients is becoming more expensive, drugs, laundry services and so on. Now I'd like to stop by the refugee category and the health insurance paid for the refugees. Refugees should be registered according to the latest data of around 380 000. So far, according to the information, the balance is really balanced, or what the refugees cost us, so roughly that income is now coming from the health insurance that is being paid for it, to the insurance companies. So at this point, we're not losing those refugees. However, there are many unknowns. Since the registration of refugees at the regional registration centres, on the so-called KACPU shortcuts, took place quickly, we are boasting, but in a way ruthlessly and without obtaining sufficient data. So, for example, if I have the right information, a little over 50,000 refugees have been accommodated through KACPU, and we've got a pretty good idea of where they should be. But when physical checks are done, they're not often there. And the rest of it, which is over 300,000 people, we don't know that at all. Now, within the last law of Lex Ukraine, we're trying to tighten it up, and we want these people to make a statement about some residence in the Czech Republic. But it's all very complicated. We really do not even know how many refugees we have in the Czech Republic. It's a problem. On the one hand, I could put my hands together for health care because I'm thinking excellently, so hundreds of thousands of refugees receive health insurance payments for health insurance people as state health insurance people. But it can't leave me completely calm, and I believe that it doesn't leave the Minister of Finance completely calm, or shouldn't. On the other hand, we listen very often here to information such as that there are 70,000 Ukrajinec, that they already work here and take away health insurance. I was trying to get it from the health insurance company. And today, I've been given the data that health insurance is currently taking out less than 41,000 health insurance people, information from the VZP. And if I were to ask how much it was a year ago, I don't have the answer yet. But then by subtracting it, we would certainly find that the addition of those working Ukrajinec who pay health insurance could move somewhere, perhaps between 30 and 40,000. I don't know how many Ukrajinec took health insurance last year, but I'm sure it would be interesting information. So here we see that the information about the refugees is completely different. Nobody really knows anything exactly, it's not well captured. I leave the health issue of refugees, their vaccination against diseases, the incidence of HIV and so on aside, because I do not take it at all as a matter of, say, financial. This may be a financial issue in the case of longer stays and the need for specialised treatment of certain diseases, such as HIV or tuberculosis and so on, but I do not think that is a major problem at present. What awaits us, however, and I will help myself with what the media has published today, Professor Dušek's statement, which informs of the threat of the summer wave of the covid epidemic. Fortunately, this covid, if it is found to a greater extent, does not produce critical clinical images that would send these people to an intensive care unit or immediately endanger them with life. However, we'll see what the development is. But what I have taken from this is what is essential and what may be related to the economy and what should be of interest to the Minister of Finance is that Professor Dušek assumes that several million people will have to be vaccinated in the autumn, or to use several million vaccine doses. It is expected that we will buy vaccines that - these preparations will already be modified in some way to a new form of the covid and will certainly cost a few funds. Another reason why the reserve should be there and why we should leave the basis for the calculation for the valorization formula at the level of the first half of 2022, or at the 1,1967 crowns, because we really need that reserve there, for example, for the vaccination. In addition, this vaccination concerns a senior category, or such a donkey bridge actually concerns those people for whom the State pays for health insurance workers to the system takes or gives. I'd end my performance with about a few numbers. So minus 14 billion for health insurance companies, minus 8 billion for the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. For this, the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic also means, I suspect, less than 150 million for the health service. And it is - instead of strengthening - a significant weakening of the sanitary service. Let me just remind you what happened around the sanitary service, how we all fought in our breasts at the time of the covid, with the need to strengthen this service. The opposite is true. So if we're talking about the billions, I'd like to help myself with some number. Specifically, one district hospital of a smaller type has an annual turnover of 1.2 billion. We're talking about the 4.8 billion of the difference between your proposed valorization base and ours. It's not really small money. It's money that means a year-round turnover of four smaller district hospitals. And let me remind you again, for the last time, that we have no regard for the rise in energy at all. [[prices]] The steps that the government is taking, even though some steps have already been made public, I would like to get an explanation as to how this will affect, for example, the consumption of hospital energy, how much it will save, actually how we will help them. I understand we can help individuals, we've already gotten to something there. But helping hospitals that are energy-intensive, there's no way to turn off anything, no heating, no electricity, so there's one thing. The second thing is that we don't have 16% started here, maybe 20% of inflation is assumed, which affects those hospitals and medical facilities in all purchases, so the price of all purchases that awaits them is not taken into account again. So that's a nice drawing you've got there. It really works on numbers like this year. But, Minister of Finance, it can't go on for the next year and the next years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I'll ask Mr. Michal Kučera to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u134	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would just like to say to my speaker, who read us the text here, places and with obvious difficulties, who listed the achievements of the YES movement during the reign of Andrej Babiš and the Ministry of Health under the leadership of several ministers, I think the last one was Mr Vojtěch, if I remember correctly, to add one more number to the text. And that number is 30,000. Thirty thousand dead in covid at the time of the reign of the ANO movement. [[Punching the benches in the left side of the hall.]] And experts, if we're looking at an evaluation of the situation today, the experts say that part of these deaths really goes to the fault of the chaotic and non-conceptionist government of the ANO movement, namely Andrej Babiš and the Minister of Health. So, Mr. Ambassador, 30,000. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u135	Thank you for keeping time. Your performance raised three more factual points. I would like Mr. Jiří Mašek to come to the speaker's desk, Berenika Peštová and David Kasal will prepare. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u136	Well, thank you, Madam President. I have to comment on this because I really know the numbers, I've watched the whole covid detail day by day, it didn't leave me calm. When I was able to look at his solution, I tried to make sure it was on the Health Committee for example a meeting on the vaccination of seniors and so on, so I'm gonna tell you something about those numbers. The last time I counted was when the last wave went out. Let's say, sometime in April, the last wave was still occurring, but few people are dying, but even dozens of people died every day in April. And when it's calculated since your reign and it's calculated, about six months ago, for the eight months of the previous waves that were in the previous, it'd be oddly thirty-thirty if it went on like this. Do you know why it doesn't go on like that? Because we inoculated 75 percent of the population. Otherwise, as you went on, if we weren't so inoculated, God be with us and evil be gone. It'd be a lot worse. I'll give you the numbers. With a little goodwill, you'd find them yourself. So what you said here was a heavy underhand. You're comparing a time when no one knew anything about the covid, when we actually went from day to day, and your comfortable situation, for which you couldn't inoculate 300,000 seniors, even though we said the problem here, together we dealt with it on the health committee. The absent Minister of Health said he could do it. He didn't do anything. He promised to buy Novavax, a new generation vaccine that was bought for you $700,000 and was vaccinated for about 3.5,000. You just didn't do anything! And the only thing I want to say to you is that if these people hadn't been vaccinated for us, it would have been a massacre. [[Prime Minister, time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u137	Another person who is registered with a factual remark is Mrs Berenika Peštová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u138	Well, thank you for your word. Of course, my previous speaker, Jirka Mašek, was quicker, so he basically said the maximum I wanted to say. But I would like to say here to Mr Kučera, who is not here, through Madam President: You are a hero! You're gonna bark something up, and then you're gonna run out the door fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr David Kasal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to say something similar in the sense that if Mr Kučera speaks, it is always a pearl, and this time it was similar. I'll just fill in Dr. Mašek's numbers. The vaccination for you was less than 1%. And I will be as demagogic - 10,000 lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u141	Thank you for keeping time. We have one final point of fact here, and with that is Mr. Julius Špičák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this statement by Mr Kučera was indeed completely below the belt, therefore absolutely purposeful and completely unfounded. Let him say which expert thus called death during the covid, which is, of course, in itself indisputable, a political error. It's just nonsense. Let him identify what particular political error it was. It's not just that, it's a set of circumstances. The epidemic is essentially unpredictable for the whole world. I don't hesitate to think that he didn't look at current statistics, so he doesn't know how the epidemic is developing at the same time. So it really was a completely gross political underhand, completely unfounded, which I clearly reject by your means.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I do not have another factual point here, so we are going back to the general debate to which Mr Lubomír Wenzl is duly registered. I'm going to ask him to come to the speaker's desk, and, Mr. Ambassador, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u144	Madam President, Mr Finance Minister, colleagues, many have been said, but what I would like to say in the context of this point, I will also say things that have not yet been said here today or in the past. So, in a nutshell. It must be said that the health system in our Republic is at a very high quality level, and what is important, health care is available to all citizens of our country. It should be said here that health care providers and, in particular, those whose founder is the public sector receive revenue from their care for patients of 99 per cent from the public health insurance system and, at the same time, a large part of the health performance provided is provided to state-owned insured persons. Health care in this past period has been significant, not saying one of the main pillars in terms of managing the Coronavirus, and health professionals have mastered the situation thanks to their enormous deployment. The situation that arose as a result of the fight against the epidemic has affected the citizens, the patients. It was limited, at some point in time and stopped elective care, but it is necessary to provide this care because the need for patients did not disappear, it was merely postponed. And health care, or health professionals, are trying to make the most of the care that could not have been provided in the past period. A large number of patients are still waiting for the planned, often several times due to the situation postponed, and among them are people of working age who are interested in getting back to work as soon as possible, and at this point they are limited by their illness by waiting in the usual way of life. There has been an increase in the number of performances that have been postponed over the past period and, at the same time, it is necessary for this care to be paid from the public health insurance system. It is still true that the health care provider is limited in some expertise, how many individual performances he can perform, whether they are surgical disciplines, as already mentioned, especially orthopedics, in terms of total joint endoproteses and so on. And at the end of each year, and so it was in the previous period, individual providers had to ask insurance companies to raise the limit, the budget they could use to provide the care. This is the part of health care, that is, there is an increase in performances, there is a reduction in the number of those waiting for planned performances, but what goes on, and it is a significant factor and will continue to enter into the activities of health care providers, is an enormous increase in energy prices and materials necessary for the functioning of these providers. At the same time, this is also true in the case of ideas, investment plans, whether in immovable property, but also in the case of modernization of instrument equipment. [[15.30 hours]] At this point, I would like to disagree with the Minister of Health, as he mentioned in the morning the situation with regard to applications for approval projects under the Ministry's Instrument Commission. The Minister himself knows from his work within the faculty hospital that it is not an ad hoc hospital management decision that we will decide to get a machine, a modern method, we will implement and ask the Ministry or, as a matter of fact, an instrument committee, if it is over CZK 5 million, that we will go to that committee. It's always a long-standing process to make it a yes, to create a project and we have staff, we have staff trained for it, the need based on the statistics here is in the region or in the area for it, which is why the hospital with the application goes to the instrument committee. In the area of investment, it's already you who move, so you know, investment in real estate, it's really a long run and it's really not done day to day or half a year to half a year, it's a multi-year preparation, it's the beginning at all, the first stage until it starts building. In the case of energy, in the case of gas, and I have data for two hospitals of the district type that manage around CZK 1.2 billion in turnover, it is about 500 beds of acute care, so in the case of gas and electricity only this year an increase in the amount and against the planned amount of approximately 25 to 30 percent. Nobody knows what's gonna happen next year. Material. The material necessary for the operation of the medical facility has partly mentioned, by your means, Madam President, my colleague Pastuchová. It's medical material, it's fuel for... in the case of a health service provider who owns an ambulance car, it's laundry, it's a patient's diet. That means, the bed-care provider, he's going to get all the price increases we're fighting right now, and he's going to continue to grow in the future. As the Minister of Finance said, we're having some sort of conversation... or some sort of contradiction, a discussion about about the sum of CZK 48 billion. So I want to say, for the health facility, as I mentioned, which has a budget of approximately CZK 1.2 billion, so over that year, this amount of 1.1 percent, if I quote correctly, it's about CZK 10 to 15 million per year for the health facility. And that, I'm saying, is the amount that any director or management can imagine, if I have what I'm getting, and if I don't have what I have to postpone or completely interrupt. So I want to conclude by saying that, in the case of the approval of this amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, the system will lose funds of approximately CZK 14 billion. And I, even after the debate that has been held here over the past period and today, am still not convinced that this step, if it comes to approval, will not result in a reduction in the quality of health care provided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u145	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr David Kasal is the next one to be entered in the general debate. I'm just gonna respond because I have some news coming in that he doesn't see Mr. Finance Minister, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura. So I just want to know who can't see, because there may be no camera, that the Minister of Finance is present in the hall so everyone knows he's present and listening. So, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I am only allowed to say a few things because my colleagues have already said something and I would just follow up. And to be absolutely specific, it's always best on a specific matter, the Minister likes numbers, I thank him for calculating the 4.8 billion and I would continue. It was said here that it was - 1.2 billion is one district hospital. In that year, the county hospital will treat some 15-16,000 people in bed care and about 40,000 other people in outpatient care. So we can convert it, the 4.8 billion, even to a specific number of treatments that won't be in the system at the moment. So that's one particular number. I would also like to say that, although it was said by my colleague here a while ago, I will try to say this quite normally for non-medical people. Of course, money that goes to hospitals comes from public health insurance, comes once a month, and comes after when we doctors give diagnosis according to DRG. That means there's a certain amount of money for every diagnosis that doesn't increase. There is a specific amount of money for each diagnosis, and it can only be increased if the patient is in some way complicated. So the increase in the health care money is given, or the banishment is due to this. Yes, it is preceded by an argument procedure that is for individual segments. But what I'm saying is that income is simply limited and clearly given. We can then ask for a certain increase if there is capacity, but that is only put back into a certain framework. It's for hospitals. Of course, there's part of the outpatients, so the treated patients' so-called points are then paid for, the funding for the points. For primary care and care in other segments, so in primary care is the part directly behind the declared points and then there is the part lump-sum. But again, when the basic agreement is concluded, there's an increase in the number of points or the number of cents per point. And in the situation that has been said here, how energy payments and other performances are going to happen, so the medical facilities, whether private or state, are going to be difficult to assess, because the inflation that is currently here has not been here for twenty years. And it's hard to get it to unravel so it can be seen. I have to say that a specific example of increasing one small thing that is used a lot in health care is A4 paper. Two and a half thousand leaves today we approved of the VZP, so a year ago this package cost CZK 260, currently costs CZK 420 to CZK 470, and we are not at the end of the year where the prices will go on. So I'd just like to point out how the pressure will only be in this particular one thing on the load of individual ambulances. I spoke to a colleague yesterday, and he told me what it would look like at the end of the year. So he says, of course, there are two options. One option is that either we can't take it anymore, in which case a number of surgeries, where the doctor concerned is older, pre-retirement or retirement age, can close the office and the care will not be provided. And the second version of the younger ones, and we're not here in the '90s when everyone's head is down, so he says, "Okay, I'm gonna cancel a health insurance contract and I'm gonna want to treat for cash." I'm gonna want to heal for cash. And by doing that, we can shake up the health system in a significant way, because everyone who wants to be treated for the insurance system is going to be overwhelmed by the already flooded income of hospitals, both faculty and district. In terms of the system's foresight, so you yourself have said and follow up on wanting - and I welcome that there will be a system of valorisation for the payment of state insured persons. However, even the paramedics with foresight had planned what income would be. Now they're going to be minus 4.8 billion lower. And as I am not only myself, but also my colleagues have made arguments here, we think that not only by the end of the year will there be a problem with health care, but even more will be written into the following years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u147	Thank you, too. That was - I was thinking of the last contribution to the general debate, but I see that more have come forward. So, at this point, Mrs Martina Lisová is in the general debate. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would like to table an amendment to this press concerning orthodontics. About the newly proposed article II: In the framework of the reform of the remuneration of orthodontic care carried out by Act No. 371/2021 Coll. in Law No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, as amended, provided for a transitional period in Article II (11) of the transitional provision to ensure sufficient time for the recovery of insured persons who had been entitled to reimbursement of this orthodontic treatment from public health insurance until the end of the previous legislation and who had lost this entitlement due to age exceeding 22 years of age. This transitional period should be based on the usual duration of orthodontic treatment for a maximum of two years set for two years in order to give time to treat all cured patients. In view of the postponement of the hearing of Act No. 371/2021 Coll. However, there was a situation in the Chamber of Deputies that the transitional period laid down by the end of 2022, which was originally to be two years long, was expected to be effective from 1 January 2021 - in the end, due to the entry into force of the Act only from 1 January 2022, is only one year. The amendment proposed in Article II is a transitional period provided for by Law No 371/2021 Coll. suggests extending the orthodontic apparatus to two years in accordance with the original intention of the petitioner to treat some cured insured persons with an orthodontic apparatus. The modification was consulted with the Czech Stomatological Chamber, which agreed with it. Health insurance companies estimate the costs of extending the transitional period for 2023 to approximately CZK 90 to 100 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u149	Thank you, too, Madame. And I will ask you, of course, to sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate. I see you're already logged in. Now the Minister of Health has informed me that he would like to sign up with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u150	I will just try very briefly to explain some things, and it really is not an attempt to run into the opposition in some way and use the majority in the coalition, it is really a technical matter. The problem is that the previous government - and very rightly so - amended the law, as it said, through Madam President, Madam Member. De facto, the law changes the method of payment in orthodontics. But because these patients are being treated for about a year and something, the government has agreed with the patient organizations that there will be a two-year transitional period during which the treatment that started under the old law will be completed under the rules of the old law. If I put it simply, let's say my patient has braces, according to the old legislation, the braces - I'm not saying it's the specific situation, but in order to be understandable - it's been fully paid, it's like 200 crowns, the law has changed, this type of braces isn't fully covered, but in order to complete the treatment, it's necessary to have the braces for two years. And, of course, the Ministry of Health, the previous management - and quite rightly so - assumed that it would all go as it should. Unfortunately, the law was delayed for various objective reasons because of covid, because they were other priorities, so the validity of the law shifted by a year, but the transitional period did not change, so two years of the transitional period became one year of the transitional period, which I had no idea at all, but they turned to me a few days ago by the patient organization, that it had to be resolved somehow, because it was cured relatively many patients and it is, of course, incorrect when they started treatment according to some rules, they promised that the rules would apply in a transitional period for two years... But it's not anybody's fault, it's not a criticism for God's sake. So I promised to read this amendment. The agreement was that the dentist's chamber would read it, put it as an amendment on the way of a Member, and perhaps there is a colleague who is close to the dentist's chamber. I don't want to dissect it. If I really didn't care about those patients, I'd get off at this point completely different. But the really thing here is that there are cured patients, who are ruined by the guilt, that the transition period, which should have lasted two years, would only take a year now. So the changeling extends the transition period for the promised two years, reflects here a year later, nothing else behind it, I really guarantee it. And it's arranged with insurance companies, no one has a problem with it, patient organizations are very interested. That is all, and I apologise for having surprised you with this amendment - and I apologize, by your means, both to the Member and to you, my fellow Members - so to speak, I am surprised. And then maybe I'll be sharper in the machine guns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, Minister. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I'll ask Mr David Kasal to come. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u152	Thank you for the floor. Just a really small comment. Basically, we've been fighting for all the patients since this morning, and now we're fighting for the orthodontic ones. I get it, I don't have a problem with it at all, but it's just a comparison.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u153	Thank you for keeping time. We are in a general debate. I will ask Mrs Marie Pošarová to come. Before he comes to the speaker's desk, I'd like to read two apologies. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today between 17.00 and midnight until the end of the day for working reasons and Ms Renáta Zajíčková today between 15.40 and 16.40 for working reasons. So that was an apology, and, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u154	Thank you for the floor. For two years, serious colleagues, health care has kept the economy afloat at the cost of massive medical deployment. It could save tens of thousands of lives. The Fialův Government has decided to address its pre-election promise - a reduction in the state budget deficit - at the expense of the Health Department, where it has decided to save the most. The government's pre-election promise to regularly valorize civil servants' payments has not yet been fulfilled. According to Minister Jurečka, this was first taken into account in 2024, as he said for diary.cz. Just a promise, as they say, you won't hurt. There are over 5.9 million state insured persons. The payments for them from the budget account for about 30 per cent of all public health insurance revenues, while state insured people consume about 70 per cent of health insurance expenditure. About 70 percent of the health insurance companies' income is insurance premiums collected from employers, entrepreneurs and businessmen. In response to the high costs of the covid-19 pandemic, an amendment to Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended, Act No. 231/2020 Coll. This amendment amended the provisions of § 3c para. 1 of Law No. 592/1992 Coll. and increased the basis of assessment for persons for whom the State is the payer, as follows: From 1 June 2020 to CZK 11 607, from 1 January 2021 to CZK 13 088. Paragraph 2 is This amount of the assessment base referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1 the Government may always amend its regulation by 30 June with effect from 1 January of the following year. It takes into account the development of the average wage published by the Czech Statistical Office, the possibilities of the state budget and the development of the financial balance of public health insurance. The previous Government further applied § 3c para. 2 and the assessment basis was established by the Government Decree on the establishment of the assessment base for the person for whom the State is the payer of public health insurance premiums, to the amount of CZK 14 570. Payment per person and calendar month at a percentage rate of 13,5% of the measuring base is thus still CZK 1 967 this year. [[15.50 hours]] Growth of state contributions for state insured persons per person per month: for previous governments from 1. 1. 2019 to 31. 12. 2019 was CZK 1,018. A year later from 1. 1. 2020 to 31. 5. 2020 1 067 kroner. From 1. 6. 2020 to 31. 12. 2020 1 567 CZK, 500 crowns have been added. From 1. 1. 2021 to 31. 12. 2021 CZK 1 767, added again by two hundred more. From 1. 1. 2022 so far 1 967 kroner. Added another two hundred in the last government. From 1. 7. 2022 400 crowns will be collected, which means we are getting to the value for 2020, to the amount of CZK 1,567. Currently, there is an urgent need to increase the funds for planned health care postponed to flood hospitals with covid patients for the past two years, and we do not know how the next wave of covid-19 will eventually turn out in autumn. The costs will also significantly increase the current increase of state insured people, which has become roughly 380 000 war refugees from Ukraine. In this situation, our movement considers the reduction of payments to be state insured by about 25 percent not only as unprecedented in the history of the Czech Republic, but mainly as irresponsible to patients and, moreover, very insensitive to health professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u155	Thank you, too. This was the last application for a general debate. At this point, I'm going to ask if anyone else is still applying from the scene. I look around the hall, I see no one, so I end the general debate. I'll ask the Minister if there's any interest in the final word? It's not. Will I ask the rapporteur if there is an interest in the final word? It's not. No proposal has been made in the general debate, so I would like to start a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Tom Philipp, who is also the rapporteur, is currently on the table for a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u156	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to sign up for two amendments. Amendment 988 to Members Philipp, Svoboda, Lisová, Kuchař and Richterová, it is an amendment that I have presented quite widely in the debate this morning, so I hope that this will be enough. And then it's the second amendment under number 971, which I'm applying to. It is Olga Richterová's amendment, Philipp, Lisová, Bauer, Šebelová and Adámková. In the morning, Olga Richterová justified this proposal. I suppose everyone remembers, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u157	Thank you, too. The next party to the detailed debate is Mrs Martina Lisová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, my colleagues, I would like to sign up for an amendment concerning the treatment of orthodontic patients and which I have tabled with Minister Válek in the general debate. It's uploaded to the system under number 996. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-001-001.u159	Thank you. Now I don't see anyone in a detailed debate. I'm going to ask if anyone else is reporting from the scene to a detailed debate? I look around the O.R., I don't see anyone, so I end up having a detailed debate. I'll ask the Minister of Finance if he's interested in the final word? He doesn't. The rapporteur? It doesn't either. So at this point, no proposals have been made, so I'm ending second reading of this bill. And according to the emergency meeting program, I'm opening item number
