ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended, as amended, and other related laws /German press 207/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, I have here stated that the proposal will be made by Minister Martin Kupka, but he is duly apologized and represented by Minister Baxa. I therefore ask you, Minister, to take the floor and present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u2	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. I am happy to present to you, on behalf of my colleague Martin Kupka, a government bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business entrepreneurship, as amended, as amended, and other related laws. [[12.00 hours]] The aim of the bill is to adapt the legal order of the Czech Republic to six European Union regulations governing common rules in the field of civil aviation, the issue of requirements for unmanned systems and the conditions for their operation and remote management and aspects of civil aviation security. Following Union law, products representing selected unmanned systems, accessories sets and additional regulations for remote identification of unmanned aircraft are incorporated into the regulatory framework of Act No. 90/2016 Coll., on conformity assessment of specified products, as amended. In this context, the designation of the national authority is meant in relation to these products, which will be the Czech Trade Inspection Authority under this Act and the language in which certain documents are provided. The notifying authority in the field of conformity assessment of the products referred to above will comply with the existing concept foreseen by that law, the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing. Following a new, relatively comprehensive, structured and detailed regulation of the operation and management of unmanned systems contained in EU law, the necessary adaptation measures are being taken. In this context, the bill provides for a register of unmanned operators and a register of remote pilots, limitations and withdrawal of authorisations of unmanned operators, insurance of unmanned operators, selected aspects related to the competence to control and certification of unmanned systems, including the possibility for the Civil Aviation Authority to entrust third parties with the performance of state administration in matters of teaching, testing or training of remote pilots, special authorisation of the Civil Aviation Authority or the Police of the Czech Republic related to the supervision or control of the operation and management of unmanned systems within associations and conditions of use of the airspace of the Czech Republic for flying unmanned aircraft. In order to implement the Regulation governing the partial aspects of civil aviation security, the draft law provides for a change in the legislation on the verification of reliability. A new verification of reliability will be required not only from persons who enter the dedicated security area without an escort, but also from persons who perform defined activities outside the dedicated security area. There is also a change in the period of validity of the reliability document, when this document will be valid for a period of one year. Following the possibilities granted by Union law, selected aircraft and aerodromes are removed from its scope. This shall not apply to requirements imposed by the Union right to design, maintain and operate selected airports and related equipment and to activities related to the design of the production, maintenance and operation of selected aircraft categories. Furthermore, the draft act identifies the Civil Aviation Authority as the competent authority under the Union regulation governing the part of the airspace with controlled operation of unmanned systems. The draft law was already submitted in February 2021 to the Chamber of Deputies, which did not discuss it until the end of its term of office, and the legislative process was thus not completed. Therefore, the draft law is now being re-submitted and responds to partial changes at the level of Union law or interpretation by Union institutions compared to the form originally submitted. It precises the construction of individual items of administrative fees, reduces the administrative fee for the acceptance of the application for permission of the association to carry out recreational, sporting or competitive flights or public air performances and carries out the necessary legislative technical adaptations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the proposed bill amending the Civil Aviation Act and other related laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u3	Thank you, Minister. Otherwise, I wish you a lovely noon, we took turns managing the meeting. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Karel Sládeček, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. milý dáma, gentlemen, the government has submitted a bill to the House 27. 4. 2022. The bill was sent to Members as press 207 on 27. 4. 2022, the organizational committee recommended the discussion of the bill 28. 4. By resolution 2022 53, the rapporteur appointed and proposed the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The discussion of the press was on the agenda of the 25th meeting. The Minister has quite detailed the proposal, so I would just like to stress that the bill responds in particular to a new, rather extensive, structured and detailed regulation of Union requirements for unmanned systems, their design, production, supply and free movement in the European Union, as well as rules on their operation and management. Following these directly applicable regulations of the European Union, there is also a significant addition to the existing regime for the use of airspace for flying, namely the establishment of the possibility to define parts of the airspace of the Czech Republic by means of measures of a general nature issued by the Civil Aviation Authority and to regulate the flying of unmanned aircraft in them. Another major change is the change in civil aviation security legislation, namely the Institute for Reliability Verification. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment presented can essentially prevent the operation of aircraft models, the development of youth and the leisure activities of aircraft modellers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take your place behind the rapporteur's table and follow the debate. I am therefore opening up a general debate in which Mr Adamec first came forward, and I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I'm a little sorry that the Minister of Transport can't be here, but I understand he has other responsibilities today. And I'd probably start with what the rapporteur ended up with. It seems to me that no one has read this translation novel properly, because, as it is written - the drones - it is de facto destroying our modeling community. And you all know -- or who you're interested in, so you'll know for sure -- that we were one of the world's top modelers, and there are a number of problems at the moment. Young people don't want to model, it's expensive, it's laborious, they prefer to trade this activity for a computer system, they fly there better and free, and the old people say today that with the limitations that come with every amendment to this law, they're just gonna drop it too and they're gonna fly black because they're not gonna get paid. I have to say, only an unsub might have thought that an aerial model was an unmanned vehicle. It looks like it could be at first sight, but it's not. Anyone who comes into contact with aero modeling knows that if the model is from some size, they need an airport, a runway, a runway, a large area, because there's no way to fly it between the panels, you can't fly it over the square. And I don't know if that's what the translators thought. I understand that we're fighting drones today, drones are a whole different problem, and we started it at the last novel. We put in place an obligation for flight modelers to register, to pass the exams. Now, take it that the system is set up so that you have to be 18 years old. So what are we gonna do about those young people who aren't 18 years old? And the seniors, when they saw the system login to those tests, they just wouldn't log in. That's where you need an electronic identity. I've already pointed that out to the ministers in the last parliamentary term, and it's gone unanswered, because we're going forward and electronic identity will be normal. Explain it to someone in your old age - hard! So this is where the first restriction came in. It's true that we've been given two years' exception as clubs, that's true, we just signed up for UCL and we got an exception. [[12.10 hours]] Now, in my opinion, if we don't fix this - and the experiments here are ready, we have an amendment prepared, we communicate with the modeling community, we just need to change it, it needs to be changed - otherwise we simply lose this beautiful hobby in the Czech Republic, let's face it. And I am very sorry that it is presented in this form, when it is actually a clear liquidation of modeling. There is no other way at this time. If we approve in the submitted form, air modellers in the Czech Republic simply end. I remember we've been having trouble with the law for years. The first problem came years ago, when - more papal than the Pope - we approved that without a pilot's license you can fly the model only up to 20 kilos, there are 25 kilos throughout Europe. You can imagine the problems this caused in various competitions, especially in foreign affairs. We were able to remove that. Then came the registration and the tests. Those tests, by the way, have absolutely nothing to do with aero modeling, they're drone tests and aerial models, they're just not drones. That's what needs to be said here, not drones, not flying drones. It's just something completely different. So I wanted to say that we will have to pay more attention to the transposition of European law, because this is a classic case of how a completely liquidation process can be approved under the transposition here. So I want to point out that we're either gonna redo this, which I don't like that being prepared like this, or we're gonna have to reject it if we don't want to destroy the beautiful hobby of a whole group of our citizens. So I'm asking you to really pay attention to this. I'm asking the D.O.D. to look into it, to work with us, because it's not easy to adjust, and it certainly can't stay that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u7	Thank you. Now Minister Baxa has declared himself with priority rights, Mr. Stržínek will prepare himself and then I have Mr. Kubíček from the post of Minister Kubíček. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u8	Thank you for the floor. Coincidentally, although, of course, it is not directly in my opinion, I was also approached on this matter. I have a letter from Mr Tomáš Ciniburk, Chairman of the Air Modellers Club of the Union of Modellers of the Czech Republic, and Mr Jan Žemlička, who are active in this association. It was addressed to me by Mr Ivo Kornatovský, deputy mayor of the town of Plasa, who is engaged in the Bureau of the Air Modellers Club of the Czech Republic, and the warning also sounds with the same urgency as the chairman of the Economic Committee. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the representatives of the Association of Modellers are intensively negotiating with the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport prepares for printing 207 a partial amendment which takes into account the initiatives of the Union of Modellers to an extent that allows European Union law and, where appropriate, the protection of public interest, which is the safety of flying. So I would like to assure, as the representative of this bill's proposal, that the Ministry of Transport is aware of these comments and is going to respond to them through the amendment, and I assume that the representatives of the Ministry of Transport will also be in contact with the economic committee on behalf of which President Adamec has spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u9	Thank you. We are in a general debate. Mr Stržínek will now appear in order, Mr Kubíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, I would like to follow up on Mr Adamec, my previous speaker, and allow me to proudly join a group of modelers. You know, modellers, like maybe fishermen, are some kind of special species, and the amendment to the law, as it is being presented to us at the moment, acts as if you would allow fishermen to buy fishing rods, prepare baits, come to the pond, but forbid them to catch. The modelers are exactly the same with regard to what is being presented to us at the moment because the basic text fell out in that text and that the model with a weight of up to 25 kilograms is not considered to be an aircraft. That's a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Nobody can ban them from building models, but if they can't fly to any sports or civilian airports, their work will just go to waste. You know, in many forums, I stand up for modelers, and personally, with a slight exaggeration, I say that modeling should be a mandatory ring for men. It is something that will teach you many crafts: stick, sharpen, cut, solder, teach you patience, care. It's a circle that gives a guy a lot of experience that he can then, I firmly believe, make good use of. Please support the modeller. It's a beautiful hobby, a beautiful sport, and it doesn't deserve us to throw sticks at them, but on the contrary, we should best meet them. I know the novel's coming up. I would be happy to work with you on it and interpret the sadness of many of the modellers I often meet. I personally recommend that representatives of both the Czech Air Modeling Club and the Association of Modellers of the Czech Republic be invited to the Guarantee Committee, which is an Economic Committee, but I would certainly also not prevent them from having the opportunity to speak to this amendment by representatives of the Aeroclub of the Czech Republic as well as the Air Amateur Association of the Czech Republic. We all understand that here we bring European legislation into line with our Czech legislation, but please let us think about these transpositions and let us not complicate the lives of many people unnecessarily. In addition to the definition where a model weighing less than 25 kilograms is not considered to be an aircraft, a debate should certainly be conducted on the requirement of the pilot's minimum age of remotely controlled aircraft. It's set for 16 years at the moment, but there's a chance to cut this age by another four years, which I'd put too much credit for, because 12-year-olds really can do magic with an erection, and I don't see a single reason why we should stop them from doing this, because only when they come to the airport with their model that they've been putting together for weeks, they start the engine and let it go into the air, they experience the experience of a fisherman pulling fish out of a pond. I'm sure there should be a debate about the cameras. Here you really need to separate drones and their sensing systems from aerial models, where often modelers also use cameras, for many reasons. Especially for acrobatic flying, it is important for them feedback about a well and successfully executed acrobatic element, but of course they also use it for monitoring purposes, let's say airport and other spaces. So, please, let us debate this issue as well. There should certainly also be discussion of the regulation of the next registration marking, namely the club on aircraft, in addition to the compulsory by UCL. I wouldn't want aerial models to become posters where there's one number next to the other, one mark next to the other. Let us try to simplify the life of modelers, not complicate them with further mandatory markings. And last but not least, it would certainly be worth it to have a debate on an administrative fee of CZK 10,000 on the guarantee committee for existing associations, because modelers really have no money to spare. They put all the free resources they have into balsa, modelspana, mikelants and other materials from which they manufacture and construct their aircraft. [[12.20 hours]] I would also like to discuss at the level of the guarantee committee the person responsible for the performance of the state administration in matters of sport flying equipment, because we also have two institutions that are clearly defined here, and it should be debated as to how it is set up in this amendment. So please be supportive of the modelers, because modeling makes guys into guys, and once they build houses, highways, bridges, or skyscrapers, they're gonna need these skills very well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u11	Thank you for your performance. I think some people are gonna buy a model after tonight's show, and they're gonna be folding their first plane this weekend. But now I will ask my colleague Kubíček to speak in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we have also been addressed by the chairman of the Air Modeller Clubs, and because we did not wait for the Ministry of Transport, which did not communicate until a certain time - that was it - so we have prepared the amendment across the spectrum and are involved in this by Members of all clubs, such as Jana Pastuchová, Mr Stržínek, Mr Adamec, Mr Brázdil, Mr Vích, Mr Lochman, Mr Teleky, Mr Kučera and Mrs Olga Richterová. And, of course, others can sign up. The problem was that it was a pure interpretation of EU law, and modellers were completely forgotten. We don't have a problem with what the Department of Transport put there about the regulation of drones and charges and so on, we don't dispute that at all. On the other hand, I was a little surprised - and I will confirm that here, through Mr President, the words of Mr Adamec, who said that no one really read it - because this is such a crucial thing that if it had gone unnoticed by the Chamber of Deputies, we would actually have completely killed this activity, even sport. So, even though the Ministry of Transport, by the mouth of the Minister of Culture, will be working on the amendment, I will give it to the Economic Committee as well and we will have some discussion about it. So I am still here, through Mr President, to my previous speaker, where I will not agree with him completely on all matters. It has its pros and cons. For example, using cameras on models is not an easy matter, because it belongs to the GDPR system, and it will create such a big problem for modelers that the sport will stop working too. I'd be careful about that, 'cause there's another way to do it - and the exception that comes with the acrobatic models. You can do it in a different way, it doesn't have to be that way in the law. The next thing you know, there really are about 15,000 members of the Modellers' Union. For them it is a matter of very existential at the moment and, of course, we welcome the participation of the two gentlemen, because I am the information that my previous speaker, Mr. Stržínek, has sent them, they have spoken in a different way. That means we have to have a debate. And now there is simply a question - which should not happen - that I am convinced that the Ministry of Transport should have prepared this amendment well and correctly. That means this thing was supposed to be in there by now, it was supposed to work, because information tells me that the Air Modeling Union's been communicating with them for six months, okay? That's a bit of a problem, I'm not saying the Minister, I'm saying some official who just implemented it purely. And the other thing to do is really age limit, and I recommend that, too, and we're going to talk about it, and we're going to cut it down, because really, those modellers are recruiting from kids, I'm going to say school age. I also started with this once, if anyone else remembers Revell, who made the first models of plastic that we glued, the first World War II fighters and so on. I was proud back then, I had an SR-71 big one, and then I went from this to flying modeller, where it started on some aircraft that had a small motorcycle. It was a kit they bought back then, and, of course, up until now, when the system is so sophisticated that they are able to build a model jet jet aircraft. If you've seen anyone, they're even able to do group acrobatics with it. It's very refreshing on flight days, and it has great popularity among young people, but also among adults. I admit that I like to watch it, too, because it's really cool, and what they can do with those little acrobatic planes won't even make it big. I can confirm that because I was flying those big planes. So I think that we have found support everywhere, and now all we have to do is build the amendment correctly. In some way, we'll put him there, he'll be discussing the Economic Committee. The Chairman of the Economic Committee has promised support, for which I thank him, so I think it will be nothing conflicting. At the same time, if the Ministry of Transport were to prepare an amendment, it would be good if it had been submitted to us in advance to compare it and eliminate any disagreements. Again, it would probably be easier for me if we were just correcting the proposal of the Ministry of Transport, it was prepared there, and we could have had a debate just about the age limit, so I'm a little sorry, but I'm not gonna blame the Minister of Culture here because the Minister of Transport spoke his mouth. So that's it for me. With regard to the overall bill, as well as from the position of the ANO club, we support the regulation of drones, we support all the things that are where the administrative fees are set, there are certain requirements for drone pilots, there are certain rules, there are certain sanctions, which is very important, because, of course, the drones can be used in different ways, including how they can be abused, and we know what cybersecurity is and what is the image of different objects. Today it's probably no big deal to buy a drone with a camera in order for the sum of several thousand crowns and the camera is able to take at least photos like it does a mobile phone - quality. So it will clearly be there, if we complete the amendment, I think there will be no problem with the law. And thank you very much to the Chairman of the Air Modellers Union, who has been fierce, fierce, and has bypassed us all. I assume you've all received the e-mail. Of course, not everyone understands this, but those who understand it immediately applied for it, and I am very happy for it. And if there were more than one such agreement, it would be commendable. Thank you for the floor, and we'll let go of the next one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u13	Thank you. The Minister of Culture is claiming priority rights. I think at the second reading, but at the third reading, I'm sure individual speakers will already have their model here to support their performances. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u14	Thank you. I would not normally add anything to this, of course, but when Mr Kubíček here said those Revell models, I will add that I glued Czech models of the production cooperative Directions and those were the classic ones that had to be bought in colours while Revell was a higher league. Ladies and gentlemen, I just consider it my duty, given that colleagues from the Ministry of Transport are sending me some information so that this voice can also be heard here in the debate, so I am just interpreting the report that European Union law models understand as unmanned systems. The understanding of models therefore results from EU law and this is what needs to be prepared for. And then there's one more thing. If the Modellers' Club, within the scope of the application for permission of the Association, counts on the lower age of remote pilots and ensures the safety of such operation within its scope, it may be permitted and justified to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u15	Thank you, Minister. Another one for the general debate is Mr Brázdil and Mr Lochman will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u16	Thank you for your word, I won't be long. I'm not a modeler, although I worked 30 years on a flight rescue helicopter, I fell three times with it. But I have a son at home who's a pro. - Yes, I fell three times. - I have a son at home who's a professional in the sense of drone flying, and maybe he has two of the largest drones in the Republic, so here's the rigor and the verification skills and so on he has to be. I would just like to say, in the spirit of my previous speakers, that I am also in favour of making modelers and modeling more accessible and that the models, which are up to 25 kilos, are simply removed from it somehow. So I guess somebody's gonna propose something, amendment or return, we'll see, but I just wanted to join it - I'm not a modeler, but I'm close to flying and I say hi to all the modelers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u17	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Stržínek is reporting, so I will ask him. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u18	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I see this as a commitment from the Minister, although interpreted through reports from others, that both the Ministry and the Economic Committee will actually deal with this. Of course, individual comments always have their pros and cons, camera yes, camera no, under what conditions. This is really about professional discussion. One thing is GDPR, the other thing is, let's say, the need for pilots to film some acrobatic elements with the eyes of the plane so that they can evaluate the assemblies. But here, I think we're not going to fight in the blood, it's going to be argument and some other follow-up laws that are connected to it. I allow myself to use the time I have to do one more thing: perhaps someone who will pass by Valašský Meziříčí on July 16 will come to us on the flight day that we will be hosting at the sports airport. The main star will be Martin Šonka, our extra pilot of the Red Bull Air Race series, which you will also see there, so on July 16th flight day in Valmez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u19	Thank you. I hope the avalanche doesn't tear down the invitations for weekend events. I will ask Mr Lochman, who will probably invite us to Munich Hradiště.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u20	Mr President, fellow Members, well, we also have an event on Saturday in Munich Hradiště, but I will not invite you because I have not come to invite you to events or to greet anyone. Please, I'm not a member of any modeling club, but I just want to support the debate. We should definitely deal with this in the Economic Committee. I think it is a transposition of the European standard, where it is obvious that we need to look at the detail. We at STAN definitely understand that the dynamically evolving part of transport in terms of drones needs to have clear rules, and at the same time it cannot take away the traditional leisure education that we have here, which is modeling. It is also the promotion of technical education. By the way, I am in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, there I see my colleague Králíček, who is also reporting, and there we see that even within drones and military activities, the technical one, when we talk about drones, so this technical education and this modeling - by the way, even in Ukraine, it turns out that most of the training, such a small one, is getting out of these places. Anyway, I wanted to say that for us, for STAN, we understand that the transposition is necessary, we understand that it is necessary to set it up, implement it in some way, but I agree with my colleagues here and I also spoke with my colleague Kubíček, we support the amendment that would lead to this traditional technical education being not limited in any way, this free time. I think it is up to the Ministry of Transport to find common ground on this matter, whether it is an amendment here across the political spectrum, or it will be an amendment or an amendment from the Ministry of Transport. We are ready for this in the Economic Committee, in the Sub-Committee on Transport, and I believe that in the meantime we will all visit various interesting places where there will be different flights with models, but at the same time that we will solve what we need, and thus this law. It's just for us, for STAN, and I hope we can move on. I believe that we will soon resolve this in the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u21	Thank you very much. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not a modeler, I wouldn't be patient, but I have great respect for all the modelers. I've always admired the works, of course I know a few. I do not want to invite anyone anywhere, but I have listened very carefully to the debate, particularly the honourable President of the Economic Committee, Mr Adamec. I am therefore not sure that this can be fully healed with the amendment. I think, and that is why I have decided to propose that the proposal be returned - my proposal is to reject it at first reading, because I think it would be a good idea for the creators to think about it, to invite various modeling associations and to listen to experts who understand it, I certainly am not. If I am not satisfied with this procedural proposal by the House of Deputies, I think - and again I give the truth to the chairman of the Economic Committee to Mr Adamc - that he should sit here, and that is nothing against you, Minister, the Minister of Transport should sit here, because it is his, as the people say, business. So my second procedural proposal is for this meeting to be suspended until the Minister of Transport is present. Let the House decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u23	Thank you. So I see two proposals on your part, but I see the other as procedural, the interruption to the time of the Minister of Transport. In my view, we should vote on this immediately without debate. With regard to rejection at first reading, we will deal with this at the end of the general debate. If you agree to this procedure, I'll have the other colleagues present. Yes, I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. I shall repeat what the President has proposed. Firstly, on its part, we have a procedural proposal to suspend negotiations until the time of the presence of Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, and then after the end of the debate, we would vote on her motion to reject it at first reading. So far, we are in an open general debate and we will vote on a procedural proposal to interrupt the negotiations of this press until the presence of Minister Kupka. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 54, 145 Members voted in favour, 61, against 80. This proposal has not been adopted. We are now returning to the general debate. This is the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u24	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to return to the timeline, as this bill, this amendment, has been prepared. It's been here since the beginning, she's from last term. It has been here for a long time in the House, it has not been included, and it is a transposition of the European directive with the problem that, of course, is there. I don't want to tell anybody here that it's my fault, I wouldn't dare, and it's not in my style, but it's true that the last government has been preparing this novel and that it's a relatively long time before the proposal arrived at the first reading - I would really try to adjust it in agreement with the Ministry of Transport. There's one more problem I'd like to solve, but I don't want to burden you with that. I think that we are able to solve this and, if it doesn't work out, we can use other tools to simply not see the light of day in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u25	Thank you, I understand, Mr. Chairman of the Economic Committee, that you are not making any motion to reject or withdraw. Thank you very much. Minister Baxa has yet to enter into a general debate with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u26	Thank you. I just want to present, in solidarity with Minister Kupka, not only the opinion that my colleagues from the Ministry of Transport have just written to me, but also concerning my regulations. This is an implementation that should have been discussed quite a long time ago. Of course, I respect President Schillerová's right to present such a proposal, but it is indeed one of the numerous laws to be discussed during the previous parliamentary term. For this reason, it is certainly important that the drafting of the bill be continued. As President Adamec has already said, in all seriousness and respect for the issue of aviation modeling that has been raised here, it should be stressed that, within the whole amendment, this is, say, some specific component that can be resolved through the amendment. Gros of this law, it seems, is not the subject of any criticism here, so it would certainly be a good idea for the law to go through today's first reading and further on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u27	Thank you very much. So far, you have been the last person to sign up for the general debate. So let me ask you one more time, is there anyone else who wants to say something about models in the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Will I ask the final words of both the plaintiff and the rapporteur? There's no interest in final words. I will therefore just repeat that in the general debate, there was a proposal by President Schillerová to reject it at first reading, so that we will vote first on this proposal, then we would proceed to the vote on the guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal put forward by President Schillerová to reject the draft at first reading? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 145 Members were voted in the 55 vote, 61 voted in favour, against 74. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, or I will put it to a vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the Committee on Economic Affairs being a guarantee committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 56 vote, 149 Members were voted in favour, 145 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. And I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. At the same time, the Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. I'm registering Mr Králíček here, so please, if he wants to expand the committees, have him make a motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u28	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to discuss this also in the Committee on Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-008-018.u29	Yes, so here's a proposal for another committee to discuss the legal standard in question, the Security Committee. I'll put it to a vote. I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the 57 vote, 149 Members were voted in, 64 voted in favour, against 36. The motion was not accepted. I want to ask if there's another proposal to supplement the committees? It's not like that. Since there were no proposals in the general debate to shorten or extend the time limit for committee discussions, we have successfully dealt with the first reading of this press, and I am item 18, its discussion, at this point I am ending. We'll continue with item 19, which is
