ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws /house print 237/ - third reading I will therefore ask the rapporteur's table to take the position of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, as well as the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jiří Navrátil. I'll also ask the news desk. The amendments are in the Chambers of Press 237/2, which was delivered to you on 17 June 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 237/3. So now I ask the Minister whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? He does. So please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u2	Good morning, Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues and the public who are here. Hello, everyone. At the same time, I want to say that I am sorry that there was such an uncomfortable situation on Friday. But I just want to say that I have been duly excused from the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for finally accepting that the point is being discussed today. I was excused because of the meeting at the conference, which was part of the activities of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Council. Now, about the proposal we have here. I want to start by updating what I said here when we discussed this proposal about a month ago at first reading. That we really sent this proposal into the legislative process as -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u3	I'm really gonna ask for some peace in the room. I know it's morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u4	Thank you. - as a proposal which we want to address in one specific area, and this is a question of support for foster parents, particularly unmediated foster parents. There was a situation where last year's amendment to the law, when a new system of foster support was being adapted and areas of one part of the foster home, so-called mediated, and unmediated, were created, when the so-called unmediated fell out of the pension insurance scheme. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] In the past, the Czech Republic has taken a number of measures to extend the support of foster families, to make this activity, to a certain extent attractive, to remove barriers to people, when they need to decide whether not just for different reasons, but whether they are able to take care of these children, for example, so that we can allow them to do so. So we in the Czech Republic really gradually expanded the system from the point of view of the support. In 2013, it happened that foster parents, and I think, quite rightly, were included in the pension scheme. That's changed. From 1 January really part -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u5	Yes. It is really necessary to transfer the discussions to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u6	I'm really going to ask you, who doesn't care about this topic, the issue of foster care, so that you decide, for example, to focus on these debates outside, but it's not comfortable here to load this point when there's really such a noise in the hall. There's been a change. From January 1st, the part of the foster parents who were unmediated in that category just fell out of the pension scheme. I think it's contrary to some, first of all, the principle of foster support. We know that we want to reduce the number of children in institutional care, we want to support foster care, and it goes against the spirit when we want to support these people. At the same time, it is contrary to some legitimate expectation of those people. Because these people saw that this form of support is here. and let's say, sometime in the middle of last year, this approach changed here. So we have an ambition to solve this one part with this amendment. I understand that there has been a very intense debate here about adjusting the conditions for people who work in the rescue service in the Czech Republic. The last House decided at the end of its term that it wanted to appreciate these people who work in the rapid rescue service, as people who really are to some extent also people who actively contribute to the functioning of the integrated rescue system, where for other components of the integrated rescue system, this country has a different form of support, but it does not remember this group of people. The last House decided on this, but the proposal is actually legally technically written so - the Czech Social Security Administration could not actually apply it in practice as of 1 January. [[9.20 hours]] We talked about it, I talked about it with my colleagues. Of course, I see how opposition representatives feel, I also see the views of people who are part of the medical rescue service today, and I have spoken to many other professions that have come in the past weeks. And they said, we would also like to be included in some form of appreciation, such as the possibility of early retirement, whether it was the people behind the Mining Rescue Service, for firefighters, such as business firefighters, firefighters of the Czech Railways, firefighters at the airport and so on. And the penny of those people who say simply, we want to have some form of appreciation and the possibility of early retirement is really expanding, the set. And we have in the government's programming statement that we say yes, we want to remember challenging professions. We want to allow demanding professions to retire early, but we also say that it should also be with some clear parameters. First of all, as we evaluate the time when they pursued the demanding profession, so that it really is as objective as possible, as the time gradually translates into the claim of the earlier departure. And then we also said one thing, and I think it's very important, and it's also to tie it up with the involvement of the employer, who will also have the responsibility for the employee in the form of a higher pension scheme. Because if we say this state is supposed to allow these people to leave earlier, it will have higher demands on the pension system, on its financing, so it is also fair to say, let's set the system balanced, let's let employers participate in it with the higher contribution to the system for these employees. Because the connection will also be very important because the objective should also be for the employer to be aware that he has these people here, and he should try to create such conditions in the workplace so that these people are not here for a great time of twenty, twenty, twenty, twenty, twenty, thirty years, as unfortunately happens today, exposed and exposed to one particular demanding profession. So that the employer can work with people in personnel policy so that, for example, these people can gradually get into other workplaces within the company. So here's really the rope, remember, too, that this employer is supposed to be part of it, that it's supposed to be part of some higher premium, and I think it's very important. I mean, we agreed within the government coalition as well, the meeting was yesterday, at the coalition meeting K Five, that at this point, we are really going to proceed really only to the adjustment that concerns foster parents. And we have a government proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which, I reckon, this House will discuss during September or October, where the adjustment of people who work in the Czech Republic's rescue service will be adjusted here so that we can tell the paramedics here who work in the medical rescue service, say, the possibility of early retirement will be here, we will treat this area. Of course, the other challenging professions will be dealt with as part of a major change in the pension system. But just what the House said last year, we're keeping this, or we're keeping this promise until 2023 on January 1st, and we're going to have the paramedics there. We'll allow them into specified parameters to retire early. I think there's a clear message. I understand that some opposition representatives will not be satisfied with this. But if we say that this amendment, and I said it from the start, is intended to really pursue purely the issue of foster parents and their inclusion in the pension insurance system, and we are preparing a novel that runs here through proper inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and addresses the issue of demanding professions, as it is not possible to say now, we will now insert it here ad hoc without taking into account, for example, that there should be some clear balance in the fact that when we say earlier departure, it is a benefit, it is entitled to finance from the system, it will mean funding. But, for example, the proposals that are here don't include the employer's participation. These are all things that need to be included in this to make these steps balanced, because we need to be aware that other professions, which we will discuss subsequently, later, are also challenging professions. There are very similar arguments why they should be included there, and it is necessary to have really the same approach. So thank you for your attention and thank you for your understanding of this process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u7	Thank you for this introduction. And now I am opening the debate. The rapporteur is not in the third reading, I just answer the question from the diaper to make it clear. And about the debate. Excuse me? [[Call off the microphone.]] Before the third reading, just for information, before the third reading, the rapporteur may not be at the outset. And as for the debate, there's a request for an apology that I need to load. And although she apologizes to Mrs Helena Válková in the days, today because of illness, but until 15. 7. That's one apology. And then today, between 12.30 and the end of the day, Mr Josef Bělica apologizes for reasons of work. To Mrs Válková, she apologized for yesterday for 12. 7. And, of course, if the rapporteur has a request for a speech, then of course, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to the press meeting 237. The bill was sent to Members as press 237/0 on 3 June 2022. The proposal proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House would give its consent in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the House. The proposal was discussed at first reading in the general debate on 15 June 2022 at the 26th meeting. The House disagreed with the bill's proposal for approval at first reading. The bill was ordered for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy and the time limit for discussion was reduced to one day. The Social Policy Committee discussed the bill and approved it on 15 June 2022 by a resolution delivered to Members as press 237/1. In the second reading, the bill was discussed on 17 June 2022 at the 25th meeting of the House. The deadline for starting the third reading was reduced to seven days. The amendments tabled, which were four in total, by Mrs Brázdil, Mrs Mašek, Mr Navrátil and Mrs Šafránková, were processed as press 237/2, which was sent on 17 June 2022 at 12.26 pm. The Committee on Social Policy issued a resolution by the Guarantee Committee, which was delivered to Members on 22 June 2022 as House Press 237/3, which contains procedures and opinions on individual proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u9	Thank you. Now, then, to the order in the general debate. Because it must be stated that it is clear to everyone what order it will be that we have here the applications on the blackboard that everyone sees, Mr Milan Brázdil, who is the first to be logged in, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mr Jiří Mašek. And then Mrs Lucie Šafránková, Mrs. Lucie Šafránková, signed up in writing with the club's opinion, which will be the fourth. And then there's Mrs Babišová in that order. So let's just make it clear what the order will be. And now I may ask the first envoy, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u10	Well, nice ladies, gentlemen, government, but you, too, are part of it. Hello. I'm not easy. I'm not easy because so the petitioner, the minister, doesn't know that there's no medical rescue here to say something that's not true at all... He says he wants it, it's a legislative need to be adjusted, but he himself says he raised his voice for it, and now he's saying no, no, no, I'm not gonna do it to you, we're not gonna do it to you again. [[9.30 hours]] Because I want to change it. I'll get to it. I'm gonna be emotional because this fact... This is where you turn paramedics into politics. By the way, these guys, they're representatives of religious people, the Frées, the Espedics, don't worry about it. Those are people who save people's lives! The integrated rescue system in our Republic has three main components: firefighters, police and paramedics, rescue services. The two biggest ones have the least exits. The smallest, it's called the health rescue service of individual regions, it's numerically the smallest, by the way, it's about 300 people per county, it has the least people, but it has the most exits. But she has no social security. These people said, or we said, you guys who were here last term, and you voted for it, by the way, all of you, I think they raised their hand for it. You said, "Yes, we've noticed." These are actually people who aren't sure. And maybe in the spirit of what was going on, it was the covid, so we realized these are the people who... nobody knew anything about the covid, and we knew it was a mess, and we could die. And you guys evaluated it, and for that, I'm glad we're gonna make it through the bill, it doesn't matter who designed it, it doesn't matter if it was designed by one or the other. That was an apolitical issue. By the way, in the context of today - today, yes, 25 years ago, is when there was a tragedy in our republic, it was floods. Sixty people died during the flood. We were there, too. I'm in a tightrope, we flew in a helicopter. They were zachraňovat. [[He speaks very strongly, emotionally.]] However, we have agreed in the last parliamentary term, yes, we will do this to you that you will be able to retire earlier for 20 years if you... Excuse me. You'll be able to go five years into the pre-retirement or early retirement without sanctions if you're rescuers, you'll work and you'll do 20 years of rescue work. That's what we did. There's been a mistake. No one noticed, not even from the MPs here, then the senators, and the president signed it. People are excited that someday if there's trouble and I'm not prosecuting, I'm not gonna be able to handle it, I'm not gonna end up on the pavement. And we were happy. Please, and you knew - now beware. Who's this about? It's not a medical emergency service or anything like that, it's a law that allows rescue services, paramedics, paramedics, emergency services, so if he can't handle his job, he can do at least 20 years of rescue work and he can finish 60 years, that's a condition, and he has to be on that ambulance, so if he can't handle it, he can leave. Maybe a year, maybe just two years before the pension, maybe three, maybe five. That's what we made possible. [[Unintelligible.]] How is that possible? Why should we do this to them? Colleagues, let me tell you something. I'm 60. I was there full-time before I joined the House, and I'm still working. And I didn't want to say it, but I'm gonna say it. Both hips have iron. I spent 30, less than 30 years on board a helicopter. I've looked up 3,000 dead people. I saved thousands of people. I lost my kidney. Stress. I have kidney cancer, they took it from me. But this doesn't mean that I'm not continuing this job. I still go there. But there are those who can't. The driver has epilepsy. Otherwise, he's healthy, but he has epilepsy. But that dehonests him out of it - not dehonests him, he can't continue to work as a paramedic, a driver of a rescue vehicle. What's he supposed to do? He worked there for 20 years. He's 60, 61, 62. And Mr. Marian Jurečka says to him today, "We're gonna redo it." But we'll do it differently. I voted for it last time, but now I have a different opinion. I'll take it from you, says Mr. Marian Jurečka! He confuses us, he doesn't know who it's about, and he says he won't! How dare you? [[He's still very emotional.]] Colleagues and colleagues, those involved in this law, they're not assholes. These are men and women. The vast majority of these people - by the way, you know, last year, statistically speaking from the Ministry of Health, they were 72 people from all over the Republic; 72, three quarters of them are women. But beware, of these 72, we don't even know how many of them are satisfied that they've had 20 years of work done. So let's admit that it's going to be 50, 45, I don't know, people who are going to be able to - but power, not that they have to, most of them are going to stay there. Why would a paramedic leave a medical emergency service who takes the same salary as you, has the same base at that peak in 60 years, why would he retire in 20, or I don't know how much he'd get? But if he has to, he won't be able to - but I'm sure you'll be happy to be able to run up those stairs so he can be there in four to six minutes on a clinical death, because then you're already dead, then you're a preparation if you're not rescued in time. But if this guy can't handle it, or a paramedic who can't do it because, like I said, epilepsy, why not let him? He'll never leave sooner. These people, they're mountain rescuers, paramedics, they're hearts. You think they're gonna go down with the money just 'cause they want to leave 'cause they're tired of it? It's not like that. But when that happens, you're gonna let one of them do it, and by that you're gonna tell them that we really appreciated you, you guys are good. Fifty people. Of the hundred mountain rescuers, it's probably one in a year that he won't be able to handle. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Look, I fell three times with a helicopter. Three times in my 30 years, I fell with a helicopter, a pilot's broken spine, I had a stove cut, but somehow it's fixed, I'm moving on. I still like the job. But they like it, too. They just want to have some kind of thank you that - firefighters and cops have a retainer. That retainer is always a bigger benefit than those... This is CZK 3,000. The benefit we would give them, the 55 people who might have left, there are between 3,000 and 4,000 crowns. That it will be an early retirement without sanctions, or a pension that can leave at 60, but it will be without the penalty to withdraw the 3,000 crowns, maybe 4,000. Colleagues, aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed, Mr. Jurečka, that you even released this? You say we'll fix it. I mean, it's here, it's a legislative technical regulation. But I'll tell you what the problem is. Because we brought it up! We didn't want to bring it up, I'm not that stupid, I'm already in the third term. We wanted them to do it, and I won't show. And we worked on it, even the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs worked on it. You don't even know. But there are also fair people among your employees in that ministry. And they realized we had to fix it. They helped us, and we worked it out with your colleagues, you know that. And yet you say, we'll fix it. Next time, another time. Why would you fix it? It's already been repaired! Just -- you know what's enough? Just raise your hand. Or, Mr. Marian Jurečka, please, just give a neutral opinion. And each of you is aware of that... In front of your colleagues, in front of those who come to you one day anyway, if it's in the field and you don't die somewhere in the hospital, your conscience will be in whether you raise your hand or not. [[Still very loud, emotionally.]] Don't tell them not to raise their hand. I have very good information. Here are the people who said I wouldn't name them because I'm not the kind of person to dehoneze them, but these people want to vote for it. But when you say neutral, you're five-wheelers, you agreed on it, I understand that it is, the politics, they just have to keep their word - but they want to vote for it. If you say neutral, it'll pass. Tito will come home and they will be happy to see it as a benefit for those who are yet to come. I mean, young people aren't really interested, but this is gonna be one of the other things. They say, "Oh, if I end up in the '60s, I won't be able and I'll serve those 20 years, and I have to be in that ambulance, not that I'm serving 20 years in advance, then I'll be working somewhere as an I.T., then something, and then I'll say, "I'll be back in the ambulance for a year." That's not in the law. He has to work on an ambulance, he has to work for at least 20 years, and he has to complete 60 years. These are people at the top of their knowledge, but also physically devastated. I told you my story. [[9.40 hours]] What would I say in conclusion? I beg you once more, Mr Marian Jurečka, leave your people, the five-police, the free vote, I will be happy for it, we will all be happy for it, and they will be happy for it. In the end, they show their interest. This is not politics. I know you're gonna say now, but Brázdil's exhibating there. I don't want to exhibate here, you say "exhibition." Please, I didn't mean to, believe me, ask people we had a different arrangement. Do you know who did this to them? To make it one of you and get away with it? I'll tell you. It was Minister Rakušan who said - no way to speak to it, and it was Mr Marian Jurečka - that they should not report to it. So these are the people who said - don't report to it. They're scared, now they're sorry. I talked to them. On my honor! I talked to them, and that's what they told me -- we're sorry, we wouldn't do it again, we would have applied to it by now, because it's nonsense to make this a policy. Yesterday we talked about this, the less politics it's gonna be, the better it's gonna be for these people. I know -- you're saying I'm exhibating about it. Please, as soon as we say this, I'm not going anywhere, I'm not going to say anything, and I'm going to ask the Minister to go to a press conference with these people and say - that was us, our deputies who fixed it for you, because last time it was written wrong. And you can sail us and say -- that's wrong, they did it... Praise yourselves. They don't really care who put it up here anyway. They need to know that if they're in need, they'll be sick, they won't be able to handle, they won't be on the pavement. That's all. Nobody gets any points on this one. There are really people across the spectrum. And because, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, I am not supposed to act like this, this must not be done, but I am here because of legislative technical and that falls within the heading of Section 95 para. 2, it says what is allowed in that third reading, and I have therefore taken that word and I say that I am reading legislatively, Mr rapporteur, the legislative technical regulation that my Amendment 951 gives to be valid from 1. First year of 2023. I've been brought up to speed with legislation, that's the only mistake that's still missing to make it okay. There are no mistakes. Mr. Marek the Výborný last time he said there were mistakes. There are no mistakes, it was the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, it was unionists, it was your colleagues, we all did it. We tried not to be... to do it right. And now you just miss-- we all-- raise your hand. And tell me you did it. That it wasn't... that you were just... not that you were wrong. Sell it. Sell it, we don't care who sells it. They don't care who sells it, all the paramedics, the mountain service, we don't care. [[points to the gallery of guests]] After all, when I was talking to you here last time, do you know what happened? I didn't imagine that, so these are our representatives, they from our problems, they actually want to live on us? I hope not. I hope now that you're really gonna give them the freedom and they're gonna vote for it. I'm begging you one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u11	Thank you. This contribution raised three factual points. So... [[Applause continues.]] Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, then Minister Marian Jurečka and President Marek Výborný, is registered with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u12	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the Minister was not here yesterday. Because there was a debate on the standard legislative path here. The problem is that the five-wheelers sometimes want a standard legislative path and sometimes they don't want one. In the Civil Service Act, the Presidents of the five coalition parties submitted a bill in order to compete as quickly as possible with officials, and this is in a hurry, even if an amendment to the Civil Service Act is being prepared, which will follow the standard legislative route. So much for yesterday's meeting. Today, I have learned that this amendment must be incorporated into the standard legislative path and it is not possible for this amendment to be approved by the five-police today. So please make a deal. If you always insist on a standard legislative path, then act accordingly. One day you say one thing, the next day the other thing. Please, this normal amendment, which in a similar way was adopted by the last House, I do not know why you seek politics and not normal human decency. Saving life is just an exhausting operation, and I don't know which one of us could handle this long-term stress for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u13	Thank you for keeping time. It is registered - now only Mr. Marek Výborný's application is in order. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. What can I say? By your help, Mr Brázdil: The House is for us to have a substantive, solid debate here. It's perfectly legitimate that we have different opinions about some things, but if there's one thing I don't like, it's insults and things that aren't true. I don't know if you listened to the Minister. The Minister hasn't said a word here about us not appreciating the work of the integrated rescue system or the medical rescue service. The Minister has made it clear to you how to proceed. The fact that the proposal you made last year with the error unfortunately will be corrected at the same time as you propose, but in those parameters, for example, to involve the employers. It's important, so we're gonna approve a mistake here today to fix it in three months, and you're gonna come out here in the position of insulting other people, insulting the Minister. You perform like a demagog...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u15	Please, through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u16	... just because - I said in the beginning that it was all through the Vice-President - and that bothers me. Why aren't we having a substantive debate? Why are you doing this? I might know one answer. The answer is September, because you have some engagements there, too. It's totally obvious. I'm bohužel so. You're the one who's politicizing it, Mr. Colleague. And I'm sorry. If we had a matter-of-fact debate here, that's where we belong, and that makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u17	Thank you for keeping the time, but there have been a number of other factual ones. I beg you very much to address me through me. So now Minister Marian Jurečka is signed in, then Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Milan Brázdil, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, on the ground. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u18	Thank you. I will now allow myself to speak to representatives of the medical rescue services of the Czech Republic, who are present here at the gallery. First of all, we appreciate the service you do for our citizens. Here to give us something to put in your mouth that here - the word you used, my colleague, is beyond what this House has to hear. I think that we appreciate these people, just as I appreciate the people who do the mountain service they do in the field of mining services, water rescuers and others. I want to say that all these people, I think, this House and the representatives of the coalition respect and thank you very much for the work. We're just saying that you can't exactly say that in the parameters that you guys have designed here, and you've designed them repeatedly in a different way that there's no employer participation or anything like that. But I just want to make a point. You mentioned that our resort was working on it. Yes, unlike my predecessor, I said that anyone who comes to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be given co-operation in preparing a legislative proposal, but not in relation to whether such an approach is on the side of the government coalition from the point of view of parameters. There's a logical difference - that you have another parametric view and we have another. And I say one key thing about this: we want the employer's participation there to be better defined the conditions of the service worked in connection with the years of the early departure. Because we will create a precedent, with every open amendment to the law, there will be more and more folders that they want - we want to be in this category as well. And I understand them. I think that, for example, the work of a nurse, a nurse in an intensive care unit after 20 years, is also extremely demanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Milan Brázdil is in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u20	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, respond to Mr Výborný, when he said beautifully here that legislation will be corrected, he must go into due process. In fact, she already said half to Mrs. Ožanová in front of me, through you. But speaking of repairs, I listened carefully to the Minister, and the Minister said that this amendment is being made because what was actually done wrong in foster care has to be corrected. He říci fix it. And actually, members of the ANO movement are also simply correcting what was wrong in that law, because it is not applicable. So maybe he's sensitive to you because it's perfectly logical. Dr. Brázdil's 20, over 20 years, 30 years in the rescue service, so don't be mad, the emotions are just there. That's perfectly logical. Just like I had emotions here yesterday, and I think I've been holding on a lot, and I've been sticking to the Service Act a lot, even though the Secretary of War here told me to take some tranquilizers. But in any case, he doesn't mean any harm. Just fix what's wrong in there. That's all. It's really legislatively technical. I've been doing the legislation, and I've been looking at it, and it's really legtech. It's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u21	Thank you. And so now, Mr Brázdil, with de facto effect. She will prepare herself with the de facto Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u22	Guess it'd be nice for a guy to defend himself. I know how to do it, and we're trained for it. I won't do it, Mr. Výborný. I'm not gonna apologize to you or anything. If I was emotional, yes, I know what I'm talking about. But I'm not gonna apologize for anything. I stand by what I said. And to Mr. Jurečka, Minister Jurečka, Marian Jurečka: Did you... did you raise your voice for it, raise your hand, and now you say it should be done differently? You'll change your mind in a year? How was it then? What changed that year? People were just under a lot of pressure, and you said yes, we're gonna do it. They're not under that kind of pressure these days? And you want it, you actually... I know what you want, you told me here - just don't fill it! They don't want it to be that after 20 years, you can do it for up to five years. They say it should be less. They're afraid you'll abuse it! They're worried it's actually gonna be some kind of policy that you guys are gonna do at the ambulance and that an ambulance is gonna leave. It's not like that! You know it, I know it, you all know it. Please give a neutral position when we are and let everyone vote for it no matter what they say. Is it complicated? What are you gonna lose? Or do you get something out of it? It's not gonna get you anything. They're gonna be pissed. In fact, you're not gonna get anything out of it, they're just gonna be mad at you for doing something that you've already raised your hand for. Marian, you raised your hand for it! You didn't even get off when it was bad or something. And now you say we have to redo it! What did they do to you? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u23	Thank you. It is now registered with the factual remark of Mrs Hanzlíková, then Minister Marian Jurečka, and then also with the de facto President Tomio Okamura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we all agree here that paramedics are a specific profession, extremely demanding physically, mentally, we all agree on that. We all agree that this is really just a legislative technical change, a correction of something that has already been approved here. Then I don't understand why you won't support it, and I want to ask you a lot. Because I have one more thing in mind. I have been involved in the processing of actually the first proposals relating to early retirement in demanding professions, and I must say that the discussions about this are so complex that I really do not believe that it would be possible for it to happen and that this change could actually apply to rescuers from 1. 1. 2023, please, let's change it today, and I'm asking you to raise your hand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u25	Thank you. Now there is room for the Minister's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u26	Thank you. Maybe here for the colleagues who are guests at the gallery, I'll just explain how the legislative process is going. Last year, the legislation was adopted, and when we left the House, even in the vote, the votes were that it was not ideally set. There were voices if the Senate wasn't supposed to fix it, but the Senate couldn't fix it. Because if the Senate did it, he would return it, he wouldn't have anyone to return it to, because the House was already dissolved, or there were elections. You know very well that the possibility was no longer there. Even subject to this, it went through the entire legislative process. Our senators had serious reservations about not bringing it back here, and that's when the law would fall under the table, the novel. Including the 500 mommy that's there. That's why we let it go, we all know who we were in the House during the last parliamentary term. This year we said, we are preparing an amendment that makes changes in the pension system for 2023, including the correction of this issue. And he lined up, and I suggested that the foster parents sort out this novel separately for the first reading. Let's just tell each other how these things go. So the commitment that it needs to be fixed by January 1, 2023, that's here, that's what I'm holding. And I said that in September, we're going to discuss the draft of the press that is going through the ordinary legislative process, the inter-ministerial commentary procedure is over, and the proposal will go to the government. So let's separate what we're discussing about foster parents now and here and why I'm saying let's just do foster parents, we need to do it fast, 'cause we're looking at foster parents every month of efficiency. This is about January 1, 2023. So let's get this straight! And again, don't say that nobody here appreciates the work of people who act as doctors, nurses, drivers in the medical rescue service of the Czech Republic. It's not like that. We're going in the same direction, we're just different in some parameters, and I was explaining that here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u27	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Tomio Okamura. Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready, again with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, our SPD MEP will support a proposal granting full and unabbreviated early retirement pensions after reaching 60 years of age to employees who have worked for at least 20 years in the components of an integrated rescue system, such as paramedics and rescue workers or mountain services, because their work is greatly appreciated. I would also like to say that we in the SPD also greatly appreciate the good work of foster parents who are literally keeping our system of care for abandoned and endangered children, including children with disabilities, above water. In the long term, we support strengthening the legal status of foster parents and increasing their remuneration. Of course, we also support the help of unmediated foster parents in the way that their care for entrusted children will be included in the so-called supplementary period of pension insurance, the length of which will be included in the worked period for entitlement to an old-age pension. But, at the same time, our Member, Lucie Šafránková, tabled an amendment for the SPD to eliminate the injustice of the government's draft so that the inclusion in the supplementary period of pension insurance concerns really all unmediated foster parents, not just those who took over the children's care before 1 January 2022, as the government proposes. We consider this completely unjustified and discriminatory. I would also like to remind you that, under the SPD, we have tabled an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, where we propose to increase the basic salary of all pensions, i.e. old-age, disabled and survivors, from 10 percent of the average wage to 13 percent. In practice, this would mean an increase in all pensions for all their beneficiaries by the same amount of approximately CZK 1,800 per month. We also submitted a proposal to increase the parental allowance by CZK 60,000 so that we could help families with the smallest children under four years of age cope with the enormous increase in prices of all basic life needs. The SPD supports decent and working people, and we want to help them at this time, when the government is not dealing with price increases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u29	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, Mrs Berenika Peštová and then again with the de facto Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u30	I'd like to respond to the Minister. I've already told you that I've done the legislation, so I know the processes, and I know the deadlines. You said it would go into an interdepartmental commentary, which means it hasn't been possible yet. I'm - I'm sorry, I asked my colleagues there, they said they heard him go. Is it done? It is. The deadline, if you don't mind me asking, is 14 there short, or is it for a month because it's the law? A month's notice, may I ask? [[To the minister at the newsstand.]] Or if you're...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u31	Please, the reactions will be on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u32	Sure. Okay, well, write it down, I'm interested, write a note, I'm interested in the deadline for which you put it into an inter-departmental review procedure, because either you're putting it on a month's notice, it's a law, or, of course, you're going to ask the Government Legislative Council for a shortened deadline. So please, so I can respond to how long you put it in there. The moment you put the law in the interdepartment, even if it's a small adjustment, it comes back completely torn. I'm sure whoever did the legislation will nod to me now and know what I'm talking about. Although a small adjustment, just every ministry, every commentary space puts its own. Then the next one, of course, comes up with what you have to deal with, so you go with individual comment points to the settlement process. That's phase two. Then, of course, the law will continue to go to the Legislative Council of the Government, and now there will be deadlines and further and further deadlines. That is, there are committees that have to go to, where, of course, you have to defend the law, then it goes to the plenary of the Government Legislative Council, if you don't ask for an exception, then it goes to the government, then it goes here. So I think that September is completely unrealistic. Absolutely unrealistic. First of all. Two. Before it passes through the Chamber of Deputies, before it passes through the Senate, if the Senate doesn't return it, and now those deadlines are bouncing in and out. And another time limit that interests me if it is to be applied in practice from 1. 1. 2023, of course, someone has to prepare for it. If it pays off or if they want to go into early retirement, there must, of course, be some time limit for it to be realized at all. So I think today is the time to approve. [[Your time.]] [[Your time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u33	Madam, your time is up. [[Thank you for turning me off.]] I have to measure everyone fair and square. The passage of time isn't really possible. I'm going to ask the minister now with his two minutes. Everyone's doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u34	Thank you. Perhaps I will allow myself to say, through you, Madam President, the same rules apply to everyone here. Many of us, too, have simply turned off the microphone once the two-minute deadline has been exceeded. Do not take that there is some contradiction between the President's procedure here, according to the Rules of Procedure. I went through it several times, too, that my microphone was turned off. So don't get upset and tell me someone turned you off. [[President: Please, through me.]] Yes, through Madam President, absolutely right. Thank you for the correct approach to everyone. And I don't think the former Deputy Minister needs to correct me in the way the legislative process is going. I've been a minister for four years. I've been through this legislative process. You were the deputy. And we've also made five laws here in the last month and a half. Five amendments to the laws we've made, even in procedures that were very time-consuming, but we've made it. So we have a closed interdepartmental reminder procedure. And if you want to be a Member, and every legislator has the right to log in to the eKLEP system, and there you can see exactly what stage the press is at. I assume you're doing this when you say you're doing this legislation, you're a legislator, so you're watching these things. And I'm going back to not thinking about it again, it's from 1. 1. 2023. We're counting on the adjustment. We reckon there will be those who are members of the medical rescue service of the Czech Republic. At the same time, I explained here that we are taking a step that is in a way unprecedented, because already during this debate representatives of municipal police, mining rescue services, mountain services, water rescue, all of them were with me and said, we also want to take into account the demands of our profession in some way. And for objective reasons, you have to say yes, the profession is also challenging. And I just need this state, and it's not because of me, but it's generally because of this state's approach, it's already got the rules tuned for those debates around other challenging professions. You can't rip one out and say-- that's how it's gonna be. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u35	Thank you. Only for maybe listening, members of the government can be addressed directly, Members can not. [[at the gallery for guests]] And now I will ask Mrs Berenika Peštová again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u36	Thank you. So even though I tried to drive like a machine gun, it didn't help me anyway, two minutes is really two minutes. I'm sorry if I... But at least I expected you to let me finish that sentence. In any case, Minister, I'm watching the eKLEP, but since I'm focused on the environment, I can't prosecute all the laws to keep an eye on the eKLEP as they come back to you. That's why I expected you to tell me that after the settlement, you've got about how many significant comments back, which I hope you'll tell me here to know, so you can kind of figure out in your head when you're able to deal with it. I would like to see, therefore, if this is, I would like to see the settlement tables, because, of course, you have to deal with every fundamental comment. And there's the wheels. So I'm telling you, today is the best time, the best time to accept it. 'Cause I don't believe it when you tell me the number that you've gotten your big points because I saw that you already got your text, so you'll be able to answer me, so I'm sure you'll tell me, it's just unrealistic. I say that this is unrealistic in terms of deadlines that must be approved. As long as you don't want to approve with a 90-year-old here. But if there's only one change, we can do it now. If not, then, of course, it'll probably go to the committees and it won't be able to be approved by the 90's. That would really be enough for this House of Nineties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u37	I also thank you for keeping time. And that concludes the applications for factual remarks, so we can return to the general debate properly registered. And before I apologise to the Member, there are a number of apologies received, and Mr Jan Richter apologizes today between 9.00 and 9.50 because of a doctor's visit, Mr David Kasal today for work reasons for the House's meetings, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda today for family reasons, and Mr Julius Špičák today from 14.00 for health reasons. Those were some apologies. Now, madam, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Much was said in the factual notes before my turn. Even I greet my colleagues, with whom I have worked since the year, are younger, but I have been a paramedic since 1989. [[at the gallery for guests]] And thank you for coming. It's not easy for me to talk, either, but I don't want to be here again, through you, by one of the club presidents, telling me that we're playing some kind of theater here and that there are emotions here. A colleague is emotional. It bothers me, too, what's going on here, because I really know about a lot of you that yours today - you probably won't raise your hand against it, that would be really behind the edge, so I guess you'll stick around, it's the same thing that it won't be approved. Last Friday, when we were supposed to discuss this law and come here to support the rescue workers and colleagues from the mountain service, the President, by your means, said Výborný that this law cannot be discussed because there is no Minister Jurečka, which we understand was excused, okay. But he said one more thing. And I really want to know the answer to what you said here. I'm afraid I didn't take it off the log. I think all my colleagues heard it upstairs, you said that the amendment was wrong, that it was legislatively wrong. And I said that we had it on the Social Policy Guarantee Committee, where we voted on this amendment. There were representatives of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and no one told us about the mistake, I don't know what it was, he didn't warn us. You said that the employees of the Ministry of Labour are working carefully to correct it and that you will decide by your vote when Minister Jurečka is here. So I ask, where is your error in the amendment, specifically in the amendment by my colleague Brázdil, Mašek and mine? If you answer, I'd love to. Is it a mistake that you want to involve employers there? That's not a mistake, that's what you want. I want to know the error in the particular amendment that was loaded. As my colleague Berenika Peštová, through you, Minister, you will come before us here with the fact that you want to and that you are telling everyone here, and your colleagues upstairs, that you have actually come here to correct the mistake that we made in the last term, and that they are foster parents. I agree with you. I'm sure I'll support the correction. But the same mistake, as colleagues have said, has also happened in this amendment, and we now want to correct it. I have been to you, and I say, please, approve, prepare, I understand, we have not approved some of your amendments when we were in the government, because we wanted to make the bow ourselves, that it is our proposal, that I would completely delete it here, because the law applies, it just cannot be applied in practice. So, as much as I respect foster parents, I'm also communicating with them, we're fixing them today. [[10.10 hours]] And you, as an insurance policy, just an insurance policy that you could make today, and then work quietly and have no stress if you make it to 1. 1. 2023... If you make it, fine. But as I have information, I would also like to ask you, through Madam President, Minister, whether you will tell us or answer that what you are preparing in this new law of yours will be exactly the same for those rescue workers as we are proposing, with the fact that really after the exchange operation, 20 years in the ambulance, the processing of the clock will have a chance - not that they will go, they will have a chance really about the five years if this is there. 'Cause I heard it wasn't there, it was a year or two. Let's go say yes, I'll make it to 1. 1. 2023 just as much about the five years, but I, Minister Marian Jurečka, will give it to you paramedics. So the first thing-- what was the error in this changer's legislative tech? Second, if your new pension insurance scheme is going to be exactly the same for these rescuers as it is now, five years after you've worked with employers' involvement, as you say. And as my colleague Berenika Peštová said, through you, I am really afraid, because I am here in the third term, I know how the legislation is going. And the fact that Mrs Peštová, through you, explained the legislation as it is here, was not for you, you know it, it was for the people upstairs, because they don't care if it's the first, second, third reading, the Senate comes back - it's not, Mr. President. That was for them. Like you explained what happened in the last term, that we let the Senate go through it because of the moms and the 500. But we can fix it as insurance today. We fix it, they'll be okay with it from 1. 1. 2023 can pay, and you, if you submit - and it didn't happen here once - you bring in a new law, so it goes into a new law and this just doesn't apply. But you can make sure that you fix it today, if you're here, if you tell us, I doubt that in the law you're proposing, it'll be exactly the same for the paramedics as our amendment. Because I'm afraid it won't be. 'Cause I'm worried that those five are getting married there for a year or two. [[He's turning to the people at the guest gallery.]] Remember that when we pass the law here, the new law from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm here -- now it's lost on my phone, I'll try to say it in my head -- press release, there's a union rep sitting there appealing to you to approve. So they wanted us to return it to the second reading to correct the error in the amendment that the President, through you, said on Friday that the error was there, and return it to the second reading. And we're gonna make it, like, easy. But you don't want to, you just want to have the bow yourself. I'm sorry. I said it the other day that our coalition colleagues worked with us on the switchboard - I don't know if they're paramedics, but they're paramedics. And through yours, Mr. Chairman Výborný, you know, we paramedics have those emotions, and we still have them for 30 years when we go there. But it seems to me that you're the one who blames us. If a politician doesn't have emotions, we have emotions, we just show ourselves. And finally. Really, don't take that as an insult, really. We're starting a new wave of covid, everywhere. We've got over 2,000 infected, no mention of it at all. I'm sorry the Minister of Health isn't here today because the paramedics are medical-related. We're making a law now on pension insurance, that's true, but they work for health care. I don't know if you read somewhere now that he's thanking you - no, he's not covid, now you're not so visible, now you're not so needed, now you're doing your normal job. You don't, because we have here again, as I know from my colleagues, refugees who also need your help, you also have a lot of trips to these people, it's summer, they're accidents, we all know, paramedics, that in summer trips are associated with tourism, more accidents than even internal things. But the wave is coming. I think it's coming, I'd hate for it to go the way it was here, but we've got over 2,000 here, and it can happen that in the summer, the paramedics are going to get back into a situation that they're gonna wear those white, impervious jumpsuits, they're gonna disinfect all the ambulances after each exit, and they're gonna be in the first wave that's gonna go full. And now I'm gonna go back to what I was gonna say. When you, Minister, were appointed as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I said that I knew you, that you were hardworking, but that I knew you as Minister of Agriculture, because I think you were good at that. Now you're doing the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And now, no offense, I think that if you could trade a tractor in the summer for an ambulance in the neoprene that they're driving, and you were there with them that month on the covid, two, you might change your decision today. I really appeal to everyone, think about what you're voting for today. You don't vote for anything but the legislative technical change of the mistakes we've made, we've admitted it, I'm sorry, you voted for it. And I say, if we approve it, it's insurance, insurance, that even if you make a new pension insurance law in bows, and that I hope you'll answer that it's gonna be the same thing, five years after all those hours and sixty years of the employee's age, if it's gonna be the same, then let's make a policy and work in peace, absolutely calm. But I'm convinced you won't put in five years. Remember, they'll be there for a year or two. And then look into those people's eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u39	Thank you. And Mr. Marek, Mr. Výborný, came forward with a point of fact. Mr. Jiří Mašek can prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u40	Thank you, I'll just be very brief, I've been asked by a colleague. So here was the opinion of the Ministry of Interior legislation, which also has an integrated rescue system under its jurisdiction, with the fact that the set or the group to which it is directed is not exactly defined, clearly defined and could be exploitable. I don't want to argue about-- [[Some Members YES: That is not true.]] I don't want to argue about it, please, I don't want to argue about whether or not the view of legislation is correct and justified. There's no point at this point. I have no reason not to believe - and I understand that you, as opposed to this government, have not put your trust in this government and that you may be concerned whether the word minister pays or does not pay. But if the Minister has made it clear on the microphone that the matter will be prepared and approved so that it will actually pay from 1 January 2023, then I tell you that I trust the Minister, and we as KDU-ČSL also guarantee it. And I am sorry, my colleague, through Madam President, one thing. Say "no offense" and then spit such poisonous saliva, I say good, I'm sorry, really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u41	Thank you. And now, Mr Jiří Mašek is duly signed in, and then Mrs Andrea Babišová can prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u42	Dear Ministers here, Madam President, I will try to sum up some things completely without emotion and respond to some things here and then finally make a proposal for a legislative technical amendment to my amendment number 953. My proposal is a little different from Milan Brázdil's proposal - and here I answer to Minister Jurečka that it concerns the IRS. [[10.20 hours]] Yes, even the last proposal for which we all raised our hand last year was about an integrated rescue system. So it was about a clearly defined set that has some social advantages, and a set that, if we add those benefits to the ambulance, we're actually going to settle the paramedics' terms. And it's just that if it were about the IZS core files, exactly how the other files, such as corporate firefighters, like the municipal and urban police, like the railroad police, go to the minister's office, we've been working with all of them for four years. We prepared this together on subcommittees. We were preparing this with the opposition, today coalition representatives, and we were working on it this year. And that's where all these rail firefighters and other files go. And the point of the game was that if we open the way to the rescue service by making it a change for the basic components of the IZS, then when the IZS Act was opened, it would be perfectly legally possible to move the folders like the railway, business firefighters and so on after approval. The proposal was completely systemic, it was a yes, everyone knows it. The railway firefighters know it, the local police, their representatives know it, and we've been discussing it for four years. We prepared it, last year we approved it with a common hand, unfortunately with legislative technical errors, which unfortunately I made there. I'm admitting it here, and I'm sorry about all of it. As the Minister said, it was to be repaired in the Senate, it was prepared and rather for political reasons, not that it could not be done, it could be done, but for political reasons it went through the Senate and it is valid from 1 January next year. At the same time I know - and I can already answer my colleague Pastuchová for the Minister, I have seen the Minister's proposal, there it is about wedged, and such I think very debatable, rescuers and only rescuers and mountain services between so-called difficult professions or difficult professions. These are all professions of category 4, that's one, which are sanitary categories, and the ambulance has a number two, so it doesn't belong there, and there's gonna be a huge discussion and a lot of it. But we also know what the Ministry is promising. That's the promise of retirement benefits by two years, that's all the paramedics are gonna get there. So we can already say, my friends, that what the Minister promises you is basically a denial of what we've approved here, and it's a reduction in that claim by at least three years. So it's wrong. And, Minister, confirm it on the microphone, that's just what the proposal is. The fact that it is unattainable from the point of view of the future, that it cannot be done by 1 January 2023, Mrs Peštová explained this here and I will not go back to that. So the municipal police, corporate and railroad firefighters don't want to be thrown overboard, and my Amendment 953 is handling it. My colleague Brázdil came up with, in quotes, a moderate proposal concerning rescue services and mountain services, a sort of retreat, but I think if we wanted to honestly address this in the spirit of what we approved last year, it should be that Amendment 953. But I will return to my colleague Výborný and last week, and again, it was Mrs Pastuchová's question. But, Mr Výborný, you said here last week - I know that there was controversy about whether anyone could represent the apologized colleague Jurečka, in the end it turned out that he proposed and approved the date of today's discussion - but you said there were some other things that need to be adjusted, that the Ministry would be on it... or that he was working hard to do so so that we could approve it here today in the modified version. That's how we understood it here, that's how the people on the balcony understood it. It's completely different now, okay? So, for God's sake, let's just take it like men. Say, we don't want to approve, or... but last week it went so wrong that it's gonna be done, even if it wasn't said what, and I'd like to ask you, since you said on the microphone that you had an opinion that there was a mistake, so I assume you have it in writing, so we'd like to see it in the opinion of the legislation, see that there's a mistake. So it's probably the basic stuff from me, I'm not gonna argue with the difficulty of the job, if we're gonna go in suits in the fall, or we're not, it's just our job, we're doing it. But the enormous difference is that our proposal, which we want to correct today, which we all originally approved, was a proposal on the possibility of going back to retirement earlier if it was necessary for health, mental and similar reasons. By your suggestion, Minister, you want to shorten it for two years to the maximum and also, in principle, threaten that your proposal may not be accepted at all. And since I should say another legislative technical amendment to my proposal, so if we vote on it, I would like to vote on the logic of the matter first on the wider option, mine, which concerns the integrated rescue system and which allows for the future to be dealt with, as the Minister wishes, also municipal police, railway firefighters and business, and then, in the case of not voting on the option of Brázdil, that is to say 951, which concerns rescue services and mountain services. And I would also like to ask for validity from 1 January 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u43	Thank you. And now another duly registered Mrs Andrea Babišová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. You can say, dear colleagues, that at this point, there are paramedics, paramedics and so on. Yes, I'm applying, too. I'm one of them. I'm not a paramedic, I'm a nurse, surgical practice for 25 years. Each of us, your parents, has experienced when you need help, whether it was a paramedic, because you got dressed badly and stayed somewhere frozen in the mountains, whoever it was that needed to be cut off in a car accident, whoever it was that needed to be injected because he had an allergic reaction. Each of you is looking at the paramedic and waiting to help you. You see, he's in good shape, he's okay, he's okay, because he's only gonna care about you. Minister, I'm turning to you because you've been talking to us all day today about doing everything you can to make it effective from 1. 1. 2023, in the Government's legislative proposal, you have been effective since 1. 7. 2023. That's six months away. So I would like to explain what is true. In the comment procedure, the deadline is 1. 7. 2023. One thing. Second thing. As Mr Mašek has already said here, it will not really be five years, the possibility of five years of retirement, but with all the comments that have already been made on this proposal, it will only be three years at the most. Three years, tops. These people are hearing it, these people are seeing it, and you're still telling us that by 1. 1. 2023's gonna make it. President Excellent, through Madam President, for KDU-ČSL guarantees that this will be from 1. 1. 2023, however, in the legislative proposal is 1. 7. 2023. So please explain it to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u45	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil has yet to sign up. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u46	Thank you for the floor. Please, fellow Members, I would like to propose under Paragraph 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. I submit a proposal for a repetition of the second reading, which is to be put to the vote immediately, a procedural proposal - and I quote it precisely. What am I giving? I am giving the Minister a chance to meet again this afternoon or tomorrow at this point, so that within seven days - that is the shortest time - this bill can be re-readed here at third reading, and thus insert your correction there, through the Ministry or by you, and everything will be fine, in the spirit of maintaining this law as you have said here, i.e. maintaining the possibility of retirement up to five years in fulfilling twenty years of practice and completing those sixty years, as you voted in favour. [[10.30 hours]] One more time, then. I'm making a motion that we have to vote on a re-reading procedure today, and de facto, within eight days, it could be here. What you have already prepared, what you said, with the preservation of all that you raised your hand for, and I am so glad that my colleagues are coming back. I hope you can help the Minister because he wants you to. We didn't want it. We'd rather you could vote freely and raise your hand for it now, and then it's fixed. But if it's a condition that you want it different, first you want to adjust, then please, this chance is here. I hope you can help the Minister to do it this way. He asked for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u47	Thank you. We will now take turns in the chair, however, I only have to do this Section 95 para. 2. Of course, at the third reading you can make a motion for a repeat of second reading, it is quite all right, only the vote here always occurred somehow within the framework of the procedure after the possibility of the final word of the applicant and rapporteur, and then it happened, the proposal. So I just want to make sure that if you don't insist, we'll do it the way we used to. [[Mr Brázdil agrees.]] And so I am now handing over the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u48	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Now it is signed with priority law still in the debate by President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u49	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, but especially nice paramedics, after five days, I greet you again from this place. We haven't moved much. I'm most sorry about that. But I repeat again, as I did five days ago, I repeat from this place that we appreciate your work, and that is why, especially my colleagues here, and I must say that I personally was personally touched by the speech of my honourable fellow Member, Mr Brázdil, and I really felt touched by his words, because he spoke authentic paramedics, a man who simply spoke for you and spoke about your work. And that was all the more valuable to me, his performance. I would like to say that I have pulled out - and I have not been a Member in the last term - from my fellow Members to this law, as there have been different opinions, and I really must say that the current five-wheeler, just for all of you, is consistent, except for one side. There was no one here for it. No one, no ODS, no STAN, no pirát. I couldn't find anyone with an "A" on it. The only party in favour of it then, or its Members at the time, whether I speak precisely for it, was KDU-ČSL. And I actually have names here. I will choose only those who are still in the Chamber of Deputies and who were then present and voted: Pavel Bělobrádek - yes, Marian Jurečka - yes, Ondřej Benešík - yes, Vít Kaňkovský - yes. Then there is Mr Čižinský - yes, but he is no longer a Member. So I can just talk to the people who are here. So I'm thinking, where's the minister? The minister is over there. - I'm wondering, where's the shift in Marian Jurečka's mind? I can't believe his brain was clouded by a ministerial function. He's one of the few who's already been a minister, then he's not to be again, so I'm sure he knows that's the way politics works. One day you're there, another day, so I don't believe it. So then I think it's undoubtedly the influence of coalition partners, because they have remained in their vote and in their position on this issue completely consistent. I don't have any other explanation for this. That's enough. Let's leave things here that I think are unclear to you if the legislative process is there and if it's in eKLEP. You're doing your job, you're doing your best here, you understand her, and this is our job. I think it would be fair - we all understood, unfortunately, and I am extremely sorry, terribly sorry! that you simply will not support it today. And I think it was fair, Minister, when you're here - I appreciate that you're here because this debate couldn't have been going on here for logical reasons last week because you weren't here - say clearly, completely humanely not for us, for those people up there, so they can tell their colleagues what it's gonna be like. Don't tell me, it has to be done, it has to be done and other groups. I understand there are other groups like nurses, I've been through these debates, so there's gonna be another debate, but there's got to be a start somewhere. And a group of paramedics, this is medical, mountain rescue... A group of paramedics, or part of an integrated rescue system, was chosen logically because we were after the covid, because we all thanked them here because they were all putting their lives, literally lives, saving us, saving us from the huge mess we found ourselves in in this health crisis - so tell us how it will be, for them intelligibly. Tell me, I have prepared a legislative proposal, it will be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies then and it will be from 1 January 2023. I don't know, I don't want to put words in your mouth. I'm just saying, make it clear. Or it won't be from January 1, 2023. I'll design ninety. The parameters are like this. He'll be there for so many years. Here's how it's gonna be. It's going to be about this. Please tell them! Tell them and be fair or tell them it won't be for them to know what they're coming home with! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u50	Mr Brázdil has now made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u51	Mr. Marian Jurečka, to give you a moment to think about the answer, I don't know if this performance of mine is technical, if an apology is technical, but I would like to apologize to the Prime Minister here. I pulled out a pencil last time, and I wanted to see if he could... I went to see him, he accepted the apology, but I wanted to say it publicly. Maybe it felt bad that I was pushing too hard or something. I just wanted it to be discussed in those intensities that we've already approved, just modified legislatively technically and on that Friday. I'm sorry about the mic again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u52	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Jurečka is still reporting in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u53	Thank you. So I would like to respond, even though I said those things here in the debate, even when we were having a technical discussion here in the technical notes that this part of the health care rescue service is effective on January 1, 2023. Other changes in this law, when we deal with other parameters of changes in the pension system, including some things directly affecting the activities of the Czech Social Security Administration, there is then the effectiveness of all the other things proposed for 1. 7. 2023. We're aware of that. We have to do it this way, we made that clear. I'm just taking a few notes here. So you're getting out here and saying how it should be. You say you've been working on it for four years. So I'm thinking, why wasn't the proposal submitted by the last government? Why was it here at the last minute by the amendment of Members? You were part of a government coalition. It's just a comment on where we were in the past period. Now this government comes and has it in its programming statement, and we say that we want to address complex issues of challenging professions, because this situation requires it, and we say that the principle should have some basic parameters, including participation and involvement by the employer with the higher contribution. This is the first thing where we don't meet in your proposal and the way we look at it because it's important. First, because of some balancing of the pension system of the revenue and expenditure parties. After that, society calls and says, politicians, solve the financing of pensions for the future. So we say yes, challenging professions - we want to make it possible. We want to make this possible, not for 20 years, but in this proposal we basically say for worked shifts, when I say it simplisticly, every ten years it would be a year, and this is how we approach it in the other professions, in principle, again I say the same thing, because when you open this one parametric adjustment for one group of people, we have to say, the approach of the state is to be balanced in this and against the other demanding professions. [[10.40 hours]] So that's what we say here as a government coalition. We want to work this out, fix it, in the case of medical rescue, we've been counting on it since January 1st, that's the message for colleagues here. From the perspective of the legislative process, I said some things here two months ago that we were going to do them and we were able to do them, and we were able to do them as of July 1st. And here I thank you properly for the opposition that we have been able to agree on this. But please nicely, this is the concern of us at this moment. The Minister is responsible for saying that he will meet a deadline in order to do so from the point of view of the government's discussion, we have completed the commentary procedure, we are giving the proposal to the Legislative Council of the Government and to the Government. There are some comments that we will be discussing on that crucial level with the government, because the former Deputy Minister herself knows very well that you will simply not be able to deal with some of the department's comments. They really belong to a government-level negotiation, for example. So let's approach here this way. And I really don't think it's fair to argue here with the question of the covid. Because even those people who serve in hospitals around covid patients, and not only about covid, as I mentioned to nurses who work on arse, on ICUs, people who work in hospices, they're also demanding professions physically, mentally, so please don't take this argument completely out of context, because it's unfair to the others again. And I understand that this is where the emotions belong, but I would like those emotions to be within the limits of decency, and not that Mr. Brázdil here is saying in his speech that we do not belong to the people who work as paramedics - I think he used a word that I think is not part of the dictionary that is supposed to be heard here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So please let's just keep those emotions in the right boundaries again. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] A clear commitment applies: January 2023. There will be early departures in that system, there will be principles like employers' participation, because we said these things that we just want to have in that system and in those principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u54	Thank you, too. But there are now factual points, Madam President, and there are several. So first, Mr Mašek, with his own facts and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared, followed by Mr Brázdil. And please, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u55	Madam President, fellow Members, fellow ministers, I would still like to respond to Minister Jurečka. And it's still misunderstood. Minister Jurečka, last year we decided to approve early pensions for the integrated rescue system. I personally spoke to the police president and the general director of firefighters. And in individual cases, they would have the kind of firefighters to which it would apply, because it might be more advantageous for them than the system of debt. So it was a system solution, but at this point, it would be a system solution to the rescue team. It just had a head and a heel. It's a clearly defined group, we won't involve nurses, conductors, pilots, and no one else, because a number of professions have interests. But there was a gradual change in the IZS Act to move the railway firefighters you mentioned, the municipal policemen mentioned, after consideration, and it would be open to the IZS Act and it would be debatable. What you're suggesting is completely different. It's the idea of paramedics among the so-called challenging professions of category four, where they don't just belong. These are walking metallurgical workers, hard-working people, it's unsystemic, and it shortens the paramedics' claim by at least two and a half years. That's just the way it is. We could have fixed it here. Like today when you say we're fixing foster homes, it's a need, it's a fix for what went wrong last year, so this is exactly the same thing. So if anything could've happened here today, that's exactly what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u56	It is now registered with Mrs Pastuchová in fact. And once again, my colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u57	Thank you, thank you, Madam President. I thank the President Excellent, by your means, that he has answered me that there is actually a mistake, but it is not the fault of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but the fault of the Ministry of the Interior. So we have the Home Secretary here, so I would ask the Home Secretary, through you, if he were so kind, because you didn't show her to us, we don't know, and that's why my colleague Brázdil proposes to put it into second reading so that we can fix it. And you're actually, Minister Jurečka, I was begging you to tell these colleagues here that it's gonna be the same in the law for five years. And you just said one sentence here, and maybe I misunderstood it would be a year in ten years. So in 50 years, my fellow Members, I don't know how many years we're gonna be working there, and in 50 years, we're gonna reach the five years. So you answered here that you're preparing it in a completely different form for the paramedics, and it's not gonna be that five years in 20 years. If I misunderstand, please correct me. But we have something else in the proposal, and you are specifically... Those paramedics don't understand what you're preparing, they don't care about legislation. Will it be there? Say yes, no. He's gonna be there five to five years in 20 years, isn't he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u58	Mr Brázdil is now registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u59	Dear paramedics, did you hear that? You heard the man. You heard exactly that Marian Jurečka said - we're not going to do it the way it is in the law. He wants to cancel what's in the law, but he wants to replace it with something else. You've got 50 years, you'd have to work in a full-time process for 50 years, you've been studying before, of course. That's unrealistic! A plan to bring together the IRS and a particularly serious profession. [[unintelligible]] Please, it's completely different, it's a closed group of three files. And now you've told them that we're not actually voting now, but you're taking it away from them. And you'll never get it, what's already in the law! We just want to make this right, make it work. Please, then do it and do it any way you want. [[He speaks very strongly.]] Now just lift up, colleagues, once again, I beg you, Mr Marian Jurečka will certainly give a free vote, say neutral, and you will think about it. Too much for all of you from all over the Republic, for mountain duty, for saving service, please consider it so that one day you can look your paramedics in the eye when they help you, say: that was me that made it possible for you if you were sick, if you couldn't handle it, so that you wouldn't end up on the pavement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u60	We are still in the debate, and it is now signed with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u61	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. One more time, Minister. Please, I'm begging you, I understand from your answer - let's leave the bag, let's leave everything, let's not drag anything, just a simple answer. I understand that you want efficiency from 1 January 2023 for this circle of people, but I don't understand the parameters anymore. My colleagues have done something to confirm or disprove this place. Tell me clearly - I know, you tell me: they're still in the commentary process, the government, and so on. Say, "I designed this, nice paramedics," so please understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u62	Thank you, too. No one is now reporting for the debate. If that is the case, I am done with the debate. Is there any interest in the final word of the petitioner? He's interested. So please, Mr. Speaker first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u63	Thank you. I think the debate here was extensive. I said those things in terms of commitment, as of January 1st, we'll do those steps. We see the principle in some of the views of this setting a little differently than you do, but the principle of these people being entitled to leave earlier is here. We have set it directly to the number of worked shifts, not for years, that's important. We also have a more helpful approach to people who have worked less than 20 years, so there is a different view of the proposal. But maybe I'm going back to the reality of why we're actually discussing this press today, and that's that this press is really focused on supporting foster parents. The vote we're going to do today is, above all, to appreciate foster parents and return the injustice that has happened, and that's the difference in the view that it's not a legislative technical thing for foster parents. There, by amending the law, we removed it directly from this possibility of this system. So we're returning them here in this, I think it's important. And again, I'm going back to the fact that the bill, the government bill, is going to be dealing with this thing that you brought into the debate with the amendment. I think, even last year's experience has shown that making these things by amending proposals is terribly unfortunate. Since we are entering the system's long-term solutions within the pension system, then it should really be things that are discussed with other departments, it is not just the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as mentioned here. It is, for example, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance and so on. So please, nicely, let's really do these things systemically based on really well-developed proposals, because the steps that have shown up in the past here, the amendments, are not the lucky way to a good goal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u64	Now, although there is an interest in a factual point, I will point out to the honourable Member that we are already outside the debate, so that the factual one is not allowed. It is now with Mrs Schillerová's priority right before the rapporteur's speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, you're absolutely right, but apparently they don't always pay. We were here yesterday at second reading, as I recall, the Civil Service Act. This is a law that will involve some million civil servants and others, of course, who are under the Labour Code, and another large number of people that you will recruit there. I don't want to open this debate right now, which is what we discussed here yesterday, that's the parliamentary proposal. This is exactly where I was talking about last night. Why didn't it go through the proper process? Why didn't all the degrees, the Government Legislative Council, where would it be necessary? It's not a slight change, it's a big hit. You know I said here yesterday that I'm afraid of politicizing the state administration. So it just doesn't seem to apply to this government and this government coalition always. This is just a partial change. Yes, it would certainly be better if it went through a proper legislative process, it was loaded here and approved by the former House during the last parliamentary term. Again, you voted in favour. I asked you to do one thing. I didn't care if you said it in the closing speech or in the debate. Of course, it would be better in the debate, but I'm gonna put that aside now. I asked you to tell the parameters. You know that if you introduce employers' participation, it won't concern me - I look, I don't want to touch anyone, but I'm looking roughly at the generation of the kind of paramedics I see there, you're at my best age, so of course I meant it - but it won't concern them anymore, this system. [[at the gallery for guests]] You know that. This means that I wanted you to say what parameters you have proposed as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for this group of paramedics with effect from 1 January 2023. And we didn't know that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u66	I am now asking whether the rapporteur of this press is also interested in the final word. No, so we will proceed to the vote. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I would remind you that there has been a proposal from Mr Brázdil, who, according to § 95 para. 2 suggests that we return this press to second reading. So it is a proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. I shall therefore begin the vote on this proposal. I ask who is to return to second reading, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 21 registered 151 present, for 65, against 46. The motion was denied. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, during the third reading, there was also a proposal to amend the voting procedure proposed by the Guarantee Committee to vote first on Mr Mašek's proposal and then on Mr Brázdil's proposal. I think we should decide that first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u68	I will therefore ask you to say these proposals not only according to the Members, but under what letter we will find them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u69	Sure. The Guarantee Committee has been proposed to vote on Mr Brázdil's proposal A1 first. Mr Mašek's A2 vote was to follow. Thirdly, Mr Navrátil was to vote for Mr B. Fourth vote, item C of Mrs Šafránková. Fifthly, a vote on the bill as a whole was proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u70	rapporteur, I will also clarify whether the proposals for an adjustment under Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented in the third reading were read as anticipated. I have a remark here from the previous President that I have. So they did. In that case, proposals for amendment are to be put to the vote in accordance with this section of the law and then the order that you have mentioned. I won't repeat it again. The change is that we would vote not first on A1, but on proposal A2. So that's the change. So that's the alternative draft procedure we're going to vote on. I'll just make sure everyone knows what change we're voting for. We are voting to change the procedure compared to what was originally proposed by the guarantee committee. I said, who's in favor of changing the procedure? Who's against it? In vote number 22 registered 151 present, for 149, against none. The proposal for this change of procedure was accepted. Therefore, we will follow the approved procedure. I will ask the rapporteur again to tell us what we will now vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u71	We will therefore now vote on Mr Mašek's proposal for an adjustment to the irreconcilability and confusion of the legislation on pension insurance, which is extended further by members not only of the integrated rescue system, but also of the intervention units of the Police of the Czech Republic and operators of the Police Operations Centre.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u72	That is, Amendment A2. I checked you out first. I'd like you to rejoin your I.D. cards. [[Mr Mašek is applying for the floor.]] Mr. Mašek has a technical problem with registration, or...? No, with the proposed procedure. It contradicts how it was presented. I also believe that we should vote in paragraph 1, the proposals for amendments under Section 95 para. Two that I don't know if you lectured, Mr. Mašek, or you, Mr. Brázdil. [[The rapporteur shall consult outside the microphone with the legislative officer.]] But it's getting clearer here. So, first of all, we would vote not on Amendment A2, but I will ask the rapporteur to clarify what we would vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u73	I will just ask and apologise to the entire Chamber of Deputies that further proposed the so-called legislative technical regulation from both Mr Brázdil and Mr Mašek. This is to make it effective from 1. 1. 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u74	Is it okay like this, both the submitters? Visually, he agrees, but Mr Mašek has an objection, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u75	It's not an objection, but it's a clarification. My amendment concerns the essential components of the IRS, or it is 953. Colleagues Brázdila, 951, concerns mountain services and rescue services. So that's the difference. You said it in the title a little bit tangled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u76	Yes, it is therefore two proposals and two votes. I agree with that. Therefore, first, Mr rapporteur, would we vote on the proposal made by Mr Mašek?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u77	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u78	So that means knowing what we're voting on, I'm going to ask you again, because I think it's quite confusing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u79	But first, we have to vote for the legislative technical regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u80	Yes, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about. This is therefore a shift of efficiency to 1. 1. 2023 and for the IRS in particular. We all know what we're voting on, I firmly believe. That is why I am opening the vote on this legislative technical regulation. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 23, 148 were registered, for 65, against 1. The motion was denied. We should now vote on the amendment to the legislative technical amendment tabled by Mr Brázdil. I ask you to clarify what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u81	Once again, of course, it's about the validity from 1. 1. 2023. [[The President: Efficiency.]] Efficiency. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u82	Effectiveness. We all know what we are voting on, and the petitioner agrees that this is how it was said. So I'm taking the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 24 registered 149 present, for 65, against 1. The motion was denied. So now we are getting to the amendments under the approved procedure, and what is this, please, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u83	We will therefore now vote on the amendments previously included under the A2. First, Mr Mašek, whom we included first, and we decided on this. We will therefore vote on his proposal as it has been tabled. About him having the wider one, he's got the other files on the rescue system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u84	Yes, I am opening the vote on the proposal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Once again, I declare this vote misguided, and I will ask for opinions again. So one more time. First, the rapporteur. [[The opinion of the Committee was not recommended.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] So now I am opening the vote on this amendment. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 26, 149 Members and Members voted in favour of 65, against 49. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u85	And now we are taking the vote on Mr Brázdil's proposal, which is narrowed down, and it really concerns only the rescue workers themselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u86	Excuse me? [[Rapporteur: The Committee's opinion in this proposal has not delivered any opinion.]] Mr. Speaker - Opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote 27, 149 Members and Members, for 65, against 3. The motion was denied. [[ANO Members are banging loudly into the benches.]] I'm gonna ask for peace. I'm asking for peace, and we can move on to the next proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u87	Furthermore, Madam President, we will vote on proposal B, i.e. Mr Jiří Navrátil, with an amendment. It does not interfere with the submitted press, it merely changes its period and date of application of the draft law on the first day of the calendar month following its publication. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u88	Mr. Secretary? [[Affirmative opinion.]] Thank you. To the vote, Mr. Ambassador? Mr. Hrnčíř, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u89	Thank you. I'm so sorry, I wanted to vote in favour in the previous vote, I'm on drugs, I'm holding back, and I'm not questioning the vote. Just for the stew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u90	Thank you. So we are going back to the vote, and this has been said about Amendment B. So I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 28, 148 Members and Members are registered, for 146, against 2. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u91	The last proposal is proposal C, that is, Mrs Lucie Šafránková. It is an extension of the scope of the replacement periods of insurance of unmediated foster parents, in order to cover all non-mediated, i.e. related foster parents and all others, who - not only those who took over the child before 1 January 2022 when the last amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection entered into force.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u92	Excuse me? [[Rapporteur: Opinion of the Committee not recommending.]] And the Minister? [[Disagreeable.]] It was disagreeable. I am opening the vote on this amendment. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 29, 149 Members and Members, for 16, against 73. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u93	And now we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-001-008.u94	Yes. I therefore begin voting on the bill as a whole and ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 30, 149 Members and Members were registered, for 147, against none. And we agreed to the bill. I should still read the motion for a resolution. I apologize for not saying so before the vote: "The Chamber of Deputies is speaking with the Government Bill amending Act 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House Press 237, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, consent." The proposal has therefore been adopted, and I am done discussing this point. Now let me load an apology. Today, from 14:00 to the end of the working day, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes. And I'm opening up the item number
