ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 37th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with I.D. cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as they were said at the 39th meeting, or if you have a replacement card, I'll ask you to come and tell me. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 67 Members, and the invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 9 September of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Milada Voborská and a Member of Oldřich Černý. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see the proposition. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the approval of these two verifiers? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 1, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 135, against none. We have thus identified and approved the meeting verifiers. Mrs Jana Pastuchová also votes with a replacement card number 40. I am now registering several applications with priority rights and Mr Jan Jakob has been the first to sign up with priority rights. Mr Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and Mrs Alena Schillerová will then be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u2	Thank you. An agreement has been reached between the management of all the members of the MPs that an ANO representative and an SPD representative will be present on the agenda for this meeting. At the next meeting, similarly with the fact that Minister Jurečka will comment on the matter, I am withdrawing my application and ending my speech. I respect that deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. And now... [[Member Radim Fiala wants to get off.]] I would like to give you my word, but in front of you is President Tomio Okamura, then President Alena Schillerová. That means there's no room for a factual remark. Would you like to announce an agreement to change priority rights? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u4	Thanks for the word, I really can't hold up. I just wanted to assure Chairman Jakob that we are holding our word, and I'm withdrawing my application from the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr President. And now, in the order of priority rights. By mutual agreement, he will be the first President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers. We have initiated this extraordinary meeting called Social Impacts of the Crisis on the citizens of the Czech Republic, together with both opposition clubs, because we are on a daily basis - and I have already discussed it at the previous meeting - on a daily basis either with written or with the oral speeches of our citizens at meetings, at meetings, in correspondence on social networks with what situation they find themselves in. And at this point, we all know that summer's over. We're already convinced by the weather outside the windows. And I dare say that for most, for the absolute majority of Czech citizens of Czech households it was summer, one could call this summer the poor. Most Czech households have experienced something that they have not known for years and years and that some household members have never experienced at all, and that is the fear for financial stability, which has become one of the most discussed problems of today's day. We have felt the problem of rising consumer prices since the end of last year. Many of you must remember the relatively dynamic rise in electricity prices, the gas that had to be dealt with by the previous government, which I was a member of. You may remember, it was not so long ago that in November and December, based on the authority of our government, I forgave VAT on energy. And in this period, especially during the election period, you used a shortcut very often before the parliamentary elections, I think, the representatives of the five-wheeler, the current Prime Minister, that it was the so-called Babišův's expensive, and with this media shortcut, you also went to the elections. But with the departure of Andrej Babiš from Strakov Academy, there was no miraculous reduction in this Babišův's expensive or inflation, as you called it, or expensive, if you will, and did not even stop it, so even this pre-election marketing password did not come true. Logically, you couldn't even fulfill it, because the price increase that we're constantly watching on the shelves, in food stores, in gas stations, in electricity and gas bills, didn't seem to matter that the alleged evil Babišův government no longer resides in Straka Academy, so prices continued to grow happily. And they are growing, unfortunately - and I say this with considerable sadness in their voice - they are growing happily until today, when this Monday the Czech Statistical Office presented inflation rates for August, which reached 17.2 percent. The prices rose by 0.4 percent in the month-on-month, to which many academic economists responded with a joyful cry in which one might get the impression that the problem will soon be resolved. Yes, it is quite objective truth that month-on-month inflation has risen by the lowest value for this calendar year in August, but this does not address the problems of Czech citizens. This positive macroeconomic trend will certainly be difficult to explain to single mothers, families with children, pensioners, low-income population groups or groups who have had difficulty financing their costs already in these summer months. We will find it very difficult to explain to these households, who are very often on the verge of their financial options, that they should stop stressing because prices are still rising, but not as fast as before. [[17.10 hours]] Dear colleagues, especially the five-wheeler, please step out of this bubble around the Chamber of Deputies and come out more among the people. I was only in Břeclav this week, I was at a meeting with citizens in Brno-Kohoutovice, Brno-Komina, and I regularly go to the Czech Republic. Annual growth in natural gas prices by more than 60 per cent, electricity by 35 per cent, heat, hot water by more than 20 per cent, solid fuels by 46 per cent and food, where flour prices rise by 64 per cent year, milk by 49 per cent, oils, fats by 50 per cent, poultry meat by 34 per cent, food services by 25 per cent and so on, so our households will definitely feel drastic. This extraordinary increase has been felt by almost all the social classes in our country, listen to them. Talk to them about it. And as I said, the Czech Republic is not alone in the problem of consumer price growth, dynamic price growth is a problem for the whole developed world. Unfortunately, thanks to the inactivity of the current five koalice, however, the Czech Republic is completely out of line with the average EU countries, because the rate of increase in consumer prices is at a completely different level in our country. Just for comparison, according to Eurostat preliminary data, the annual change in consumer prices of 27 EU Member States in July was around 9.8% and in our country, I was telling you now, 17.2 for August, 17.5 for July. This means that it is quite obvious today - we talked about this all day today when we discuss the energy law - that the five-calice has slept through this situation and that the help that is being given to our people is insufficient, even for a number of our citizens is equal to one great zero so far, still one great zero. At present, the only happiness of Czech households is the lowest unemployment rate from all EU countries, which we still have and thanks to which most of our citizens have guaranteed regular monthly income. When I hear the call of government policy today, government politicians exporting themselves to the aid that our government has provided to citizens and companies in an unprecedented health crisis, I really must pause over it. It is terrible to think that today we should have the highest - the fourth highest - inflation rate in the EU in the Baltic countries and, as a result of the failure to provide assistance in the health crisis, we should also have a high number of closed businesses, and thus, on top of all that, high unemployment figures. I hope you realize that the program such as Antivirus, compensation bonus, but a number of subsidy programs from the MIT workshop led by Karel Havlíček just prevented it. That's what I hear about in those squares. I also hear the words "thank you" from a large number of entrepreneurs who thank you for this help. That's not what you were talking about, that's when you called, how inadequate it is that it should be higher - I remember, Mr. Vice Prime Minister is no longer here, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, as he constantly challenged me here, let me explain to businessmen that we give them little. I'm sure we could have done a whole lot better, but I stand by the fact that we have not slept and that we have helped, and so we have also contributed to saving unemployment, that employment has remained high with us, the highest in the European Union, and thus the lowest unemployment. Czech households are really poor, these are hard data that are based either on the Czech Statistical Office or on various surveys. For the third quarter of 2022, the decline in real income is predicted to be almost 10 percent. Overall, the real wage is expected to fall by 7,6 % in 2022 and also in 2023 it is predicted to decline. Today, people live primarily on savings - the happier ones who created them, with our policy and ours able to increase household savings as a percentage of disposable income to a limit of 21 percent. Today, a few months after the coalition's reign, we are at 12 percent of household income available. Even the very mood of consumers is getting significantly worse. Consumer confidence is at ten years minimum. Then, no wonder thousands of desperate people would fill Wenceslas Square, and it was a huge disappointment to me when the prime minister of this country called them pro-Russian fanatics. I did not agree with a number of speeches by those who organized this meeting, who performed with opinions that I would never sign and never identify with, but those people under the stage came there because they were afraid for their existence. The absolute inactionability of this government has been reflected in the decline in the trust of citizens and companies in the capacity of this government, so I can continue. I call on you once again, walk among the people - and please, we are trying to make proposals as constructive opposition. The next meeting following this meeting has three concrete parliamentary proposals, which will be presented by the Vice-President of Aleš Juchelka, our shadow Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on my behalf. Come talk about them, come support them. Stop sending signals and don't make excuses for money. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] Now you're able to take 130 billion of the energy bill out of taxpayers' pockets, and you're able to send energy distributors in this way instead of putting a price on producers in time. Let's deal with the social problems of the citizens of this country before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u7	I thank you, too, and now the President of Tomio Okamura is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this extraordinary meeting convened by the opposition is the social impact of the crisis on the citizens of the Czech Republic. Yes, the situation we are in is a crisis, a crisis very serious, which has the potential to disrupt the long-term social stability of our society, its cohesion and social reconciliation. The origin of this situation is clear, it is the government of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, the government of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates. In the field of social policy, the five-police government, as in other areas, is clearly incompetent, inadequate and very damaging to Czech citizens, especially the most vulnerable and invulnerable. It started right at the beginning of this government's operation when several significant cuts took place in the labour and social affairs department as part of its draft budget for this year. It was, for example, a reduction in the amount of funds for the care allowance for the disabled by CZK 1 billion, the withdrawal of CZK 700 million for the replacement maintenance for the single parent or CZK 1.5 billion for the fare discounts for students and pensioners. The SPD, of course, does not agree with this political government. So, immediately after its accession, this Fialův government made clear with its budgetary priorities its antisocial character and contemptuous lack of interest in the fate and lives of socially weaker groups of the population. She took the money from the weakest, the ones who can't defend themselves. The government also refused to address the issue of widespread abuse of social benefits, where we came up as SPD with a high-quality and comprehensive bill proposal, which would also be a small source of public revenue, where the calculations talk about at least CZK 1 billion per year for the state budget if we ended the abuse of social benefits inadaptable. The government has rejected this proposal. Despite repeated promises to date, the government has not submitted draft laws to increase the contribution to care for those dependent on helping others in home care, where the present amount of these contributions is absolutely not enough for a dignified life and the acquisition of basic assistance services, especially after their upheaval this year. Likewise, the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have not yet submitted a proposal to increase the incredibly low mobility allowance for the disabled. The SPD, of course, has already drafted both of these proposals long ago, filed in the House and has been waiting here for months in the House for discussion, but the Fialův government coalition is blocking. [[17.20 hours]] A separate chapter is the only concrete act of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, i.e. a 5,000-dollar contribution for a selected group of children and their families, whose development took an immensely long time, his administration and payout are very difficult and most families who have the right to receive it may not receive it until autumn, although the government promised them that this would happen at the beginning of the school year. Regardless of the fact that the very setting of this contribution was very discriminatory, many children from the Ministry and the government have for no reason and arrogantly excluded it, and our Member Lucie Šafránková's proposals to remedy these discriminations were, of course, rejected by government MPs. Of course, this 5,000-dollar SPD contribution supported, because it was better to have something than nothing. At the end of this government's almost annual very sad balance, there is a package of measures to mitigate the impact of energy poverty, which is the working material of the government's advisory body of the National Economic Council of the Government from last month. In the vast majority of all outputs, this material is consistent with what the SPD movement has been saying in the long term in the field of tax, social and family policy, what we have in the political and electoral programme and what we have already tabled in the form of concrete proposals to amend the relevant laws. The point is, in particular, that we want to increase the enormously low and outdated standardizations for the housing allowance, especially for the few and senior households, we want to valorise the amount of child allowances, whose real value is no longer in line with the 2008 level, and we want to support low-income seniors receiving pensions, where extraordinary valorisation does not increase the basic pension ratio, and therefore helping more high-income pensioners and are extremely unfair to the low-income ones. Furthermore, the Government's National Economic Council calls for a stronger tax advantage for workers with the lowest incomes, which is all fully in line with the SPD, but the government refuses to do so. The aim of these measures, which we are proposing and proposed by the National Economic Council of the Government, is to make the most of the instruments of tax and batch policy already in place, to focus on the most vulnerable population groups and to reduce their budgetary impacts and inflationary effects. Literally unsustainable is the situation of single parents. At least half of them are at risk of falling into poverty and are thus unacceptable threats to the standard of living, quality of life, development and quality of life of tens of thousands of children. There is not a single day to wait, but the government is still waiting, and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is responsible Marian Jurečka for KDU-ČSL, who does nothing at all. In the case of single-living seniors, income poverty has even increased by 40 percentage points since November 2021. Furthermore, research shows that 43 percent of the people living alone are living in income poverty. It's about half of the singles. According to research, the income poor are each sixth Czech household. Another 16 percent of Czech households have low incomes and savings that last up to one month. That's what we're doing in a third of our homes, and Petr Fiala's government is acting like they can't hear or see. Each society's growth is recognized by how it can take care of its most defenseless and endangered people. Measured by this indicator, the government of Petr Fiala is failing on the whole line. The social situation hasn't really been this bad since November 1989. It's a tragedy, and no excuses for the Fialův government to supply us will stand. Guilt and responsibility are fully on the part of the current government, which has all the necessary information and resources and has at its disposal recommendations from experts and proposals from the opposition, but has been refusing, not communicating for almost a year, and is not making matters worse. The SPD movement here in the House has made all possible proposals to improve the social situation of working citizens, students, families with children, singles, disabled people and seniors. But the government of Petr Fiala rejects all the proposals without making any proposal for improvement, and that is the reason for our extraordinary meeting, which you will be rejecting here in no time. And once again, I would like to call on the citizens to come to the elections next week and make it a referendum on the satisfaction of the Fialův Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-16-ps2021-037-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Since no one else is reporting, we will now vote on the 37th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We will now vote on the full proposal for a 37 meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm registering your application for check-out, I'm checking you out, I'm asking you to re-engage. I am opening the vote and I am asking - well, there is an objection, so I will end the vote (number 2), I declare it confusing. We're all in the room now. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the agenda as I read it? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 3, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 69, against 74. There was no agreement with the proposal for a programme. I'm ending this meeting. I'm now declaring a five-minute recess. At 5:30, we'll continue with another special meeting. Thank you.
