ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 15th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, and whoever requests to issue a replacement card to notify me so far has not happened from anyone. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 9 March of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask you to keep your voice down so that we can begin our first vote, which is the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Pavel Žáček. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? Verifiers Zdeněk Kettner and Pavel Žáček, Mr Kettner is not here, but he probably agreed. No one's suggesting anyone else. So I'm going to ask you to vote. Initiating vote on the designation of verifiers of this meeting. I'm asking, who's in or out? In voting number 1, 114 Members and Members were registered, for 111, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Pavel Žáček, as verifiers of the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that before the opening of the meeting they have asked to apologise for their failure to take part in the negotiations of these Members: Bauer Jan - working grounds, Bělica Josef - family reasons, Bělor Roman - family reasons, Bernard Josef - working reasons, Brázdil Milan - no reason given, Bureš Jan - working reasons, Carbol Jiří - working reasons, Dostálová Klára - health reasons, Dražilová Lenka from 10.30 for working reasons, Dufek Aleš - working reasons, Feranec Milan - health reasons, Fifka Petr - personal reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav - health reasons, Hájek Jiří - kolovratník Martin, Horák Jiří from 11.00 to 13.30 for working reasons, Hrnčíř Jan - foreign trip, Jáč Ivan for working reasons, Janulík Miloslav - working grounds, Kosalík David - health reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš - personal reasons, from 11.00 to 13.30 for working reasons, for working reasons, kolář Ondřej - working Josef, Czech Republic - working Kott, Czech Republic - working reasons, Czech Republic - working reasons, is only 10 hours. král Václav - health reasons, Krutáková Jana - family reasons, Lisová Martina - health reasons, Mádlův Ivana - health reasons, Taťána Tatána - family reasons, Munzar Vojtěch from 12 o'clock for work reasons, Navrátil Jiří - working reasons, Okleštěk Ladislav - health reasons, Olšáková Eliška from 10.45 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Oulehlová Renata - working reasons, Philipp Tom until 11 o'clock for work reasons, Richter Jan - working reasons, Skopeček Jan - personal reasons, Staněk Pavel - health reasons, Špičák Julius - family reasons, Teleky Róbert - working reasons, Tureček Karel - foreign travel, Vích Radovan - medical reasons, Volný Jan - health reasons, Vomáčka Vít - working reasons, Vondrák Ivo - health reasons, Vrána Petr - working reasons. Members of the government who are excused: Fiala Petr - foreign trip, Bek Mikuláš - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal from 12 o'clock for working reasons. Furthermore, Minister Nekula apologizes for working reasons, Minister Kupka - working reasons. Mr Miroslav Zborovský for family reasons and Mr Michal Kučera for work reasons. So much for apologies. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 March, by my decision number 18 on the basis of the Government, I declared a legislative emergency until 8 April this year. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is a government bill on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 170; Government bill on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 171; Government bill on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 172. By decision number 19, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short session and ordered the House Press 170 to the Security Committee, the House Press 171 to the Social Policy Committee, the House Press 172 to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports to discuss and set them an unbreakable deadline for submitting a resolution by Friday 11 March of this year by 8.30 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, we have a situation of legislative emergency before discussing the proposals, and if the emergency persists, we have to comment on this. That is why I am now opening up a debate on this. I don't see any logged in. Therefore, if no one signs up for debate, I will end the debate and bring forward the motion for a resolution on which we will vote: "The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of a legislative emergency." I've summoned a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. Let's wait a little longer if they come. They're not coming, so I guess we're all here. That is why I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution, and I am asking who is in favour, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 136 Members and Members were registered, for 134, against none. The motion has been voted out, accepted. And so we will now proceed to the draft agenda of the 15th meeting, as stated on the invitation. I don't have anyone on the agenda. I remind you, it's possible to log in, but no one checks in. Therefore, we will vote on the whole proposal for the 15th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote on the agenda, and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 3, 137 Members and Members were registered, 136, against none. The motion was accepted, we approved the agenda. [[9.10 hours]] I just want you to have this information for organizational reasons, given that we are acting in a legislative emergency, so this time we will treat these prints by discussing the second reading gradually for all three prints, then there will be a break on the processing of amendments and then we will open the third reading for all three prints, so that you know this information in advance. This procedure will therefore be followed by management meetings today.
