ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u1	13. Government bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services / House printing 160/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. I hereby ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u2	Hello. Mr President, honourable Members, the Ministry of Regional Development, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, has prepared a law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services, which I now present to you under the authority of the Government. The aim of this proposed bill is to properly transpose Directive 2019/1161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, which was substantially amended by the previous directive on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles which have regulated the area. She was supposed to enter into force on 2 August last year at the latest, which was not possible because the draft law, which was passed to the Chamber of Deputies in January last year, failed to discuss the Chamber of Deputies in its previous term. For this reason, proceedings against the Czech Republic are now being brought against the Czech Republic for breach of the obligation to notify this transposition legislation, and it is therefore necessary that the legislative process, which will lead to the approval of this implementing legislation, should take place. The current Directive 2009/36, on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles, left the choice of ways to take account of the energy and environmental impacts of the traffic of vehicles purchased on individual Member States. The transposition of this Directive is currently carried out in Government Decree No. 173/2016 Coll., on the establishment of procurement conditions for public procurement for the purchase of road vehicles. Contracting authorities must thus already take into account the energy and environmental impacts of the operation of these vehicles, in accordance with this legislation, when purchasing, for example, road vehicles for public transport, for example, by requiring minimum emission limits or the maximum fuel consumption to be reduced. However, the amendment to Directive 2009/33 brings a fundamental change and tightening of the requirements in relation to the procurement of road vehicles. Contracting authorities and public passenger transport service providers will be obliged to reach a fixed proportion of low-emission and zero-emission vehicles in the future during the reference periods. That share is set for the total proportion of vehicles purchased. The minimum shares of low-emission vehicles and zero-emission vehicles will have to be reached in two separate time periods, from the entry into force of this Act until 31 December 2025 and from 1 January 2026 until 31 December 2030, by providing public procurement contracts for the procurement of road vehicles of category M1, M2, namely passenger vehicles - let's assume electric vehicles and others, M1 class and A, i.e. certain buses, N1 - these are light commercial vehicles, N2, N3 - freight vehicles and vehicles intended for use on the trolleybus track, i.e. trolleybuses, in the award of public contracts for certain services provided through these vehicles, such as road transport services or irregular passenger transport, waste collection, parcel transport, etc., thirdly in the procurement of public passenger transport services under the Law on public passenger transport services and amending other laws, i.e. for transport service contracts provided by buses. However, the Law also provides for exceptions, all which could be provided for in accordance with the Directive. I shall indicate, for example, that does not apply to vehicles used, constructed, manufactured or modified for use by the Ministry of the Interior for the purpose of maintaining public order, components of an integrated rescue system, security forces or municipal police - but this must be technically adapted for this purpose - further vehicles constructed, manufactured or modified for use as state material reserves, vehicles constructed, manufactured or modified for use only by armed forces, military police, military intelligence, then armored vehicles, ambulance cars, funeral cars, vehicles permitted for wheelchairs, auto cranes and others. The minimum shares of low-emission vehicles will therefore be as follows: for passenger and light-duty vehicles, this should be 29 per cent in each of the specified periods, which are the years - January 2006 and December 2030, for freight vehicles 9 per cent in the first period and 11 per cent in the second period, for buses and trolleybuses 41 per cent in the first period and 60 per cent in the second period. Half of these minimum shares for buses and trolleybuses will be achieved through zero-emission vehicles, i.e. electric cars or electric buses, or hydrogen. The important thing is that the shares will not have to be respected in each contract, the essential share of low-emission vehicles will be in the overall summary of road vehicles issued by one contracting authority, which will only respond to the current situation, which is uncertain about gas and fuels. This does not mean that from tomorrow or, respectively, within a short period of time, even a year or two, we have to fill this quota, but it is the total volume in a given period. Not only are the minimum shares of low-emission vehicles strict, but the definition of the low-emission vehicle is now established. For passenger and light commercial vehicles, the definition is created by means of maximum exhaust emissions in CO2 and emissions of pollutants in real-time operation. For heavy commercial vehicles, it is created through specified alternative fuels. In the case of passenger and light commercial vehicles, only electric and hydrogen powered vehicles can be considered as low-emission vehicles, as well as some types of plug-in hybrids and others by 2025. Therefore, the definition of low-emission vehicle does not subsequently comply, for example, with CNG vehicles in this vehicle category. I can assure you that in negotiations on the legislative proposal for a directive, the Czech Republic has requested both the reduction of the mandatory shares of low-emission vehicles and the extension of the definition of low-emission vehicles and light-duty vehicles to other alternative fuels. However, the request was not taken into account in the negotiations and the proposal was eventually adopted without change in spite of the opposition of the Czech Republic and several other Member States to the neighbouring countries which have already implemented this legislation. [[12.50 hours]] In the case of the proposed bill it is a minimum net transposition, I have already mentioned this. We were trying to achieve a minimalist option. The obligations are therefore not extended against the directive in any way and all the exceptions that were possible which the directive allows are also fully taken into account. I have often been asked whether this implementation plan will have it and will also have it partially compensated from European sources, and the carriers providing public passenger transport services will be able to apply for a subsidy for the purchase of electric buses or buses using hydrogen or biomass. In the relevant period 2021 to 2027, the provision of subsidies is planned through an integrated regional operational programme managed by the Ministry of Regional Development. The aid should subsequently also be granted to carriers providing public passenger transport services for the purchase of battery partial trolleybuses. This support will be in units of billions of crowns. Financial support for the purchase of electric cars, hydrogen-powered vehicles and charging stations for electric cars for the public sector of CZK 600 million will be provided through the Ministry of Environment. After all, there is a programme in the National Recovery Plan and the allocation in the Modernization Fund. The calls for these aids will start to be announced in the middle of this year. I would also like to add that the bill was consulted with representatives of some departments, offices and authorities within the working group on the revision of the directive on vehicles of the Ministry of Regional Development before inter-ministerial commentation. The bill was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in February this year. Therefore, I am asking for the commandment of the motion for discussion in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and, together with my colleagues, I am prepared to provide any further information and additions during the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u3	Thank you, Minister, for putting the proposal forward. Now the rapporteur should take the floor for first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman, but according to my information, he is not present and there is an agreement to change the rapporteur, which Ivan Adamec should become. However, we are at first reading and we must vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, so I will ask you to approve the amendment of the rapporteur in the forthcoming vote, namely that the rapporteur would not be Ondřej Lochman, but Mr Adamec. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a change? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 125 Members voted in favour of 83. The motion was accepted. I am giving the floor directly to the rapporteur, Mr Adamc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u4	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members. I'll be brief, I won't repeat what the Minister said in his opening statement. Maybe I wouldn't have forgiven the remark here that it may be a good thing that the last House didn't discuss the bill because the situation in the pre-war period in Ukraine was completely different in terms of fuel prices, energy prices than it currently is. I think we're going to have to talk about how to proceed with this, because it was said here from the Minister's mouth that there will be subsidies from the European Union for investments, for purchases and the like, but the "but" then from the point of view of operating costs and from the point of view of whether we will actually have fuel for buses and all means of transport, so I think it really deserves a big discussion. I would like to propose to the honourable Chamber of Deputies that we extend the deadline for committee discussions by 40 days, which means 100 days, and if it does not pass, it will be 20 days. I'd like to ask you so much to extend it. I am not concerned that there would be any major sanctions from the point of view of notification, because, as far as I am aware, if the House decides to discuss this implementation, there is no more danger from the European Commission. It's really worth it. A lot of things have fallen in terms of restoring our fleet. It's interesting information. I could talk here for hours about the difficulties that await us with this implementation, with the introduction of cars or means of transport on an emissary cleaner fuel than current diesel or petrol. It's really not easy, 40 percent of buying into a transport company that's going to be on low-emission engines - you can't imagine what it's going to do to this state's economy. I really appeal to you to finally support this directive, but to find some other solutions, if necessary, because the war in Ukraine has changed completely price policy and energy availability, and I think that it is still in the same spirit as it was set before this unpleasant and really bad situation in Ukraine, so I think that is not the way. I would not like us to commit ourselves here to something that we will do very hard and then look for ways to convince the European Commission that there is a need for a different approach. I think that time needs to be used, so I ask you to support my proposal to extend the deadline for 40 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, but I will nevertheless ask you that the proposal to extend the time limits also be heard in the general debate. This was the opening word of the rapporteur, so I'm just going to ask you to repeat it afterwards. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Adamec is the first to enter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u6	Thank you for the call, Mr President. I therefore propose that we extend the time for discussion, the time for committee discussions, by 40 days to 100 days. If the honourable House were to conclude that it was too much that she didn't want to deal with it for so long, it would be 20 days for 80 days. I would ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u7	Thank you, too. Next in the general debate is Mr Petr Vrána. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to highlight some important aspects of the amendment to the Act on the promotion of low-emission vehicles. The proposed draft law establishes the relevant European Union law and regulates the minimum share of low-emission vehicles in the award of public procurement contracts under the Law on public passenger transport services. The main principle of the bill to implement the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe is to lay down requirements for the achievement of designated minimum shares of so-called zero-emission clean vehicles and vehicles in the award of public contracts and the procurement of public passenger transport services. These shares will have to be reached in the specified time periods from the entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2025 and from 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2030 in the award of procurement contracts in the draft law of defined vehicles and in the award of public procurement contracts for the provision of specified services, public passenger transport services, pursuant to Act No. 194/2020 Coll., on public passenger transport services and on the amendment of other laws. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The petitioner finds no alternative here other than the adoption of a special implementation law. Since the obligation arising from the amendment to the Clean Vehicles Directive will be laid down by contracting authorities and contracting entities entering a sector contract in relation to a specified period of time and not in relation to the method of award of each individual contract, as is the case under the current version of the Clean Vehicles Directive, the authorisation to issue a government regulation contained in the Public Procurement Act cannot be used. Contracting authorities will be given new obligations which, in the opinion of the petitioner, can only be imposed by law. [[13.00 hours]] Nor does the petitioner find any unsystematic inclusion of new transposition legislation in the Public Procurement Act, since it is a procedural standard and is intended to contain general rules on public procurement. It should therefore not contain an adjustment...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but it's 13 o'clock and I have to interrupt you. Of course, when we start discussing this point further, you will be given the floor. It's 13 o'clock and I'm interrupting item 13. I'm just warning you, there'll be oral questioning at 2:30. For the members of the Organizing Committee, I remind you that the Organising Committee will meet five minutes after the meeting of the morning section of today's House, i.e. in five minutes. Thank you and have a nice rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-28-ps2021-019-03-007-013.u10	Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members, the next item on the agenda for this meeting is:
