ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-009-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 61/2000 Sb., on maritime navigation, as amended / House print 70/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading and, under the authority of the government, will state the proposal - I can already see that it is here - Mr. Transport Minister Martin Kupka. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-009-005.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is submitting a bill amending Act No. 61/2000 Coll., on Maritime Navigation, as amended. The main objective of the proposed bill is to transpose the 2019 Council Directive on port facilities for the reception of ship waste, which also amends Directive 2010/65 and repeals Directive 2000/59. This is also the transposition of the 2019 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2008/106/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers and repealing Directive 2005/45 on the mutual recognition of seafarers' certificates issued by Member States. You may ask why we are coming up with this amendment of the law in this moving time, but it is really necessary given that all implementation deadlines have already been made. The amendment was also discussed in the previous period by our predecessors in the government and the proposal was also submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Now we are really in a situation where if we do not approve this law quickly, this amendment, we would be subjected to unnecessary financial sanctions. I will only try very briefly to introduce the basic parameters of the amendment. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, the obligation of the master of a maritime vessel, that is to say, a maritime merchant ship, as well as a sea yacht, is to ensure the transfer of waste on board a port reception facility located in a port of a Member State of the European Union or a State forming the European Economic Area. At the same time, exemptions from that obligation are granted in accordance with Union law. Following the requirements of Directive 2019/1159, access to the recognition of certificates and certificates of medical fitness of crew members issued by another Member State of the European Union or by a State forming the European Economic Area is first changed. While existing legislation is based on the fact that the recognition of each licence must be sought by the Ministry of Transport as a maritime authority, a special recognition act by the Maritime Authority will be required only in the case of certificates issued to a crew member at command or operational officer level, while other certificates issued by those States to crew members at auxiliary level, as well as medical certificates issued by them, will continue to be recognised ex lege, i.e. directly by law. In addition, the draft law complements the obligation of the operator of a maritime vessel to ensure that, when carrying a sea voyage, appropriate certificates of recognition of a foreign licence are carried on board. A provisional certificate of recognition is also abandoned by the former Institute. As I mentioned, the bill has already been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in its previous term of office, but this legislative draft has not been discussed. We propose to discuss the proposed bill and to give consent to it in the first reading under § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In view of the fact that the transposition periods for the above directives have already expired, the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings in relation to the two directives of Union law, and if the transposition of these directives is not completed soon, the Czech Republic is at risk of imposing financial sanctions. In view of this, it is necessary to speed up the process of negotiating the draft law in the following legislative process. Moreover, it is a completely problematic and brief legislative draft, which is a purely implementing character and which has not been called into question in the context of its discussion with the professional public or in the framework of an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. The transposition is really one in one, there is no known gold-plating, it is really strictly what our obligations of a member of the European Union impose on us. At the same time, it is legislation for which a very limited circle of their addressees is given. On the basis of all these facts and brief performances, I would like to ask you to approve the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-009-005.u3	I thank the Minister and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-009-005.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, as has already been said, this is Law No. 61/2000 Sb., on a sea cruise which should undergo a change, and a follow-up decree. The translator, the minister, has already said most of the essential things. I would just like to remind you that this is really a retrial of the law. This law has already been discussed here, but it has not passed the entire legislative process. Of course, maritime navigation is not the most important law that we would discuss here, as the rapporteur did when I dealt with the individual parts, so it can be seen that it is primarily aimed at regulating the law in terms of safety, from the point of view of waste management, from the point of view of medical equipment on the vessel. I don't find other things that would really be important for us to read here. I agree with what my previous speaker said, and I would ask you to support this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-009-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open this general debate. I see no one's logged in, so I ask you once again if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate? If not, this concludes the general debate. [[12.20 hours]] And now we will decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal, and I would like to congratulate myself because we will be voting shortly. I see there's an interest in the check-out, now I've checked everyone out, I'll ask you all to come forward again, thank you. In the meantime, I would like to read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 70, so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Ending the vote. I'm stating that 136 were logged in for 135, against no one. The result of the vote - was adopted. And it was the number 125 vote. The motion for a resolution has been approved. For this reason, I would therefore like to start a detailed debate. I look, no one is enrolled in a detailed debate. So I ask if anyone wants to speak in a detailed debate: this is not the case. Then I conclude with this detailed debate. And since we have completed the detailed debate, we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I'll take the liberty of rejoining, but I can see that most of them are already here. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 61/2000 Sb., on maritime navigation, as amended by House press 70, as amended." I would like to begin the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote was closed. I note that the number 126 vote was 141, for it was 138, against 0. Result: accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of the discussion. I thank the rapporteur and thank the rapporteur. So I'm ending this one more time. Let me start another point, and that is the discussion.
