ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'm going to ask you to re-engage with your ID cards so that we can record your participation and, if necessary, those who request a replacement card to give me her number. Mrs Jílková votes with replacement card number 24. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 73 Members. The invitation was sent to you today, Thursday, February 24, by e-mail. I would now like to proceed with the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see any logged in with another proposal. That is why I am opening the vote on the verifiers of the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Or who's against it? In voting number 1, 152 Members and Members were enrolled, 152 were also in favour, so I note that the verifiers of the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Hayat Okamura. At the same time, I say that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Balaštíková Margita - health reasons, Bělica Josef - work reasons, Berki Jan - work reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav - foreign trip, Dražilová Lenka - health reasons, Dufek Aleš - health reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav - health reasons, Flek Josef - foreign trip, Hanzlíková Jana - health reasons, Helebrant Tomáš - foreign trip, Janulík Miloslav - working reasons, Levko Jarmila - working grounds, Oborná Monika from 16 to 17 hours for health reasons, Oulíková Renata for work reasons, Potůčková Lucie for work reasons, Rais Karel - working reasons, RatiborskRatiborský Michal - working grounds, Šimek David - foreign trip, Tureček Karel - foreign trip, Zajíčková Renáta - working grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the liberty of sitting at today's meeting, given that this is an absolutely extraordinary situation, of the extraordinary fact that we are meeting about, because I remind you that the point which was on the invitation and asked for by Members is the position of the Chamber of Deputies on Russian aggression against Ukraine, I have also taken the liberty of inviting the ambassador of Ukraine to today's meeting in the Czech Republic. I therefore ask that we now vote that we agree to the participation of the Ambassador of Ukraine in the Czech Republic, Mr Jevhen Perebyjnis, at this meeting. Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 2, 159 Members and Members were enrolled, for 158, 1 abstained. This proposal was adopted. Allow me, then, to welcome the Ambassador among us. [[Members have risen, applause is ringing throughout the hall, the national anthem of Ukraine is ringing.]] After the Ukrainian anthem came out, I would ask for the first performance of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, honourable Ambassador, honourable Members, when I came before you two days ago and informed you of the steps the Czech Government is taking in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, I said that Europe is a step away from the war. Those words were difficult to speak to me, and in my mind I wished I was wrong. This morning, however, has shown that the blackest scenario we have warned many of us about has come true, and although we have not wanted this to happen, it is unfortunately a reality today. Russian Federation led by Vladimír Putin militarily attacked Ukraine, a sovereign and democratic country that decided to go its own way, outside Russia's sphere of interest. Russia has also attacked a country that is our partner, with whom we have historical ties and where many people who live here, who work here, who are our friends, come from. And we can't turn our backs on our friends. We must help our friends in difficult times, even at the cost of our own discomfort and our own losses. We well know from the past what it's like to have allies turn away from us when they decide to leave us in the interest of peace. These countries have always suffered more losses than they tried to prevent. This mistake must not be repeated by the world. We must act together, we must act decisively, we must act hard and we must act morally. [[Let's hear it.]] Tonight there will be a meeting of the European Council, which I will attend and at which, on behalf of the Czech Republic, I will promote as hard a position as I can towards the Russian Federation as an aggressor must pay the price, a price that will force him to stop the next attack. That must be our goal. That's what our steps must be toward. Our goal must be a free, safe and democratic Ukraine, as it was a few days ago, and we must do everything we can to make it happen again. [[16.10 hours]] I will not say here that the Czech Republic is not involved in this war, it would be incorrect and it would not be true. At the same time, however, I would like to reassure all my fellow citizens that, thanks to reasonable steps, including the sensible steps taken by previous governments in the past, i.e. by joining the North Atlantic Alliance, by entering the European Union, we are now safe and able to cope with this critical situation as well as economically. This morning and afternoon, the crisis crews of the various ministries and the Security Council of the State, on which we coordinated the various actions and measures, where the members of the Security Council of the State and the Government also divided their tasks so that we were prepared for any further development. We continuously evaluate the risks for individual areas of our lives, whether they are internal security, energy security or also negative impacts on the Czech economy, on Czech companies, on their employees. Ukraine, and I would like to say this, is helping the Czech Republic continuously and we are increasing this assistance in recent weeks and days, of course in response to the needs of the Ukrainian party. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been providing humanitarian and development assistance to Ukraine continuously since 2014. Last year it was about CZK 75 million. Thanks to this, we now have mapped needs and identified partners in Ukraine, and we know where to go effectively. In recent weeks, emergency humanitarian assistance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, which has so far provided traumas to the Ukrainian Red Cross for field health care, has also supported two projects of NGOs worth CZK 10 million and is preparing additional assistance, especially in the field of health care, also worth approximately CZK 10 million. As I have also mentioned several times here in Parliament, on 26 January, the government approved, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, a donation of 4 000 rounds of 152 mm caliber, which are usable cannons of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. These days we are dealing with Ukraine's way of transporting this gift to Ukraine. Today, the Security Council of the State has also decided to mobilise funds for immediate humanitarian and migration aid for the citizens of Ukraine. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will release CZK 24 million to provide assistance in particular in the east of the country in the field of health care and access to water and sanitation, the Ministry of Interior CZK 25 million to help internally displaced and refugees. Furthermore, the State Security Council submitted a proposal to the Government to mobilise CZK 250 million in total for urgent humanitarian aid to Ukraine. The Czech Republic is therefore able, depending on the possibilities of access to individual parts of Ukraine, to provide extensive material assistance from its stocks in the Gistration of the Administration of State Material Reserves and on the basis of direct purchase. It is also possible to carry out evacuation of injured civilians for treatment to the Czech Republic and other related activities under the MEDEVAC programme. We are also prepared to support the Ukrainian humanitarian fund in the form of a money donation. These are concrete steps of humanitarian aid, and I am pleased to mention them here. Given the expected increased displacement, part of the assistance will also be implemented in neighbouring countries of Ukraine, in the form of subsidies for Czech non-profit organisations, material and financial assistance to visiting countries and money donations to international organisations. Another dimension is helping refugees in neighbouring countries as well as receiving refugees in the territory of the Czech Republic, including health care and other related matters. The Ministry of the Interior has prepared careful crisis plans for possible influx of refugees from Ukraine, and I here, on behalf of the Czech Government, offer guarantees to Ukrainian citizens who are in our territory: you do not have to worry about extending visas, you do not have to worry about connection with your families, you are welcome here and you are safe here. [[Let's hear it.]] At the State Security Council, we also talked about energy supplies. I would like to assure citizens that the Czech Republic has sufficient supplies in the event of a reduction or failure in the supply of energy raw materials, and at the same time, in cooperation with the European Union, we are working to ensure possible alternative supplies of natural gas. As I have already mentioned, with the European Union, we are coordinating our actions with our partners in the North Atlantic Alliance, and we are ready to take the position that we need to take as hard sanctions as possible and take the most decisive steps to discourage Russia from other dangerous actions. However, we are also taking some steps at national level because we, as the Czech Republic, want to tell Russia, the Russian Federation, a clear 'no'. "No" aggression, "no" manipulations and lies and "no" violations of fundamental international agreements. We know what this is about, we have our experience with it, and therefore the "no" of Russian aggression sounds very strongly from the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has therefore decided to withdraw its approval to operate the Russian consulate in Karlovy Vary and Brno, while suspending the functioning of our consulates in St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg. [[Let's hear it.]] These are some of the steps that the Czech government and individual departments are taking in these hours. Of course, further action will be followed by an agreement within the European Union. I am leaving tonight, I am about to leave for an extraordinary meeting of the European Council, which will address this situation, and, of course, also on the basis of an agreement within the North Atlantic Alliance, the extraordinary summit of the North Atlantic Alliance will take place tomorrow afternoon, and I will attend it together with the President of the Republic, Miloš Zeman. But, of course, the next steps will be based not only on the agreement between the European Union and the states of the European Union and the states of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also on the demands of Ukraine, which we need to listen to in particular these days. It is clear to us that the next steps must be swift, effective, and hard. That is the only way it can work, and that is the only way we can contribute to Russia's aggression stopping. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking you for the support and constructive approach both to the opposition and to President Zeman. I am aware of our different attitudes to a number of things, different attitudes to domestic policy, but I very much appreciate that in a time of crisis, the Czech Republic can act together, constructively and speak with one voice. I also see this as a step towards the return of our - recently somewhat heated - political situation to the normal plane, even here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that, at critical moments, political disputes must stand aside, we must pull together in the interests of the security of the Czech Republic and Europe, and I am glad that this is happening and thank you for that. We're in this together, we're all in this together, we're in this together with Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-000-000.u3	And now let me ask for a speech and give the floor to the Ambassador of Ukraine. You have the chance to get out. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-000-000.u4	Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for your invitation to speak here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's a great honor. This morning we woke up to a completely different world, a world where the Russian Federation ruthlessly violated the UN Charter, all the standards of international law, the security architecture in Europe, which we built after World War II, the price of the great victims. This morning the Russian Federation launched a total invasion of Ukraine, attacked a sovereign and independent state and began a war in which it is no longer just us, Ukrajinec, but all of us, Europe, the Czech Republic, the whole civilized world, our values and our freedom. Russia attacked Ukraine's border post along the length of the common border and also on the part of the Ukrainian-Belarus border. Our defensemen are fighting the enemy cruelly all over our country, and the enemy is losing. Russia is carrying out regular air attacks on military buildings of the armed forces of Ukraine and infrastructure as well as civilian objects throughout the territory of Ukraine. Attacks hit almost all Ukrainian airports, warehouses with military ammunition, bases of Ukrainian military troops. The victims of a brutal Russian attack against our state have already become dozens of Ukrainian soldiers, dozens, maybe hundreds - we don't really know - civilians, including children. For example, the insidiousness of the occupyer is witnessed by the fact that today, in an attack in the east, they were covering themselves with white vehicles with the OSCE logo. Our army is on its territory, defending their families, their homes and their homeland. Ukrainian soldiers are determined to fight to the last drop of blood. On their shoulders now lies the security not only of Ukraine but of Europe. However, in order for the armed forces of Ukraine to withstand a difficult fight against the Russian army, we urgently and immediately need the help of our allies. We see and feel strong friendly support from the Czech Republic. We are very grateful and moved that the Czech Republic is almost all blue and yellow today. We receive hundreds of letters of support and offers of assistance to potential Ukrainian refugees at the embassy. I would like to thank the government of the Czech Republic and the whole Czech nation once again for their assistance, concrete military assistance, ammunition, which we very much appreciate. The Czech Republic has thus been included in several countries that have really given us concrete help. To that end, I would also like to say that the situation at the borders with the EU countries is still calm and we do not see any rapid increase in migration flows in both directions. However, if necessary, we will be grateful for providing temporary facilities especially for older people and children from affected areas. However, now, in the current situation, we need really strong, coordinated and strong steps that alone can stop Putin's aggression against Ukraine. We really need new, cruel sanctions that will destroy the Russian economy. If we want to stop Russia, we need to block it at all possible levels. The first is the financial and economic level. We therefore call for an immediate halt to SWIFT for Russia and for blocking all assets and transactions of Russian banks, including their subsidiaries and successors in the world. One possible response is blocking the bank accounts of high-ranking Russian officials and stopping the activities of the largest Russian companies registered abroad, including in the Czech Republic. We are creating, and today our President, the Anti-Putin Coalition, has declared this, and we call on our partners to join us. The world must prohibit the supply of any goods, including hardware, software and services, including financial services to Russian companies operating in the oil, gas, nuclear energy, coal mining and other mineral resources. The blow to these areas will hurt Russia most. Requesting no flight for all Russian air carriers. Ukraine also calls for the expulsion of Russian ambassadors around the world, the interruption of diplomatic relations with Russia and the exclusion of Russia from the UN Security Council. Putin must really feel the maximum political and diplomatic isolation. In addition to intimidating sanctions against Russia, we also need specific assistance for our armed forces, both the financial - National Bank of Ukraine has already established a special account to support the Ukrainian army - as well as the military in the form of weapons, for which I have already thanked the Czech Republic, but today we have discussed other options, medical - also I would like to thank for the readiness of the Czech Republic to treat our soldiers. Fuel, that's what Ukraine really needs today and needs now. Ukraine will never give up its territory and its freedom. We will fight, we will fight for ourselves, we will fight for you, but with your support it will be easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-000-000.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the agenda of the 13th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 3, 163 Members and Members were in favour. The draft programme has been approved. [[16.30 hours]] We will now proceed to the one point of the meeting, which is:
