ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u1	42. Government bill on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment / House print 55/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Anna Hubáčková, the Environment Minister, will state the proposal. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the proposal for a law on the limitation of the environmental impact of selected plastic products. The proposed law is the first of two legislations which regulate the environmental impact of certain disposable plastic products at the same time. Since the process of approving bills has not been completed before the end of the 8th parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, both prints are submitted again for discussion and I would just like to point out that the transposition period has expired on 3 July 2021. The aim of the proposed bill is to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on the limitation of the environmental impact of certain plastic products into the Czech legal order. Directive 2019/904 was adopted in order to reduce plastic waste in seas and oceans, which threatens ecosystems, biodiversity and human health. The subject matter of the adaptation is the adoption of measures ensuring full transposition of Directive 2019/904 and the following measures: prohibition of the placing on the market and circulation of certain selected plastic products, such as plastic cutlery, plates, straws, cotton sticks, sticks for fixing and supporting balloons, containers and drinking cups made of expanded polystyrene, as well as products made of oxodegradable plastic. Other measures: labelling of products for the purpose of informing the end-user of the presence of plastics in the selected plastic product and appropriate procedures for handling the selected plastic product that has become waste. The introduction of an extended producer liability system for certain types of selected plastic products and associated obligations. Manufacturers will be obliged, through so-called collective systems, to fulfil certain obligations, in particular to cover the costs of cleaning waste for municipalities. Other measures: implementing special awareness-raising activities, informing end users - such as the impact of inappropriate ways to dispose of waste from selected plastic products on the sewer network. The proposed law thus promotes the principles of a circular economy which prefers re-usable products to disposable products and aims to limit the amount of waste generated. The inspection will be carried out by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Centre and the Regional Hygiene Station. Other measures are then prepared in another legal standard, and today we will have it as House press 56. I would like to ask you to discuss the bill at first reading and its commandments to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your opening words. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of this proposal, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Madam, you have the floor. And before that, I will ask anyone who wants to do anything other than the law that is being introduced today to please go to the foyer or to keep their voice down. Thank you very much. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, I'm sorry, there's hardly anyone here, dear colleagues. As the Minister has already said, we have a law to transpose European legislation in the area of reducing the impact of plastics on the environment. This and the related press have already been submitted to the House in the past period, but they have not been discussed. Therefore, the deadline for transposition has already expired in the last calendar year, namely from 3 July 2021, the Czech Republic is exposed to the risk of starting infringement. I will not repeat the list by which the Minister has preceded the content circuits of the proposal. Talked, I think, describes its contents in a nutshell. Rather, I would like to point out some of the basic specifics of the proposal for a better understanding. Just some selected plastic products are regulated here, not all-embracing anti-plastic legislation, but efforts to reduce them, especially disposable plastics. We will regulate both plastic packaging, such as food containers, drinking cups, and so-called plastic coats, such as plastic cutlery, cotton bars, wet wipes, tobacco products with filters and the like. We are not discussing drapes or protective gloves or protective suits against the Covide. That's just for the record, because they're the media's most grateful topics. It is also important to mention that the submitted does not go beyond the requirements laid down by European regulations. In addition to product labelling and education, we have two important news in this House. I've already mentioned the ban on certain products. Then we have proposed so-called collective systems of extended responsibility for certain types of selected plastic products. [[12.10 hours]] What's going on? For packaging products, these systems are already in place according to the Packaging Act. They represent the possibility of combined performance through an authorized packaging company. For non-wrapped plastic products, manufacturers will be forced to create collective systems for the types of selected plastic products, taking into account certain specific obligations. Given the nature of the duties, it is problematic in practice to fulfil these obligations individually. Imagine, for example, the obligation to pay to municipalities the costs of cleaning waste from the selected plastic products, which end-users illegally dispose of outside their disposal sites, or the costs of concentrating waste within the municipal waste management and transport and disposal system. The model of the functioning of collective systems is in principle identical to the end-of-life Act and the proposed bill also refers frequently to the provisions of the End-of-life Act as regards the modification of collective systems. This is the most important thing from my point of view, and given that I have been intensively involved in the creation of the law, I hope to have several, say, personal remarks in the debate on the direction of anti-plastic legislation. Mr President, I would like to sign up for the debate subsequently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u5	Thank you, Madam. Thank you for your intelligence. You can, of course, join the general debate. I therefore open the general debate. Mr Kobza has entered into a general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, hello, good afternoon. Of course, the question of plastics and their excessive consumption and excessive waste volume bothers us to some extent too. Unfortunately, we are also worried about how we can actually contribute to the expansion of these waste, for example by changing the wine law, when the reversible stainless steel barrels were no longer used and the entire wine trade went to the so-called Bag-In-Box, which created several trains of plastic carton waste, which was not here before, because the barrels were just flushed out and their full return took place. When we look at grocery stores or fast-track goods, we find out how the volume of the food in plastic, the classic case of yogurt, actually shrinks and remains the same volume. In some cases, it even happens that manufacturers only push the bottom of the container up and only increase the hem that remains down, but suddenly you find that instead of 200-gram yogurt, it already says that it's only one hundred and seventy-five grams and so on, but the plastic wrapper remains the same. Just as the question of milk sold in non-refundable plastic containers cannot be recycled, it is not possible to re-use it. We think that we have a huge reserve just in order to exert pressure on the returnable vessels, the reversible volumes, whether they are bags, whether they are bottles, whether they are simply all containers, because the plastic that we buy when we go for food is so much that the plastic waste that comes out of it is really extensive and I think it is a matter that is purely commercial because, in fact, the food comes with the forced sale of the plastic that we buy with it and which, of course, we don't need and which then pollutes our environment. So I think there's plenty of room for us to do something for our country by going back to the returnable packaging, going back to the recyclable materials, and letting go of the tricks that different chains are trying on us in the form of plastic packaging. That's what's going on here with us. Of course, from the global perspective of pollution, which we see especially in the oceans, because there is a huge accumulation of plastic waste, there is an expansion of microplastics, that is the second end of this chain, which starts in our store when we go to buy something. So we have to somehow take advantage of the possibility that we have the opportunity to intervene at the beginning of this chain not food, but waste, as far as plastics are concerned, and we can push suppliers, manufacturers, to use, first, plastics that are biologically degradeable, and second, to use materials that are reversible, which can be recycled. As I have already said in this example of wine, it is quite frightening in itself that at that time, when Minister Jurečka enforced this law, all environmentalists were completely inert, completely unresponsive, and it was clear that it was an unnecessary creation of really tons and tons of waste, which was not here before and was not necessary. I think the overall situation is rather alarming, and as a naturalist, I take it very hard to see those piles of plastics when I'm carrying sorted waste and I see what's actually useless we buy and throw away again, because it doesn't really benefit except that the supplier makes money on it. So the end is all the more tragic, that across the water, across the sea, through the fish, through the microplastics, it's coming back to us again, but it's coming back to us as such, and that's the consequences that are far more serious. So I would like to ask you all across the political spectrum to work together and change the laws so that we can really get the plastic into circulation as little as possible. We have options. Technically, it's easy to do. Of course, we have to count on suppliers to start screaming, but it triggers every time we touch them in some way on established technologies or on established materials, but it's feasible. Refundable packaging, biodegradable packaging, minimum plastics and use when it is not possible to return it, inert materials that do not harm the environment, such as glass or similar materials, ceramics and the like. All of this can be used, but he just wants to want it, and he wants to show it with common will. And I think it concerns all of us. We all have children, and we should not be indifferent to what they will eat with us, how they will live, where they will live, what environment they will live in. So I would like to make this request to you, this appeal, this call. Let's do something about it because it's up to us. If we don't do it, no one will do it for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u7	Thank you. That was Mr Kobza. I will ask the rapporteur if she wants to speak now, because, as rapporteur, he has Article 58 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 the right to speak at any time during the debate, so the Member took advantage of it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u8	In my introductory words, I announced that I would like to speak because, as I have already mentioned, I have been involved in this law. I do not want to do any major obstructions here, I would just like us to realise how these bans have actually taken place, or what has led the European Union to accept these bans. We need to look deeper into 2017. In 2017 he became in England, in London, such a case that an oil plug was discovered in the sewerage. I'm sure you know what oil does when you pour it into some sewer or water - it freezes. So it was found in the oil plugs that contained wet napkins, tampons, condoms and other things. The cork weighed... about a weight of 17 buses. The fact that the European Union has begun to think about what could be done with this problem has, in essence, been put off by this. In my opinion, this problem was illogically solved by going the way of bans instead of going the way of education and telling each other what is right and should not be given into the sewer system - so, in essence, it was concluded that it was rather forbidden. Of course, then the sea came along, where we had these turtles that had pierced the eyes of the straws that had the knuckles, and more and more. And then came this directive, which was to be transposed into individual states, even if we say to ourselves - we, the Czech Republic, are one of the best sorters, we are the third best in the European Union, you could say that we are doing our best to do this, so we are actually going the way of bans. Personally, I have had and will always have an internal problem with this law, because half of our family are chemists who have worked their entire lives in higher managerial functions on polypropylene, polyethylene, ethylene units, and, of course, when I put energy into something, then I logically take the energy from it. No - we're going the way of the bans. Of course, the transposition, we're talking about 2019, the transposition had two years with the fact that since last year this law should have been effective. Of course, a covid flew in when we say to people, "Don't eat in restaurants, bring your food home, put it in the containers that we're going to ban you now." That is why I have an internal problem with this - and I have always had an internal problem with it, even though I was a civil servant before, and I have, of course, had to do what has been forwarded to us and to transpose it into Czech law, but now, finally, as an MP, I can say my own opinion - and I have an internal problem with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u9	Thank you for your attention to the rapporteur and Mr Zlínský will be ready. In the meantime, just before I give him my word, I'll read more apologies. Minister Martin Baxa apologizes today on Wednesdays between 13 and 14 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Horák apologises for today's meeting from 12 to 13 o'clock for working reasons, and Mr Jaroslav Dvořák from 11 o'clock to the end of the sitting for health reasons. These were pardons, and I give the floor to Mr Zlínský, with a factual remark, Mr Nacher is reporting. Mr Nacher is giving up his point of fact, so, Mr Zlínský, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I represent Mrs Karla Maříková, who is ill and unable to attend this meeting. It's true that I added some things to my performance, and much of the performance is her thoughts, so I'm going to present them here. The proposal for a directive was already submitted by the European Commission in May 2018 in order to reduce plastic waste in seas and oceans, which threatens ecosystems, biodiversity and human health. It accumulates in the seas and oceans, and plastic residues have been found in many species of marine animals. The draft law first prohibits the placing on the market and circulation of certain selected plastic products. The oceans are becoming dangerously filled with garbage that harms all their inhabitants and our people. The situation is getting serious. We don't know exactly how many plastics are in the world's oceans, but experts estimate that they are hundreds of millions of tons. Plus, there's more and more garbage flowing through here all the time. Even now, more than a million birds and hundreds of thousands of mammals, such as our close dolphins, whales, or seals, are paying for human disorder every year. We'll find floating landfills in the northern Pacific Ocean. A press release on the occasion of the UN environmental assembly is talking about a worrying forecast. Each year around 367 million tons of plastic waste are produced in the world, many plastics, bags, bags, plastic pouches, cutlery, trays, inflatable balloons and others end up in the oceans. There are ways to prevent the penetration of plastics into the oceans and seas. One of them is to reduce their production and consumption, which is the aim of this amendment. Because once plastics reach the oceans, there is no easy way to remove them. Plastics will not disintegrate here and they will get into the food chain of marine animals - this is what Kobza, a colleague, spoke about - and eventually into our bodies through microplastics. The effect of these microplastics on human health is currently being investigated. There are many studies that are studying this, and unfortunately it is concluded that they have a very adverse effect on our health. It's probably by reducing the immune system function. Of course, the logical thing is that the microplastics, which are actually small clips of the original plastics, they get or are absorbed through the lining of the small intestine into the blood, they get into the liver and possibly into other organs. If you drink tea, focus on what the bag is made of, because of these plastic bags, they have found that a large number of these microplastics are released and can very adversely affect your health. Of course, I don't want to scare you, but after all, caution never hurts. Our Western civilization should direct its attention to the development of plastic materials that will be capable of spontaneous harmless degradation in the natural environment. Without this, the unfavourable current situation will continue, although perhaps slower. Even so, the SPD, our club, will support the two House prints 55 and 56, which are related. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next for the debate is Mr Babka and Mr Král will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law here which we have already had here in the last parliamentary term, unfortunately we have not been able to reach it. This law, as the Minister has briefly stated here, concerns the prohibition on the marketing of certain plastic products. I will get to this later in my speech to realize what and what specific plastic products this ban will touch, what products it will fall into and what it will mean for our company and for the market. This law lays down the rights and obligations for, as I have already said, a whole range of plastic products and, in particular, disposable plastic products which are not produced, designed or placed on the market in such a way that they can be used multiple times during their life cycle or have several cycles by being returned to manufacturers for re-filling or re-used for the same purpose for which they were intended. Plastic products, for which the proposed law lays down new rules to limit their environmental impacts, are both non-wrapped plastic products, namely cotton bars, cutlery, wet napkins, tobacco products with filters and the like - as has already been said here, food containers, drinking cups and so on. [[12.30 hours]] The objective of the draft law is to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019. Here's the interesting date, and it's already here in the debate. It would probably be interesting if the European Union or the European Commission wanted to come up with this regulation at this time, i.e. at the time of the covid, when we see around us every day how many plastic disposable products we are forced to use, whether they are gloves, whether they are covid tests, swab sticks and so on. I am definitely - and because I am a representative of the young generation in this House - completely in agreement with this bill and agree with it, but at the same time I am thinking about how it can go further and what kind of Ministry of the Environment, at this point in time, has a plan on how to deal with these disposable plastics, which need not be included specifically in this bill. And we have also proposed some changes here in the last parliamentary term, which unfortunately have not been adopted, whether it be these sanitary things or microten bags, but I will also get to that. The proposed law therefore provides us with the relevant rights and obligations of manufacturers to meet the objectives of the directive and covers a wide range of plastic products. The proposal for a directive was already submitted by the European Commission in May 2018 in order to reduce plastic waste in seas and oceans, which threatens the ecosystem, biodiversity and human health. The proposed directive was also another step towards supporting the circular economy following Directive 2015/720 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 29 April 2015 amending Directive 94/62/EC as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, and the adoption of the so-called package on the EU's circular economy was just ahead of the adoption. 10 Directive 2019/904 is also part of the so-called European strategy for plastics in the circulatory economy, which aims, inter alia, to protect the environment from pollution by plastic waste. Of course, we know that the most effective way to reduce waste consumption in general is to prevent its production, but we probably cannot do without plastic packaging, and we see it every day, and often their use cannot be influenced in any way. At the same time, we also know - and we know this from our everyday negotiations and from what we see on the store counters - that, of course, they are preparing for this in some way and going forward, for example, that they are not waiting for us to adopt these laws here, we are implementing them. Of course, these producers have been ahead of schedule since we all see some basic environmental issues, and those producers, whether they are large companies, are obviously going to the opposite and are not just waiting for what we here in the House approve. As I said, there are many alternatives that can be replaced with disposable plastic products. Even this law - and it is a very comprehensive law, if you had time to study it - states precisely which specific plastic products will be subject to a ban on marketing in the Czech Republic. These are, for example, cigarette filters where, as an alternative, cellulose filters from plants such as the type of biodegradable thin RA-filter can be used. However, these filters do not show the same quality as normal plastic filters, but can be expected to be innovative and improved. It is also a beverage bottle, where drinking drinks can be built in the city or in the area of high tourism, supplemented by information campaigns. The current density of the drinking network does not correspond to the frequency of consumers and their need to quickly find a source of drinking water. Of course, I agree with this and I will suggest it because, as I am, among other things, a member of the House's work committee here in Parliament, and in the past period, we have managed to establish, in some way, - you might have noticed it here in the foyer - the plastic press, where, of course, we have to set an example. I think my colleague, Elfmark, has been working on the committee for the last parliamentary term, that this is where it came from. And of course, while we're at the drinks, how many times do I think about the same thing that we could think about, and we could have some water vending machines built here, so we might not have so many plastic bottles here on the benches. I think that would be the way we could set an example in this house. Next, they're cotton sticks in the ears. As we know, there are companies that produce repeatedly usable ear-cleaning sticks that, according to the supplier, are more efficient and safer than cotton bars. Another available alternative is disposable paper bars or wood substitutes, but in fact many doctors do not recommend using cotton sticks. Furthermore, these are wet wipes that will be subject to this ban. Of course, these are used to remove makeup and there are also alternative substitutes for them. They're also sanitary pads. The draft law therefore states that non-plastic alternatives to sanitary liners are currently not well known and that a number of manufacturers already have repeatable sanitary liners at their disposal. We talked about this in the lobby, but I don't think I'd go into this debate. And the other thing the law forbids is plastic cutlery... My colleague here... Of course, we can discuss alternatives to sanitary inserts, but it is probably not the purpose of this debate today. So like I said, they're plastic cutlery, where the alternative to cutlery is metal. And last but not least, these are plastic straws that will be banned by this law. For many drinks, straws and mixers are not needed at all, they would not have to be served for drinks, and as an alternative, repeatedly usable straws and mixers made of glass or metal can be used. Now an extended single variant is wooden mixers and paper or bamboo straws. Of course, I understand that for a man who meets the ban on that plastic straw every day... Of course, it wasn't for me either, I always remember that feeling when I had to drink from the bamboo or wood instead of the plastic straw, so I always remember when I was a kid, when I was a baby doctor, when he put that wooden spatula in my mouth... Of course, I prefer the plastic straws too, but in some ways I'm able to limit myself. An interesting source of information is the table, which is also annexed to the proposed law, and it is an estimate of the amount of plastic waste in seas without regulation and its reduction after the introduction of regulation by this very law, which will be implemented throughout the European Union. There's an estimated amount of marine waste in 2030. And just for the record, for example, for cigarette filters without regulation, the amount of cigarette filter waste would be equal to four billion seven hundred and seventy-eight pieces of cigarette filters in the seas. [[4 778,000,000?]] [[12.40 hours]] If we manage to introduce this regulation, the estimate that will be in 2030 is by 50 per cent reduction, 50 per cent reduction, i.e. a reduction in the order of 2.5 million units. For example, for wet wipes, this drop will be slightly lower, 14 percent in order. It's going to be 100 percent on straws, because they're going to be banned completely. In the case of cotton bars, this decrease will be 65 per cent, in the case of bottles for drinks 86 per cent, in the case of sanitary towels 14 per cent, in the case of drinking cups including lids 77 per cent, in the case of chips of 55 per cent, in the case of food containers 78 per cent and in the case of cutlery and in the case of mixers where the ban will be 100%, it will be a reduction of up to 100 per cent in 2030. Another matter - and I would perhaps, because in this case, I am not sure whether this regulation of the European Commission, which, in my view, has come out in the decree, whether it is part of this law, and when it is not, I would ask the Minister whether we would consider adding it to the committee or second reading to the law - and that is the pan-European designation of these disposable plastics by the icon of the turtle. Of course, we see that producers were not waiting for this law to come into force in the Czech Republic, and we can already see that these - unfortunately, I did not take the photo with me - but we see that on cigarettes, on plastic cups, some manufacturers are already giving this designation. It's this turtle that swims in the sea, and it's written under it, there's plastic in the product. I like this, I've been pushing it here, in a slightly different form, in the last parliamentary term. And I'd like to ask the Minister, I'm not really sure that the law contains the obligation of manufacturers to put the mark on the products here. The labelling obligation should apply specifically to sanitary inserts, swabs, swabs, wet household and personal hygiene napkins, tobacco products with filters and filters placed on the market for use in combination with tobacco products and in beverage cups. Because in this case, if possible, and because this law doesn't apply to microten bags, then if it wouldn't be appropriate to consider extending it to microten bags. I was here together with other colleagues in the last parliamentary term, the author of the amendment, which concerned precisely not the ban - we did not go in this direction, we wanted in some way, an educational way that would work on customers to realize that the use of microten bags, these are the small ones, the very smallest microten bags that are used when buying fruit, rolls and so on - so that customers, consumers realize that there is no need for each banana to take one microten bag, that we can inspire and carry bags and bags that are for more use. So if we were to think about this law, because we couldn't get it into the Waste Act, which was here in the last parliamentary term, then if we haven't come up with any regulations yet. I'm not saying ban, because, of course, microten bags are hard to replace with any other alternative, another option. And, of course, it's about how the Ministry of the Environment will try to educate consumers that disposable plastics, including microten bags, aren't completely... that people shouldn't be indifferent. And then maybe at the end of that question, which, of course, also has something to do with this, and it's already here. As far as waste sorting is concerned, we know that we are at the top of the European Union, sorting plastic materials, sorting about 96 percent of people occasionally, that we are good at sorting paper and glass, in electronic waste. And I wonder, because we have not yet had the opportunity to talk to the Minister about this either on the committee or privately, how does she stand up or the new government coalition stand up to the possibility of backing up PET bottles? It is certainly a question that will be raised several times in this parliamentary term. That's about all I have to say about this law right now, thank you for your attention. And, Madam Secretary, if you would be willing to answer some of the questions that have been raised here, I would be happy whether it is here or then on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u13	Thank you very much. That was the MP. I've got two factual points that brought up your performance. The first point of fact is made by Mr Nacher, another point of fact was made by Mr Pražák, then I will give the floor to the Minister with priority rights. [[Member Pražák does not report, only as rapporteur of the previous item he forgot his card entered in the newsletter's table. Instead, Mrs Peštová, rapporteur for the current item, reports on the factual comment from the News Table.]] Mr. Nacher, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I didn't really want to do this, but I took notes. Then I underlined some of them with a blue wave. I'm intrigued. I'm not going back to my colleague's hygiene slips. What reminds me a little bit of a fight with paper straws, it reminds me of that movie "pelíšek." If you've had that experience, it's gonna melt, it's gonna break down a lot in front of you, in front of your face. I was intrigued by some paradoxes here. I don't know if I'm gonna make it in one real time, so I'm gonna turn myself in again. I see a bit of a paradox here from the European Union, although I know that this standard was adopted in 2018, as has been said. On the one hand, we're fighting plastics, just the straws and things like that, and on the other hand, as far as covid is concerned, the environment is flooded with different masks, bars, gloves and, of course, logically, boxes and the various means that we're using to bring the food somewhere else, because it's a trend for us to have as little social contact as possible, not to mention the fact that the unscathed people have no chance of getting into the restaurants at all, so that's how they're gonna take advantage of it. So I'd quite like to hear it, and now I've got it across, here it really fits, because I've heard this contradiction from my honored colleague, so if they would give me an answer to that, and I don't care if it's the secretary of the environment or her predecessor in the position of deputy, how to deal with this paradox because it makes these people completely crazy. And then I'm gonna go back to something so I don't get interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u15	Thank you very much. That was Mr Nacher's point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Mr. Pražák... If Mr Pražák is not logged in, I will delete him, and another point of fact is made by the rapporteur Mrs Peštová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u16	Of course, I would like to add: the Ministry of the Environment, of course, tried, while I was in that position, to do so, and we begged or sent to the Commission as well and asked for a suspensive effect, or, rather, to postpone the effect of this directive precisely because there was a covidary time and, on the contrary, we called on people to use more disposable plastics, and unfortunately, we were not granted. First of all. And of course, Mr. Babka's entry urged me to do this: try to make such a nice experiment at home when you put your bathtub on, put one straw in, get in the tub, put your hands under you, and try to stick it up your nose. It's just Archimedův' law works beautifully. So I don't know how they did it to these turtles, in any case, there was a wave, and I'm just saying, it started in London, and it was getting on and on and on. And it is such a paradox that England is no longer in the European Union, and we continue to do great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u17	Thank you. That was Mrs Peštová's factual point. Another point of fact was made by Mr Kubíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question, I think, about the medical staff sitting here. I can't imagine it very much in hospitals, because there are disposable gloves, disposable suits worn by doctors, various cannulaes and similar things, where one-time things are really very necessary for hygiene and similar matters. And that was a little... not entirely counted on. I can imagine it, for example, in a drinking bag, I think I understand that. I guess that's not a problem anymore. I can even imagine it in a pack of meat, because it used to be put into that grease paper that's going to decompose. But precisely in hospitals and in the case of covid, there must have been a very massive increase in the use of these substances containing microplastics. So I'm kind of wondering how doctors are gonna look at it, and if there's any alternative to replacing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u19	Thank you. That was Mr Kubíček, another factual point, Mr Kasal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'll answer. It does not concern covid, for this are regulations, when any infectious disease in all infections or in the departments - diets must be delivered in disposable plastic things. So there's regulations for that, and they're clearly given, and if we ban this, I don't know what we're gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u21	Thank you. We've exhausted the factual notes, we'll be back... We haven't, colleague Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u22	Thank you. Let me put it another way, from another point of view. I see two paradoxes here. One is the medical one, after all, that's what our colleagues have been talking about, so on the one hand, we're limiting and we're going to limit, no one here has anything to do with it, plastics, and on the other hand, there are measures that specifically magnetize the plastics for use. I don't know how to put it any easier with the use of one-off things of different types, probably doctors will know more, but also how to limit movement between people. [[Minister Černochová off the microphone: I respirators.]] Yes, and the respirators and everything. That means it's against each other, either either it's true or it's true. So I'm kind of interested in the position, and I'm really telling you right now, you know my Eurosceptic view of these things, so I'm consistent about this. Just like I wrote myself a note - metal cutlery, that's what my colleague Babka said as an alternative. I can think of that again - a safety paradox, because I know that perhaps somewhere in airports, on the other hand, metal cutlery are not permitted in terms of safety. And that means that in some moments, things are really bumping into elementary logic. That means no one here has anything against the plastic fight, but let's adjust it to life. So at the same time, let's not say that every day we're gonna wear drapes, respirators, we're gonna poke our noses every two days, we're all gonna wear plastic gloves, doctors are gonna change it like it's a race, it's just not possible. I feel a contradiction out there, and those people are out there asking about it because it's not in my head. So we remove the straws and create millions of tons of something completely different here? The situation has simply changed, so the view of what my esteemed colleague here said, as well as the European Union's view, should change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u23	Thank you very much. Another point of fact was made by Mr Jakob, and Mr Babka will be prepared for a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u24	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a real point of fact, because here we are at the first reading of the bill tabled by the Government YES, Minister YES, Members of the YES are discussing among themselves. So, please, let us, together, order this bill to the committees, where the very questions that you are discussing with each other will be discussed thoroughly. Let's add that to the health committee, because I see that there are a number of questions in this direction, and you will have plenty of time within your club to discuss it. So please, seriously, let's order it to those committees where a lot of those impulses of yours, which, of course, have a ratio, a head and a heel that can be discussed, and your bill will eventually be modified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u25	Thank you, and we have four Members and Members on the verdict. I will read the order: Mr Babka, Mrs Peštová, Mr králíček and Mr Nacher. Congressman Babka, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u26	Thank you for the floor. I still agree with my colleague Jakob - of course I agree with that, but we are not really talking about some specificities here, but about general things that are certainly related to the one-off plastic ban law, and they should also be discussed here in plenary, so that the public will also know exactly what it is. And we would also like to discuss with you, as well as with the Minister, who will certainly perform because she is taking notes. So we want to learn your opinion and the Minister's opinion on this issue. Anyway, a colleague named Nacher. Yeah, they're cutlery, but they're disposable straws and hygiene related to it, because today, of course, a lot of businesses are introducing, like, glass straws, and I'm not really comfortable with you having some coke or anything, and you get a glass straw that you don't know who drank from it in front of you, and so on, here at the... But unfortunately, we're moving in this direction, this law goes that way. I support it, I'm sure I'll vote in favour of the law, I'll look for other alternatives, like I mentioned here, like tightening up from the perspective of the microten bags and so on, but today's society is just going in that direction and we have to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u27	Thank you. Next in line for Mrs Peštová's factual remark. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u28	I would like to respond to Mr Jákob, through Mr President... [[Chairman Jakob.]] Jakob. Jakoba? Jakob. I'm sorry. You said nicely that this is a government proposal, yes. You see, he's not a government proposal, or, respectively, when you make it harder for yourself, the proposal is a transposition of the European Union directive. [[13.00 hours]] And the fact that ANO submitted it... yes, you're right, now you're presenting it, but I'm - if you listened to me carefully - I said I had a problem with it internally. It even escalated by being two employees who left the ministry rather than translating something they didn't agree with internally. You know, we just opened this place up, got here a second time, and I'm telling you what I've been fighting internally. Yes, I was a civil servant and I had to do it because it is a transposition of the European Union directive, but I have an internal problem with it. Why not educate people: It doesn't belong in the sewer system. And instead, we'll ban it! What kind of solution is this? Just like I think you learn in primary school that every time you go to the bathroom, wash your hands, we all learn that the sewers include what belongs there, and what doesn't belong there, like wet napkins, earbuds... I'm the older generation. I was glad to see the '80s year, and I was glad the news came and I didn't have to put the cotton wool on the matches anymore and clean my ear! Well, now they're gonna ban me! They're gonna ban me! So this earplug-- I'm gonna go back to the match, and I'm gonna put that cotton wool on the match again. Is that logical? It's not logical! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u29	Madam, time. Thank you for keeping up for two minutes. Another point of fact was made by Mr králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I would also like to respond to Mr Jakob. What's next? What will happen next, Mr Jakob, through the President? What else can you forbid us? How else are you gonna treat us? You can't make a deal with us, you limit us to everything, and we can't talk at first reading yet? So when are we supposed to talk? First reading is about putting arguments on the table to discuss it! Does that bother you? Remember your performances! So please wash your MPs and don't tell us what to do! We know that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Nacher. Other factual points in the order of Mrs Fialová and Mr Heller. Mr. Nacher, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I also wanted to respond to my colleague Jakob, through you. He attacked us here, then he ran out into the hallway again, I don't see him here. And again: When else is this to be discussed instead of at first reading? If it's in the second and we're asking questions other than signing up for the amendments, Jakob will come forward and say we should keep it until the third reading. And if it's for the third reading, he'll say, "You should have talked it all out at first reading, second reading, and committees." No! That's not how it works. It's just the first reading, and show me a single performance of one of us that doesn't relate directly to that thing, the only one! Not one, not one! And I would remind my colleague Jakoba when he was here for two days or three days barely, as a new MP, so I suspect to myself that the Czech Television report on the management took an hour speech and thus completely killed it, so we did not discuss the point at all. He's been here two days and he's been reading something. None of us here read or read anything. He read it, and he was very funny that he was able to end the point because it was one o'clock and it was over. Please sweep your own doorstep. Show me one performance where one of us didn't speak to the point at first reading, and we'll sign up. And it became exactly the opposite of what my colleague Jakob wanted. He gets out, and there's four actuals all of a sudden. He extended it by four or two, eight minutes with his performance. So think about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u33	Next in line for Mrs Fialová's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u34	Thank you for the floor, and I would also like to respond to Mr Jakob, through you. This law was passed here in the past period, and I personally proposed the pre-election of this law about three times. Always from among the party currently in the lead, it has been rejected, not assigned, not discussed! And now he's gonna lecture us to hurry because there's a transposition going on? And what's going on here is that we're all discussing this? We've already discussed this law in the past period, behind the scenes, because it raises controversy, because we're in the covidal era, and the questions are falling right here. People look at us like we're crazy to want to forbid something, and we make them wear drapes everywhere. Suddenly there are birds hanging our drapes on their necks. And that's okay? We're gonna ban straws and other products - and I'm not even gonna talk about sanitation here because we're going back to the Stone Age. And really sweep your doorstep, because long ago this law could have been negotiated in the past period!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u35	Thank you. That was Mrs Fialová, another factual point, Mr Heller. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u36	Thank you. Mr President, by your means, my lords, I do not understand this, from the YES movement. One of them is performing here and says that he would like re-usable inserts, and the other member of the ANO movement will come out here and say that he doesn't like the whole thing, and then the third one comes out here and says that the ANO movement is clear. Well, he's obviously not clear, so make it clear what you want, because what sounded here in Mr. Babka's speech, if you've been listening, is appropriate for maybe 168 hours. And what was going on here in these individual things, obviously you're not clear. So, when you're clear, maybe we'll do this in a better way at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u37	Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mr králíček, Mrs Ožanová Zuzana will be ready. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u38	So, Mr Heller, through Mr President, again: do not insult our Members! First of all. Secondly, here is proof that we simply have differences of opinion in the movement, we are not sheep. I'm králíček, Mr. Babka has a different opinion, we're just not sheep, so just remember it someday! [[Applause and laughter in the hall.]] And we can perform, we can really perform at first reading, and we won't discuss it on our own somewhere, so we don't accidentally keep you here! The first reading is for the proposal to be discussed here. So read the Rules of Procedure because Patrik said it well: At second reading you will instruct us that we should have said it at first reading, and in third, that we should be quiet now, because it is to be voted! So we'll talk if we want to!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u39	That was Mr králíček, and I will ask Mrs Ožanová, who is the last one to make a point of fact. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question: is it really forbidden to express your own views? At least, according to my colleagues' speeches on my right, that's the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u41	At this point, I have no further application for a factual comment, so we will return to the general debate. However, the first was declared with priority rights by the President of the club of the ANO Schillerová ANO. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I'd like to ask perhaps the Minister, by your means - now I don't even know when I have to say through you, and when I don't - why did the proposal that our government has sent down? I mean, the proposal could have been on this House's agenda a long time ago. He was withdrawn to be sent here again by this government. So maybe if the secretary, by your means, would be so kind as to explain why it was like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u43	Thank you, Madam President and others... Madam Secretary reporting with priority rights. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u44	Good noon, everyone. I'm gonna answer a few questions that came up, and I'm gonna answer the last one, too. First, if the law deals with world activity, education. Yes, it does, it solves the markings. As far as medical waste is concerned, there are exceptions. If any plastic waste eventually gets there, it is considered to be a health hazard. [[13.10 hours]] Why did I bring this law before you? This is because it is a transposition of the European Union directive, and I have to have the basis for the European Union to start the infringement that we have done for it. That's my explanation. Why wasn't it in the past period, I'm sorry - I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u45	Thank you, Minister. President Schillerová is once again applying for priority rights. Madam President, you have the floor. Before I give you my word, I'll read another apology. Mr Lacina apologizes from 13:00 to 14:00 on this day. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u46	Thank you, Minister, but I did not get the answer to my question. There's no way I blame you for not discussing this in the last term, that wasn't your problem. However, our government, all the prints that weren't in time to discuss, precisely because it threatened to infringement that we were already past the implementation deadline, talked about it here, sent quickly to this new House again to discuss quickly. And your government illogically - I've also pointed to the grémia several times - I said, "Watch out, these are the things where inflection threatens - she pulled them back to send them back here again. It's a waste of valuable time. That was my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u47	Thank you, Madam President. We have Mr Babka's factual comment. Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u48	Thank you for the floor. A colleague of Heller's, through you. Mr. Colleague, yes, I have spoken here about the law, I have spoken about supporting it, I have spoken about being a representative of the young generation and that I perceive this problem of disposable plastics, I have spoken about the fact that I perceived it during the last parliamentary term. Yes, I mentioned the sanitary pads here, and I mentioned them for that very reason, as well as other plastic cutlery, straws and so on - precisely because this law prohibits them. At the same time, I said that I do not want to discuss this here in my contribution, because it says that non-plastic alternatives to sanitary inserts are currently unknown, but a number of manufacturers already have repeatedly usable sanitary liners at their disposal. These products are washable, reusable and usually made exclusively from cotton or a mixture of cotton or bamboo fibres with a waterproof polyurethane layer. That's what I quote from the evidence that goes with the law. I said I think there are alternatives, but we're not going to discuss them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u49	Thank you. That was Mr Babka's factual point. We are going back to the general debate. He has had patience and has endured Mr Král, who has the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u50	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, indeed, as a born gentleman - and I would say in this pre-lunch time - am far from commenting on the measures that will save London's subway from oil plugs, and I really do not want to embarrass the ladies here in particular if we find alternatives to hygienic inserts or gentlemen, if we find any alternatives to condoms and the like. I will try to be as brief and constructive as possible. Although it is not entirely my own, the more so in this place, I must say that the circular directive of the European Union, which we have heard about here several times, is going in the right direction. They're simply trying to move the linear waste economy towards a circular economy. I must thank the Ministry of the Environment and the previous House for succeeding in enforcing the new Waste Act after big discussions. We may not have a problem with plastics here, that is clear, but what we are hearing here today is that we have beautifully functioning collective systems and that municipalities have income from waste disposal and the like, that is true, but on the other hand, we have to realise what the factual situation is. We all know that we are a landfill power, that the transposition of the circulatory package as a whole is not working. To me, although I am a government MP, it simply annoys the salami method, which, in my opinion, we can gradually get into unsolvable situations, because the individual sub-legal acts and standards that we are preparing here in good faith can put us in a situation where they are not compatible at the end. For this reason, I think that discussing this law at the moment is not entirely happy, given that we do not have a completed Republic waste management plan, we have an open packaging law, we lack implementing decrees, we do not have a set medium-term outlook for the State Environmental Fund and so on. Rather, I am calling for a really conceptual debate, and I am afraid that if, in good faith - as it looks like so far - we will send the law forward to the committees - even for my committee I can promise - despite giving it maximum care, we will simply fail to prepare individual legal acts to work together. That's what I personally don't like. However, I understand that this is essential and that it is necessary to pass the law forward, even though we hear from the author's mouth or the previous co-author at the Ministry of the Environment that she has a problem with it. We hear that other ANO colleagues also say: Yes, we want this law, but we have important questions, so I think that this should have been dealt with really in advance at the Ministry of the Environment. I was on the inter-ministerial commentary of this law, which, of course, was correct, everything was settled, was quoted in part, but we all see that these questions are here, and I fear that we will not catch it here so that in the finals the circular economy system works for the benefit of citizens and the environment. I fear that in the finals, if we go the Czech way and the salami method, it will feel both the wallets and the health of our fellow citizens, or the environment, because the individual acts will simply not play together and will not be related. However, I understand that the Ministry of the Environment wants to discuss this, and given the seriousness of the subject matter and the broadness of the debate that undoubtedly awaits us, as well as the debate today, I would like to propose an extension of the time limits for committee discussions to 80 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u51	Thank you very much. Your performance raised two factual points. The rapporteur has applied for the first, Mrs Peštová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u52	I would like to thank Mr Král, through Mr President, for appreciating the work. It's not excluded at all with what I said. The employees of the Ministry of Environment have done an incredible job, let it be waste legislation, let it be a circular economy. As far as waste management plans are concerned, they are valid until 2024 with the fact that, of course, there will be an update of the plans that awaited the new legislation that has passed and entered into force. As for the salami method, I would agree with you, but there is even a different problem than the salami method. The problem here is that the European Union is setting unbelievable targets, and those objectives must, of course, be achieved somehow. [[13.20 hours]] And when you take waste management, you have 100 percent of the waste, and then when you're talking to chemists who would like to do chemical recycling, you're talking to plasticists who would do recycling again, like material use, if you're talking to sorting lines that have a different purpose, then of course there are those who would like to use it as TAP and others and then suddenly you find that 100 percent of the material isn't enough for you. But the worst part is that the European Union will ensure that this is still the goal that everyone has to fulfil. And then when you figure it out, all of a sudden you find that you have 100 percent of the material, and for everyone to meet the targets, there would have to be twice as much of the material. So I'm saying that it would also need a revision of the directives - not just a revision of the directives, but also a revision of the objectives, if at all... I'm not saying I don't agree with those directions, but somebody has to tell me what the priority is. What's the priority? Is it chemical recycling? Is it combustion, energy recovery? What's the priority?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u53	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mr Vomáčka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first to ease the emotions. The rapporteur said she was one of the older generations. You've done a lot of wrong to yourself. I think you're at least a middle generation, certainly not an elder. But otherwise I will respond to my colleague, the Král, through the President, who praised the last House for the Waste Act. I think of it as a long-time mayor as an incredible mess. We are currently trying to deal with this as a small village, and I know a whole range of municipalities that recruit workers to meet the nonsense that is there. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u55	Thank you. Another factual point is Mr Babka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u56	Thank you for the floor. I will return to the way I was attacked here by my colleague Heller, through you, Mr President, and, at the same time, colleague Jakob has spoken here about how we are to make peace with the movement and we are to agree what we want or do not want. Then, here in the debate, a coalition fellow Member, Mr Král, will speak, and, contrary to what the Minister has said, he will propose an extension of the time limit for committee discussions to 80 days. Well, maybe you guys can make the peace of mind in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u57	Thank you. Another factual point, Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u58	I wanted to respond to my previous speaker, but apparently, through Mr President, he has already escaped somewhere. I don't think of the Waste Act as a paquilas. The Waste Act has been discussed for a long time, you could say, at least four or six years, with, of course, being presented twice. For the first time, with this law, the Ministry came to the Government's Legislative Council, and because elections were approaching again, and because it was clearly clear that this law had no chance to pass through the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, so it was withdrawn, and I think the second round was successful. Yes, there was a big discussion about that. As far as the seminars are concerned, and not just seminars: no law has been discussed as much - perhaps other than the construction law - as was the Waste Act. So from my point of view, I think the law was properly discussed. Otherwise, he wouldn't have gotten a match either. The Union of Towns and Municipalities, otherwise it would not have been a conformity of the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry. So, on the contrary, I think - and thank you again, through Mr President, Mr Král - that although he is from the second field, he acknowledged that there really was work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u59	Thank you very much. Another point of fact was made by Mr Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u60	Thank you. I'll be brief. I'd like to make a beautiful illustration of the difference between us. Here it was -- we were accused of not having the same opinion, let me get this straight. On the other hand, if we all had the same opinion and performed, we would get the label again that we are all sheep, that we have one opinion. But right here from one club was heard from a colleague of the Král in a completely different way than the Minister's, and a completely different view, as I understand it, of some other standards than his colleague Vomáčka. And we wouldn't have thought to comment here that you had a different perspective. That's just part of it, and every one of these MPs here is gonna put it on a microphone. I, for one, will support my colleague the Král's proposal for extension, and somebody else won't, my colleague Babka might not. On the contrary, a colleague of Vomáčka has the opposite opinion than his own colleague, the Král. But none of us would have thought of commenting that you had different opinions, so you can clear it up at the club. That is why the Chamber of Deputies is here. Otherwise, there may be a club chairman here, and we can all go out, vote at the end of the day at a distance, so we can make it a whole lot easier on ourselves. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u61	Thank you, that was Mr Nacher's factual point. A statement of fact is to be made by Mr Král.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u62	Just to explain. There's been a misunderstand by colleagues on their own. Of course, I see the actual effects of the new Waste Act in practice, and they are really catastrophic, I totally agree with that, and I therefore warn against the salami method and the extraction of individual legal acts from the context. We didn't understand each other, and based on today's law, which we're going to release here or not - we're going to see further after the vote - it can happen, for example, that it's not just about alternatives to straws and cups and the like, but it's also about sorting out, or fixing mixed municipal waste. Here, some people cling to the budgets of municipalities and the income of municipalities from the disposal and disposal of municipal waste, but here we can get to this - and I would almost say that we will get to the fact that even as a power in sorting, as it was said correctly, we are not actually recycling, and that is the result of our work. This means, for example, the topic that my colleague Babka has opened here, such as backup PET bottles and the like, is not possible in my opinion only in the packaging law, but it is necessary to think about it within the scope of this law. So it's really about conceptual thinking, and if the Ministry of the Environment doesn't do it, we're gonna have to try it on the committees, and once again, on behalf of the Sub-Committee on Technical Environmental Protection, I promise we'll do our best. I'm just worried that we don't have a system like the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u63	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mrs Fialová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u64	Thank you very much. I wanted to publicly thank my colleague, the Král, through Mr President, for having a reasonable opinion and being willing on a logical basis and with the results from practice to really discuss, to have an adequate discussion and to discuss it, whether in committee or here in plenary - and I really thank him publicly that there is someone from the ODS who is willing to have fun and not just to patronise us for how we approach it here. Thank you so much for doing this again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u65	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by the rapporteur, Mrs Peštová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u66	I would like to see Mr Král, through Mr President. You said it was in the Packaging Act, but even this law remembers recycling. What you said about PET recycling, the law remembers it, so by 2025, the big drinkers must put 25 percent of the recycling back into production or, respectively, into the product, and gradually the percentages rise to 30 percent. That's why the beautiful event got heated - let's back up PET because they can't get to PET because the car industry will overpay them. [[13.30 hours]] So instead of making a deal, or instead of paying more for the rPET, they'd rather come up with an action: let's back up. It's simple. Which I think is wrong, too. The question should be open here, and I think we should stand up to it because I say, "I enjoyed it once, I've been through the seminars, so I've heard these different reactions from individual drinkers. In their very nature, multinational large companies need to get to rPET, and they don't have a chance to get to it. It's pointless that we give it as a duty and pay it as a state. They already have that option, so if they want to back up, let them back up, but for their own money, but not for the state to pay for it, the whole network. That's what this is all about, nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u67	Thank you very much. That was the last point of fact. Madam Secretary is reporting with priority rights. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u68	Thank you. I apologize to President Schillerová, I don't think I understood the question. But now I'm going to specify my answer. This law, this material, was submitted to the government 24. 11. I'm just pointing out that we've never downloaded it, on the contrary, I've called for it to be a problem that we have to solve, we want to solve, and so I see it from the debate, which is that interest in solving it is. Of course, the question is, what else can change, and I am listening carefully now to prepare for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Another one for the general debate is Mrs Balaštíková and Mrs Dostálová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u70	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start from a slightly different keg. I always criticize such non-conceptual steps and I resent the fact that the European Commission often commands us, commands us, prohibits us, but does not have completely conceptual solutions, often these regulations go against each other, and most importantly they destroy our practice and are often unrealistic in practice. And what bothers me most is the inflexibility of their decisions. The current time, which I call covid, has shown us that it is a plastic time. And doctors are the ones who needed plastics, and thank God, because they're above the health of the citizens, and today they wouldn't be able to be without the plastics, and even we wouldn't be able to be. So we have to ask ourselves that we will not be able to completely exclude all disposable plastics, as planned in the future, from life because we have no alternative to what it takes. And now I'm going to go back to what's always my theme, it's agriculture, it's food. I have held several... or two conferences in the past period, plastic packaging in the food industry and disposable plastics. The colleagues who spoke here before me are right. Yes, we have to do something about it, we should deal with it, and I think the food people are ready to do it, and they're looking for alternatives. But they don't have them. And I, when I was looking into whether research was working to get us into something to pack things up so that we could get to it, no one in the world was really offering anything. And then when we begin to move forward, Madam Secretary, further, through the President, I ask if we ban it, but you must always give us what we will do next, what we will put it into. Where are we going with this? And I would certainly like the Ministry of Health and Doctors to have an exception here, so that they too are the ones who have the highest right to decide what it is, because they dwell on human life, and I would like this resort to be heard, because I invited them to the conference, and they were very happy to say, "We are not completely spoken to, and we should be the ones who speak most. Of course, I'm saying that the circular economy is right, recycling is right, it has to be all here. But I also have to ask as a bit of an economist: we have invested considerable funds in the development of plastics, in various innovative materials, machines, and now it makes me feel like it's actually a failed investment, that somebody has made a very bad decision in the past, because now we're going to liquidate all of this and by giving some regulations to foodmakers, so we're going to thwart their investments in food packaging. And I have to ask who's going to pay for all this again, and we're going to throw ourselves into another area that won't cost a small amount of money. I'm not saying they're not properly spent, but they're going to be big resources, and of course these people are worried, and they're saying, "Who's going to pay us? Because these people are just tired of constantly investing in other regulations when they're not sure that they're gonna pay off some equipment yet, and there's a new one that's actually gonna devalue their investment in a way that's not even economically settled yet. And I think that, Madam Secretary, through the President, it would be impossible to think about speaking with your mouth to other countries in the EU to look at why we actually have plastic problems. This is mainly about the irresponsible behaviour of consumers, who, after using a disposable plastic product, do not respect the way it is disposed of and do not put it into municipal waste, thus, of course, causing big, really big problems and to a large extent endangering the environment, of course, and thus the lives of animals and people. We've heard my previous speakers here about the pollution of the sea with disposable plastics, and it's not about anything else, like people's irresponsible behavior. Whether some funds really should not go into education and we should not deal with raising responsible behavior, because I think it's still just a ban, a punishment, a fine, a regulation that it's not exactly the right instrument. And I can see how these organizations are fighting here, and it's pressure on the rest of the public, and it's manipulation with that, but most importantly, no one realizes that this, please nicely, costs money and it's public money, it's all of us's money. I think that this is where the European Commission should think, including MEPs, to talk about keeping these regulations consistent with the economy. I heard a fellow mayor here, of course, who said it was a problem in the realization practice. I think it is right to set high goals, ambitious goals, but it must not be unrealistic objectives, and it must not be objectives that are unrealistic in practice, because we are often in the heat of some kind of salvation that we do not think of those to whom it is then, and basically that they would like to comply with this regulation, but it does not even happen, so there are violations, and then let us not be surprised that we are the subject - politicians - that we are the subject of criticism on the part of those to whom it applies, because we want to win in the political struggle, we want to approve the law, but we will forget that we must always talk to those who are most concerned, and then they are the ones who put these products on the market, who also need them, in some way, for example, to use the food, hygienically packaged, safe and then safe, but also to tell citizens how they must then load it. It is beautiful that we are the third country that has the largest classification, but we may not even ask how it is fought by representatives in municipal politics and whether it is still viable for them. A colleague here spoke of a problem that arose in the sewer network in London. London has dealt with such a problem three times that really insoluble fats have clogged the sewer network, and in that fat cork they have gotten indistinguishable plastics, which then caused the obstruction of the sewer system. Maybe London, because the plug was huge, it was as big as a bus, so it was written about. [[13.40 hours]] But I can tell you that with fats and that our citizens are simply releasing things that don't belong there and that cause these very things, then the mayors are fighting again, because most of the time they're management of the sewer network, and I have to think about the municipalities that have small budgets, because they're terrifyingly gonna do something to them, and then the inhuman behavior of their own citizens will cause problems. Of course, the culprit will never be found after that, because who was the one who finally caused it to really clog? And I have to say, I've dealt with this because I was an environmental councilman on the edge, so the mayors were looking at me, and then when they were dealing with these things, the biggest problem was getting the undissolvable stuff out of the sewer network. So, at the end of my speech, I would just like to ask you, Madam Minister, through Mr President, if you would also like to speak to the Council of Ministers on the environment about how these regulations fall into municipal policy, whether they really think about whether the commitments we are then forced to accede to are feasible in practice and whether studies are actually being carried out in the entire territory into which these regulations are being implemented. Because, of course, I'm not saying that we're not going to start protecting the environment with this, but my last request to you is to realise that Europe is the smallest polluter in the world. And Europe, if it doesn't start negotiating with other people who haven't even started yet - don't be mad at me, but if I got abroad, I'm a little disabled, I'm looking at how they're dealing with it, how they're supposed to do it - we're not really going to save the world. Europe wants to save the world, but I think that Europe should, above all, save itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u71	Thank you, madam. Next, Mrs Dostálová is enrolled in the general debate. Madam, you have the floor. So far, you're the last one entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that today I have listened quite with interest to the whole debate. I may have actually opened up the relevant European directive and it may be good to look not only at the directive itself, but at the preamble, that is, the paragraphs that led the European Commission to adopt these measures. The first thing I would like to say and what I consider to be very important is that look at when the directive was approved - on 5 June 2019, that is, a non-covoid period. It is logical that all states have come to this because this is certainly a step in the right direction. But my argument today is really about whether we should continue this, knowing that this will cause us enormous problems in the Czech Republic. I looked here for example at Article 12, which defines... or paragraph 12, which defines what a disposable plastic product is. I was intrigued by the sentence, reading literally: "Wet wipes for personal hygiene and household use should also fall within the scope of this Directive, while wet wipes for industrial purposes should be excluded from it. " So what then? So actually, the whole directive is that I as a person can't do almost anything, and basically at a time of hygiene, very hard hygiene regulations will apply to me these very strict measures and bans, but the industry won't touch it? And isn't the industry actually a much bigger polluter than the citizen himself? Again, I have to remind you - because we are talking here about the fact that one of the most affected sectors of the whole pandemic is tourism and hospitality - and here I would like to reiterate: plastic disposable products are, for example, food containers used for fast food or food boxes, sandwiches, Wraps and salads with cold or hot food or food containers containing fresh or processed foods that do not need further preparation, such as fruit, vegetables or desserts. On the contrary, among food containers which are not to be considered as disposable plastic products for the purpose of this Directive are cold-sold food containers which require further preparation. I'm asking, and my previous speaker, my colleague Balaštíková, said it very well here what it will cost hospitality. Aren't we in a situation where we should make it as much money as possible to help them, to help them, and so on? Is it really necessary to talk about these things at this time? I think it is necessary to look at the directive from the point of view that the economic sector, such as hospitality, tourism or health care, is not resolved. Can you imagine the people in those wards who take care of the patient, and it doesn't have to be just covid patients, any patients, giving them tea from a paper straw? Can you even imagine in real life? I cannot imagine it, and I therefore think that we could all really look at the directive as such, because the directive has Article 34 in its preamble and Article 34 says: It is appropriate to allow Member States to decide to implement certain provisions of this Directive by means of agreements between the competent authorities and the economic sectors concerned if certain requirements are met. I therefore understand that we should either not discuss this law now and, of course, send a message to the European Commission that this is not a good time to discuss this law, or to reach the maximum possible way to draw up the time limits for committee discussions in order to get to the most critical time and not to get into some rapid implementation which, of course, the European Commission will draw us to. I certainly don't want to delay, but if we're talking here, and I've actually listed only the other things, I'm still interested in the directive that we're talking about pollution of Union beaches. Well, okay, of course, pollution of the beaches and seas is certainly a significant impulse for us to do something about it, but again I say, let's stand on our feet on the ground. We now have to make the most sure of all the measures that the government also sets against citizens, towards entrepreneurs and so on, and send out a signal from the House that we are simply going to go the way that we are going to abolish all these hygiene standards for them, or replace them with some recyclable stuff that, of course, will cost a lot more money in the finals. So I think that this is not a step in the right direction, and therefore I would like to ask the Minister too much whether there would really be a will for us to either interrupt this negotiation or to extend the time limits in the committees to the maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u73	Thank you, Mrs Dostálová. It is the last one entered into the general debate. I want to ask if anyone else is interested in joining the general debate? I see no one having this ambition, which is why I am ending the general debate. And I'll ask for final words if there's any interest in them. Madam Secretary, are you interested in the final word? Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? It's not like that. In the general debate, there was no proposal to rebut or reject the law. The rapporteur will certainly confirm to me that these proposals did not fall, or that we will be dealing with a proposal on the commandments of committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Mr. Nacher? No, he's not. I've logged a request for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. [[13.50 hours]] We'll wait a little while longer for the co-workers from the lobby. The number of Members has settled, and we will therefore proceed to the vote. I will reiterate that we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee and that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. I did not notice any other proposal for a guarantee committee, so we will proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 72, 145 Members were voted in favour of 144, against none. The proposal was adopted and as a guarantee committee we have designated the Committee on the Environment for this press. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another, to another Committee. Is there anyone here who wants to propose another committee for discussion? Mr. Mr. králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u74	I would suggest another economic committee to discuss the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u75	Yes. I see more applications. Ambassador, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u76	Thank you for the floor. I'd suggest a health committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u77	Health Committee, yes. There is one more motion to amend the committee for discussion. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u78	Yes, I propose an agricultural committee, given that this concerns the water supply and sewerage areas and the food industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u79	The Committee on Agriculture was next. Anyone else here to propose an alternative committee for discussion? No. Let me get this straight. We have proposals for an economic committee, a health committee and an agricultural committee. We will vote on all these proposals. I shall vote on the proposal for a discussion of the press in the Economic Committee. I'm taking the vote, and I've got... I have already begun the vote, I consider the vote (73) confusing. Ending the vote. There is a factual remark from Vice-President Bartošek. No, it was a mistake. [[Fun.]] Another point of fact is here, Mr Flek. He was probably wrong about the vote, too. So we will vote again on the commandment for discussion on the Economic Committee. So I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being tabled being discussed in the Economic Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 74, 148 Members were voted in favour, 72 voted in favour, against 7. The proposal was rejected, or the Economic Committee will not discuss this bill. The next one will be voted on by the Committee on Health. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal being tabled to be discussed by the Health Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 75, 148 Members were enrolled, 72 against 6. The proposal was rejected, or the health committee will not discuss the press. And the last proposal was to discuss the press submitted to the Committee on Agriculture. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being tabled to discuss the Committee on Agriculture? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 76, 148 Members voted in favour of 73, against 8. The motion was denied. We did not have any further proposal for committees, i.e. that we sent the press, or the bill, only to the guarantee committee, namely the Committee on the Environment. I further note that a proposal for an extension of time limits was tabled in the general debate by 20 days to 80 days. However, the rapporteur is reporting, so I give her my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u80	I would still like to respond to how this has been allocated to the various committees. I listened closely to the whole debate, and I heard an appeal here that the committees would be ordered, and the discussion would take place there. Now you've shown something completely different, so I don't understand why you said that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-004-042.u81	Thank you for your performance. And, as I was saying, we're going to decide one more thing, namely an extension of the committee's deadline, and that's a 20-day extension to 80. So I'm gonna start the vote and ask who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 77, 152 Members were voted in favour of 135, against 1. The motion has been adopted and I am of the opinion that we have extended the deadline to discuss the committee by 20 days to 80. I will ask the rapporteur if we have dealt with everything at first reading under the proposal. Yes, so I'm done discussing item 42. We have four minutes before 2:00. The next item on the program is point number
