ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u1	145. Government bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by Act No. .../2022 Sb. The House Press 244/ - Shortened Act The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík. And I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let me justify for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports the proposed bill amending Act No. 67 of this year Collections on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine initiated by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, House print number 244. [[17.50 hours]] Original Law No. 67/2022 Coll., the so-called lex Ukraine, lays down special rules for the education of children of refugees from Ukraine. He responded to the immediate barriers to access to education in the Czech Republic at the time of the start of the migration crisis and therefore takes into account the state of things known in March. Already in the adoption of the law, the need to adopt follow-up legislation in the order of months, which takes account of current developments. Up to now, it has only been partly amended in terms of maternal and primary schools, within the framework of the Government's proposal for the Lex Act Ukraine II, which 31. 5. 2022 approved this House, but has not yet discussed the Senate. Therefore, the Ministry of Education is now presenting a larger amendment, in simple terms it is the Lex of Ukraine for Education II. The main points of this proposal are: the time limit for the possibility of disabling a pupil, a child refugee from Ukraine, from the school's registration when moving out of the Czech Republic without informing the school. There is a limit to school directors, they have priority to create mixed classes, and only if this is not possible can they establish a homogeneous class composed of Ukrajinec. After that, however, these children must be involved in mixed teaching. The power of the Ministry of Education to issue measures of a general nature adjusting the dates and time limits for the admission and termination of education for pupils from Ukraine in the following school year is enshrined. The range of data collected by the Ministry of Education on refugees from Ukraine is expanding and the possibility of their transmission to the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or the Labour Office is being anchored. The exemption from the requirement of knowledge of the Czech language of Ukrainian teachers is extended. It is possible for the school to provide education with a Czech teacher together with a teacher who knows Ukrainian, then only to the extent necessary for communicating with a Czech teacher. Such an educator will assist the integration of Ukrainian pupils. The effectiveness of the entire law is extended to the whole following school year by the end of August 2023. Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's draft law was directed, discussed it by the President's decision and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 244/1. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Stanislav Fridrich, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Afternoon, fellow Members, I will introduce you, as has been said here, to the resolution of the Education Committee, which was held this morning: "The 65th resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 13th meeting of 14 June 2022 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by the Act number - this will be supplemented - over 2022 Coll., House print 244. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports, Petr Gazdík and the report by Mr Stanislav Fridrich and after the debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to close its negotiations by no later than 15 June 2022 within 14 hours; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that, with a government bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, as amended by the Act..., the House press 244, agreed in the submitted text and V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u5	Thank you, too, and I will ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore now decide by vote whether we will hold a general debate. I'm gonna call my coworker and coworkers from the lobby. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. I will vote on whether we will now have a general debate. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 87, 162 Members of Parliament, for 119, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. I am opening a general debate and will be the first to speak with priority rights, Mr Kettner, who will present the opinion of the SPD's MP. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present the opinion of the SPD on the amendment under discussion. The amendment as a whole certainly brings benefits that do not cause us any problems. Unfortunately, there are certain moments that are causing us trouble. Some of these paragraphs are discriminatory from our point of view, ignoring the free will of both parents and children. Furthermore, they limit quite a lot - although it is said that it is the contrary that the powers of directors are expanding, so for us those powers will again be strictly defined and corrected, and that is clearly a restriction on the powers of those directors for us. For us, if the law had been passed in the form in which it was presented, there would have been a deterioration in the quality of teaching in primary schools and there would have been a reduction in the powers of directors who are able to address individual issues of individual schools and, as they say, do not need to hold hands. We, as a club, will put forward amendments. If these amendments are adopted, we will raise our hand for the law as such. If the amendments are not adopted, we will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u7	I thank you, too, and now, with the de facto remark of Mr Pavel Klíma, and then duly logged in to the general debate. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u8	I can't even exhaust them. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to reply to Mr Kettner, through Mr President. We've already told each other this morning on the committee, but I just have to say, as a former CEO, I'm reading the paragraphs you mentioned the other way around. The directors here are getting clear instructions on how to proceed. After all, we cannot ask the Ministry of Education to take a different view than the integration one, which is actually the purest and best in education. And second of all, as you've already learned, I'm going to repeat it here, the Ministry is ready. He's prepared to accompany the law with methodical interpretations, as the directors have been used to lately from the ministry, and I don't read anywhere what you're saying is discriminatory. The principal is still the gentleman, and we stand by that and trust the directors to do it and not need, as you say, to hold hands. But we're reading the same text with two different interpretations, so it's perfectly fine for me. The Director may continue to decide - that we want Ukrainian children to be primarily integrated into a homogeneous class rather than into a homogeneous class, but, as I say, when he has a situation in a given place, in a given location, he can arrange himself at his discretion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u9	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. From 18.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Vice-President Věra Kovářová apologizes and then on 14. 6. from 19 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Drahoslav Ryba apologizes for family reasons. Mr Ivo Vondrák and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear properly entered into the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u10	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I think the law, as it's presented, is fine. All right from the point of view that it really supports the integration of Ukrainian refugees' children into our society, it is addressed by the way of presentation teaching these children in our schools. However, I would like to draw attention to one important thing that I have already discussed in the morning on our committee, which is why I would like to present it now in the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, we implicitly assume the need for integration among all Ukrainian refugees, but also my experience, which I have on the issue of the management of the Ukrainian crisis and the refugee crisis in our region, is evidently a number of those - and it is not a small group, it is a relatively large group - who are planning to return to Ukraine. And here is the moment to resolve the issue of children of these refugees, whether it is necessary to write them on the presentation form of study, or to use what is already happening today, and that means that for many of these children there is distance teaching by Ukraine in their native language, in the context of where they have actually left their education and can follow it. This is a very important fact which, together with our colleague and rapporteur Mr Fridrich, has led us to table an amendment, and the amendment talks about what has been defined here under the Education Act for Ukraine, its amendment, extending us to build distance education guaranteed by Ukraine as an element of education that will be recognised precisely for those who do not plan to remain in this country who want to return. Why I think this is important: Today we have about, and unfortunately we are not able to verify exactly, 125 000 children who will basically be integrated or will have to be integrated into our kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools. That number is very large. I firmly believe that many of these children may already be back in Ukraine, however we are now going through the minutes, we went through the entries to secondary schools, there I would say that the impact is not something fundamentally large, but of course the impact on primary and kindergarten schools will be significant. He will, of course, be different from individual regions. I dare say that the worst thing that will be expected by the Central Bohemia Region and Prague is that these capacities are not really set up here, it will mean a rather significant intervention in expanding the capacity of schools and it will certainly not be free of charge. It is precisely the issue of distance education for parents who do not feel - please once again, it is up to them, those parents who want to stay here - that we offer an alternative to distance education for their children, so that we basically do not burden our schools, but, of course, give them the possible free will to basically return at the earliest opportunity. I agree that we do not know how long it will take, we do not know how long these people will want to stay here, but I think we should add this possibility of distance education to this law. I believe that this is supported by some kind of empire, I think it is also supported by the fact that today, a moment, we have children who walk in order of more than one-quarter of the children of Ukraine, the three-quarter is already undergoing distance education. So let's think about it, let's say that if we do not prepare a little improved conditions to ensure everyone's education, that is to say, those who want to be educated on a stand-alone basis, even those who want to be educated on a distance basis. So please, this is all on my part, and I will then return to this in detail in the debate, to this amendment, and I claim that this is helping our education, not a complication to our education. And believe me, it's coming from the empire we have. The groups of those who want to stay here, and those who want to leave, are here and more and more stand out. Thank you for your understanding and I firmly believe that you will all support me in this with my colleague Fridrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u11	Thank you. Mr David Šimek is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u12	Thank you. I will take the liberty of responding to the performance of my colleague Vondrák. I don't quite agree with that opinion. It is true that today we have 125 000 children who are not in the school stream, on the other hand it must be said that 90 days of stay in the Czech Republic is not an obligation for these children to apply to school, so many of them have used the process of adaptation groups. It should also be said that they are not in school because the Ukrainian school year ended at the end of May. Today they basically have summer holidays in Ukraine, and therefore a lot of the children who came here finished the classic school year in the form of distance teaching that ended them. According to European legislation, where it is clearly stated that all refugees who have come here in the Czech Republic have received the same rules in the field of health, employment, so the same rules apply to them as for citizens of the Czech Republic, that is to say compulsory education, and that is why they have to enter the education stream in the Czech Republic from September onwards. The advantage is that Ukraine in covid, unlike the Czech Republic, was significantly better and prepared quality educational programs that enable children to be able to learn distance teaching in Ukraine even during the evening. They can take advantage of this in the next year too, and if the school in Ukraine wants to continue the educational stream and continue teaching in Ukraine, children will be able - apart from individual education at the Czech school - to take part in distance education at the Ukrainian school, there is nothing stopping them from doing so, and the principal of the primary school, thanks to the individual setting of the educational programme, can set the conditions for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u13	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u14	Thank you. That's the logical argument, I never said we didn't want compulsory education. We had months here when our children were educated through distance teaching. I don't see here because we have a common interest, I don't see why we wouldn't systemize this point into the bill, which doesn't contradict anything. He's basically just saying that it's a legitimate way for these kids to learn. [[18.10 hours]] I think it is also about the agreement, and I firmly believe that this agreement will take place between the Minister of Education of the Czech Republic and the Minister of Education of Ukraine, as many adjustments have been made from the point of view of those who are doctors so that they can work with us, so basically there are ways that they can work and work with us, so here we have the opportunity to use this path to offer it. And I say again, we don't want to force all the refugees to integrate their children when they plan to return home. We don't want that, do we? I think that we are a free country, and basically it's about finding alternatives so that the obligation to teach is ensured, but to basically prevent it. So that's the reason, there's the simple paragraph, which, of course, defines the conditions to fill it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u15	Thank you, too. Now with a point of fact, Minister Petr Gazdík. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u16	I just really want to assure my fellow Members that we are talking to the Ukrainian side. The Ukrainian party is aware of this and is actually identified with it that we will try our best to integrate children into Czech schools. What they are demanding is precisely the option that Mr Šimek spoke about in order for there to be some possibility of distance education, which, yes, there are many possibilities in the law as well. They also ask for access to schools on Saturday, where Ukrajinec would have some teaching together, if their parents were interested. That's what we're discussing now, the techniques and the logistics of such a move. There's no problem there. I just have to point out once again that in the event that this distance form should replace access to Czech schools overall, so unfortunately at this stage - since we do not have information as to how long the conflict will last, it contradicts, and I will continue to talk about it, to international law - I cannot accept it at this time, because if I knew that the conflict would last three months or half a year, calmly. But he can take a year, two, five years, no one knows. And in that case, the distance form... Remember how many times in this House we discussed how Czech children suffered in covid, in the education of distance form, how this prevented their social contacts and the consequences. As Minister of Education, I cannot identify with the fact that Ukrainian children are somewhere outside other Czech children, where they have been distancely educated, did not meet them, and should take place in the long term. This would have serious social consequences, and I cannot agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u17	Thank you. We are now discussing this in the form of factual remarks. I'm just gonna read an apology. Today, President Michálek apologizes for personal reasons from 18.30 to the end of the day. I am now recording two factual points - the first Mr Marek Výborný, then Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. By your means, on the proposal that President Vondrák here spoke of, let us try to separate these things, too. Of course, if there is a student from Ukraine who is studying in high school in Ukraine, of course he is not in the compulsory schooling regime. He can normally educate himself on his own in the Czech Republic, because he will remain connected to the Ukrainian school. However, the moment we put it into the law of lex Ukraine, we will quite fundamentally burden our directors, our teachers. There is a difference in distance education for our Czech pupils and there is a difference in distance education for Ukrainian pupils, the question of knowledge of school educational programs and so on. So I would really rather intercede for leaving it on the form, on the basis of which my colleague David Šimek spoke, that means that the director obviously has the possibility through an individual educational plan, but not to put it as a separate paragraph into this law, because by doing so we could do far more harm than benefit itself. And it's not that they have to be fully integrated into the Czech school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u19	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák, Mr Josef Bělica after him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u20	I am sorry to have to use the professor's saying: You have made a mistake, Mr Member, through the President. I am not talking about distance teaching organized by our schools, I am talking about distance teaching organized by the Ukrainian side. In other words, it can't even burden our principal. There is only one point that we want the registered person to bring a letter to the director - and I think we can give that confidence to the person concerned because I do not believe that the parents who have fled here will be interested in not training their children - to provide confirmation that they are taking part in this distance education, and the assumption is that every six months they will present the results of their studies in order to prove that this is taking place. So I understand. It is basically a thing that, once again, does nothing but expand the possibilities of the current amendment of the law. And I just want to avoid one thing that can wait and be very problematic, and that is precisely the expansion of capacity, because if the 125 000 children really are here, essentially the absorption of these children in regions that are actually burdened - and luckily I can say for our region that this is not the case, because our region is in this relatively, let's say, a good situation, even if there are definitely districts where the situation can be tense - so of course we will be grateful that we can offer these children an alternative and basically we will not get into a critical situation that will be the same, a segreged class will be created just for Ukrainian children - in that good sense, so that someone doesn't take it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u21	Thank you. Mr Josef Bělica, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, followed by another comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u22	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would only briefly be practical in this regard. It is generally with Ukrajinec, with overwhelming majority, in integration and in cooperation, no problem, as my previous speaker said here. It's really probably the capacity. On the other hand, the extension of an alternative to distance education by Ukraine can really help the system and make it possible to contact the home school once every six months in the form of a statement, which I think is appropriate. And for the next thing, it's not like those kids are - and compare it to the covid period - when they'll be without social contact. These kids are very well involved in extracurricular activities within the community, within the city, so there's no danger of these things. I think it's all about allowing education at Ukrainian school remotely after some kind of verification that this paragraph contains. It seems reasonable to me, and if it makes it easier for school capacities, because it is not quite easy to get teachers' assistants, to get educators who will speak Ukrainian, and generally the quality of pupils in given schools is at a rather good level, at least in our country it is, from schools where pupils of comparable age are involved, so it is not that there are some fundamental differences in the quality of education, on the contrary, the Ukrainian education system was probably not so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u23	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I don't deal with education, but I'll talk from practice. Since 9 March I have a Ukrainian family and a nine-year-old girl who came to our school has never been there because Ukrainian education allows her to have distance and online teaching. She came to us and learned the month on-line remotely. It wasn't until her mother learned that she might be affected, that she had to be enrolled in education, so we went to school, and now she's going to school. She's not in fourth grade, but third grade, but she's really showing us the certificate that came from Ukrainian school by finishing her fourth grade. So I think they want to go back as soon as there's no shooting at Odessa, but she's really never been to school. And I think, as my colleague Vondrák says, if that opportunity were there for some of the children that parents don't want to put in school, let them have it as they used to in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u25	Thank you. I have a number of other factual points here. Now, then, Mrs Jana Berkovcová, then President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say, please, let us not underestimate the importance and the number of pupils who are educated in distance, nor the importance of distance education with the Ukrainian side. It is also said from the regions that - we already know this, we do not know the exact number of those who are educated remotely, but can be assumed and there is a high probability that two-thirds to three-quarters of pupils who have not yet entered schools are educated remotely with the Ukrainian school. And it's for parents who have the vision that they're actually coming back. It's very important to them and even from the regions it sounds or there are signals that they want to continue the distance teaching. [[18.20 hours]] This means that even if they are forced to enter the school from September onwards, they do not want to give up distance teaching with the Ukrainian school, they want to continue it. But then let's imagine, yes, that they will perform distance lessons in the evenings or after Saturdays or combine it during the day. It will lead to the fact that the children will be overloaded, and if they have to cheat or neglect something, then it will be the Czech teaching according to the Czech educational programme. Of course, it is clear that these children cannot hang somewhere outside our school education system, they must be registered, registered here in Bohemia at tribal school, where they report to the school principals that they will be educated remotely, and they will actually follow our legal standards as individual home schooling. And if the director, who will continuously control them as their teaching takes place, concludes that distance learning does not work, he has the right to cancel this instruction at any time and the child will normally return to the Czech class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u27	Thank you, too. Now, with a factual remark, President Marek Výborný and Mr David Šimek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u28	Thank you. I don't want to continue this debate, I think we all understand each other. About what my colleague said through you. I'm sure the proposal, as written by the Ministry of Education, doesn't want or allows, allows the school principal to combine this distance teaching in any way possible by deciding on an individual curriculum. On the other hand, let us remember that, on the one hand, the Ukrainian child needs some social contacts and social ties. The extracurricular activity that we've been talking about here can, of course, be partly replaced, but certainly not fully. Well, that's the first thing. The second thing, let's also remember, is that it's our concern for those moms to go to work. And in that case, that is why we want these children to integrate into Czech schools, so that we can allow those mothers, women to go into employment, because that is of course also beneficial for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Kettner with a point of fact, Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u30	Thank you. I'm just making a point about what fell out of the Minister's mouth about distance teaching. I'll sign under it, which means distance learning can never replace personal contact with a teacher. Unfortunately, I have to turn against the comparison. What our parents experienced as a covide is one big difference. Czech parents were not free to choose whether to be distanced or represented, while we are talking about volunteering to choose the distance teaching. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Ivo Vondrák will now prepare Mr Josef Bělica. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u32	Thank you. And that's exactly what I wanted to say, those moms have a choice of path. If they want children to go to school, they can do so. But in our region, we already clearly have groups of Ukrainian refugees who do not leave the hostels in which they live, keeping their community because they basically assume that they will return at the first opportunity. That means those kids aren't in social isolation, those kids can even learn there together. But as I say, I am opening up a free opportunity to choose this path and continue it, because otherwise, if it is not there, we basically say to all refugees in the Czech Republic: You have a duty to integrate your children into Czech society. And that's what I think we should be very careful about with this, because I also see the need of Ukraine, that, of course, she is looking forward to these people coming back and working on, say, what we would call the reconstruction of that devastated country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u33	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Josef Bělica, Mr. Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would just briefly sum up what was said here or, respectively, comment on what I forgot about the first comment I had towards the Minister. This isn't about how long the conflict is going to last, in this relationship, because some parents and these kids can come back, even if there is still a conflict, because maybe they'll already consider it appropriate that maybe the area they come from is safe, yes, and I'd really like to let them have that choice. And towards the President Excellent: integration and cooperation with refugees, with those mothers is very good. They mostly work very well together, engage in the work process, create groups where one of them stays at home with a few children so that the others can go to work, so there are no problems with them in this regard. And I would argue too much that we accept this amendment, that we really leave them the choice and that we really let them choose the distance form of study from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u35	Thank you, too. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Kobza will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good evening. I would like to follow up on what has been said from the point of view of the experience that we discussed in the migration committee of the Council of Europe plenary meeting three years ago, four years ago, when it was a migration wave coming from Africa and the Middle East. We have solved exactly the same question, that is, the question of children's integration, the question of schools for these children, and we have encountered one problem, because some groups from orthodox to dogmatic Muslim circles, they directly rejected integration as such and insisted on teaching the children themselves that they would create their own diasporas, but in that case they remained in their own microworld without having any interaction with the democratic environment they came into. So I would just ask for some caution not to actually happen to what has been said here - they don't leave their hostels, they stay among themselves - that's the way to create those closed enclaves, closed companies, and mostly, according to what we saw in Western Europe, it doesn't end well. So I just wanted to point this out and share this experience with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u37	Thank you, too. So we will now go to the properly signed speakers, Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be the first to speak and Mr Jan Berki will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'm here more often than I expected. I would like to clarify my amendment, which we will vote on later. I'd like to explain it a little deeper. For example, this proposal extends the powers of directors. When I look at the terms used, the freedom of choice doesn't correspond to me. There are words here - "preferably, it can" but only "the director is obliged and the director will be included." These are completely directive orders for me, which, if there were - can, has, and so on - I take it that will leave a wider scope. If it's formulated in this way, for me it's simply restraint and command. As it is formulated, the first paragraph already places foreigners in the classrooms for me. I know what that means. Unfortunately, the wording, as it is written, allows for a broader interpretation, and unfortunately, the wording may be regarded as discriminatory in a certain way, as a preference for one group over another. That is why I would choose a slightly different wording, which will be in our amendment, or I would put it a little differently. It's just an unacceptable principle for me as it's mentioned there. Further, as I said, it completely ignores the free will and wishes of those concerned parents, and it really seems to me to be violent integration regardless of free will. [[18.30 hours]] And, as I was saying, those certain responsibilities that were imposed on directors - I was told that, of course, the Czech School Inspectorate was informed or consulted in some way, that, of course, they would, as they say, be helpful, considerate, but I am not entirely sure. That means we can't speak for every single inspector. I can speak from personal experience, when the Czech School Inspectorate came to check the integration of pupils in primary schools, came to the English language course. There were Ukrainian children who did not speak Czech at all, English very, very miserable. The teacher took care of them because she's a professional, of course. Unfortunately, because he doesn't have an assistant, it is then at the expense of the overall quality of teaching. Of course, she copied their worksheets, gave them a textbook. In fact, the only thing that the inspector was interested in, how is it that Ukrainian children do not have enough teaching materials, based on the fact that the two Ukrainian children have only one textbook at their disposal. If she looked around properly, she would find out that even Czech children have one textbook for a couple. The reason is perfectly simple. The underfinancing of education is that the school just doesn't have the power to buy enough textbooks. That means yes, if it were really so that school inspection will be basically helpful and sensible, yes, but I don't have that feeling. For me, therefore, directors will literally follow the commands given, so as to avoid any problems. This means that this is my summary and the justification for our amendment, which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u39	Thank you. I wish you a nice evening. Mr Berki will follow in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to sum up a few things. I find it most unfortunate in this discussion that we always pull out individual provisions and do not read it all in context. The whole amendment is that it extends some institutes, for example, an exception to the overall capacity, and also extends the exemption from the requirements of the individual classes where it is taught. That's one of the things. The second thing; when we look at the word "preferably," the whole sentence is: "Director of kindergarten, primary school or secondary school, conservatory or school group places foreigners first into classes or departments which are not exclusively composed of foreigners." So your other interpretation seems pretty weird to me, and it's always necessary to read the whole paragraph, which means not just a paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 which then regulates when it can establish the homogeneous group. In other words, the context clearly indicates that this is a preferred option, if possible. Another thing is to discuss online teaching. In principle, once again, when we look at the whole context, he is already at this point, and this is being extended again, giving the director the opportunity to give an exception to the implementation of the framework education programmes for basic education. In other words, the director can make the mix without this paragraph because he will be in his discretion after consulting the parent logically and at the same time with his school's options, to what extent the educational program will actually tailor the student. And that's what I think is precisely the degree of freedom of the director that colleagues have been talking about. The individual sections together give him the opportunity, in agreement with the parent, to make a proper mix or a proper educational process for the child.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u41	Thank you for your performance. Mr Klíma came forward with a point of fact. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u42	Thank you for the floor. I have already been logged in in response to my colleague Kettner, so since I came after my colleague Berki, actually half of the factual comment is answered, yet I will not forgive myself. Mr colleague, through Mr President, if it is written somewhere that it will put the participants of a foreigner first into classes, we do not read there that this would be a priority in front of Czech pupils. This is your misinterpretation, and I have to resist it. And then, if - you said so in the morning - if you argue and generalize underfinancing and prove underfinancing of Czech education, that in some of your schools or somewhere your children have one English textbook, and you are doing here an image of Czech schools, that is exactly what I have to look for. Because I stand by it, I say it in all seriousness, Czech schools are not poorly equipped at all, go for a ride around Europe. The materials for teaching foreign languages are among the best in primary school. That's what I stand for, and I'm gonna keep spreading this picture here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u43	Thank you for keeping the time, another one with a point of fact is signed in by Mrs Zajíčková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u44	I will only have a really short factual remark for colleagues, so that they have a better idea of what they mean under distance instruction that takes place in Ukraine. It is not happening as we were used to here in the Czech Republic, when the teacher had contact, interaction, connection to his particular class. Here distance learning in Ukraine takes place all over the country, that is to say something of the way of our TeachingTeles, where there is a Ukrainian national school, a platform where there are various video courses, there are various tests, there are subjects being staged into some chapters, but there is no interaction between teacher and child in most cases. So it's just for colleagues to know that distance learning in Ukraine is actually in a completely different regime than it was in our country, where the interaction was going much more intensely and it was on a personal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u45	Thank you very much. We are still in a general debate which, however, no one is signed up for. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in joining the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking for any final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u46	I'll try as briefly as possible. I'll start with my colleague Vondrák's proposal. I will try to say three reasons why the legislation of the Ministry of Education does not support the adoption of this proposal. Firstly, these are international commitments of the Czech Republic and state control. The State has an internationally valid obligation to provide compulsory basic education, which provides, inter alia, for the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And unfortunately, the proposed method of implementation would not, according to the Ministry's legislation, fulfil the obligations of the state. Czech administrative regulations already allow compulsory school attendance in the Czech Republic in other ways, both for Czech citizens and foreigners. In principle, there are three in the Czech primary school or the multi-annual grammar school, in the foreign school in the Czech Republic with the permission of the Ministry, where the Czech Republic can control personnel or material security, the contradiction of the content of teaching with the Czech law, i.e. to check the basic parameters of teaching, which, as my previous speaker Mrs Zajíčková indicated, in the form of teaching which Ukraine is running today, is unfortunately not ensured, and the third form is individual education. These three forms, including individual education, will be available to Ukrainian pupils. The second reason why we cannot agree with this proposal as a Ministry is not fulfilling the integration process. I would like to point out that capacity, except for local problems, is sufficient. There are 153,000 vacancies in primary schools. Yes, the problem is really in Prague, rings around Prague and somewhere local. Overall, out of the 135 000, where there are also pupils of secondary schools, there is a problem for about 5 000 places in schools, locally especially in Prague, rings around Prague places, in České Budějovice, Pilsen, Brno. There is no reason to think about alternative ways of education at the moment. [[18.40 hours]] Yes, I admit that there may be another war, it may escalate, we can have so many children here once in a while, and we can perhaps go back to the amendment sometime in the future, because we simply have nothing else left, but at this stage we are not really there yet, even though, of course, on September 1st, there may be a problem in some school, specifically those 5,000 places, but precisely because we are already approving the law today, precisely because there are entries until July 15th, the directors have sufficient space and we monitor, we have online capacity, we will find out and try to solve it by September 1st, so that the problems are actually as little as possible. Allowing compulsory schooling in the form of participation in distance education would also bring some negative phenomena, and there would not be an integration process for children. Distance education is not as effective as it is for the present, Ukrainian children, which I have already told you would be at risk of social isolation and a high risk of the absence of any education of Ukrainian children due to the impossibility of controlling their education. I will not mention the shortcomings of the amendment itself here, I will be happy to introduce my colleagues to them. The second amendment tabled by Mr Kettner, there I regret to inform you of the shortcomings of the amendment, because the Ministry's legislation tells me that the amendment has serious defects by being internally contradictory. The adoption of the amendment would mean undesirable legal uncertainty for school directors who did not know whether they could or could not establish a homogeneous class. This is one of the most serious reservations of the Ministry. And now for the contradiction. Point 1 of the proposal lays down the obligation of the school director to always include Ukrajinec foreigners in mixed classes, so Ukrajinec cannot be classified in homogeneous classes. This is what will happen by releasing that one word Mr Kettner says. However, point 2 also allows school directors to establish homogeneous classes. There is no need to meet any conditions to establish a homogeneous class. It's an internal conflict. Therefore, points 1 and 2 cannot be applied at the same time because they are against each other and are in contradiction with each other. It is pointless for the director to establish a homogeneous class composed of Ukrajinec foreigners in quotation marks, but he could not include any foreigner Ukrajinec in it. Nor can the interpretation of the legislative text of the amendment give rise to the legal form of the amendment. Therefore, I apologise, but I cannot agree with this amendment because it has serious defects and internal contradictions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u47	Thank you. That was the Minister's final word. I will now ask the rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u48	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to try to be very brief, too, because the discussion was extensive, and basically everything here has been said, so I'm just going to go back to a few points. But I would like to start by stressing that the debate has probably shown that the bill is necessary and necessary. What I would like to stress is that the most discussed standard is the amendment tabled here by my colleague, Ivo Vondrák. Overall, it was mentioned to replace the presentation study with a distance study. No, it's not like that. It's just an open road, it's a possibility, it's a directive. It's not a directive for the parents. They can decide on their own whether they want to put the kids on distance or attendance. I would only have two brief comments on the comments made by the Minister here. The first is - international commitments, it contradicts, and the second breath has been said - maybe we'll get back to it. Does that mean that it won't be breaking those international commitments in the future? And the second thing is integration. Yes, I agree with integration, but is integration at all costs? A lot of these kids and parents want to come back, and we don't know when. So this is actually where the road opens, we don't want to integrate everyone, it's an option. And one of the motives of the amendment was also to save money that would have to be spent on the integration of pupils who would never enter those schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u49	Thank you. That was the final word of the rapporteur, and I am opening up a detailed debate in which Mr Vondrák is the first to be joined. I recall that the amendments made in the detailed debate must always be justified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u50	So one more good evening, I won't delay, I think it's all been said. It is for the free will of all of us Members to sign up to this amendment or not. I'll just say it's House document 912, which means it's stored in the system. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u51	Yes, thank you. Another one for the detailed debate is Mr Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u52	Yes, I'm signing up for Amendment 916.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-002-145.u53	Yes, thank you. No one else is entered into a detailed debate. I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words at this point in time on the part of the plaintiff or rapporteur? It's not like that. I therefore conclude the detailed debate and, at the same time, end the second reading of this proposal and interrupt item 145. Before we proceed to questioning paragraph 146, I will read one apology. Mr. Jiří Mašek apologizes this week from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies since 14. 6. to 17. 6. for health reasons. [[A brief agreement of legislation with the President.]] I will ask if the previous press is interested in the multiplication of the amendments? There are only two, the legislation asks whether there is interest in the multiplication of the amendments or not? Madam President here has the floor, he says there's no need, we'll save the paper. [[Miss Schiller.]] Well, thank you. This was a clarification for legislation. And we can go to point number
