ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 335/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, that is to say the Energy Act, as amended, the House Press 335, in the shortened negotiations, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 4 were to assess whether the conditions for the examination of the said law were in the shortened course of action. I am opening a debate on this. Madam President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would like to see Minister Šalomoun here - am I saying this well?, I would not like to confuse your name - and I would like him to defend himself here before the Chamber of Deputies before we vote on the grounds for discussing this law in a state of legislative emergency, because I personally have doubts about it. When I look at the conditions under which we can discuss a specific law in a state of legislative emergency, it is given quite strictly - the prevention of threats or violations of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state, or the prevention of the threat of significant economic damage to the state. And we are adopting a key law here in a few days, which is supposed to bring it to us in a non-standard way, and we are going to talk about how much, because these numbers are very variable - but they are going to bring tens of billions of crowns next to the windfall tax, and I do not see the reasons for discussing the state of legislative emergency. We have already adopted a special-profit tax law in a non-standard way here, and this five-calice practice continues again. We don't like it. I think that we have repeatedly shown the utmost willingness to offer shorter deadlines to offer conditions so that they can be approved at some time, although we think that five-wheelers have wasted a lot of time, and we are once again faced with the fact that we are faced with a problem where it does not go through a short notice procedure where there is no standard committee procedure. Thank you once again to the President of the Committee on Budgets for calling the extraordinary Committee on this contribution at my request, but I have even more questions than I have received answers. I will apply this later in the debate. But I think that the conditions are not set here, and I would like Minister Šalomoun to explain them to us, because the YES movement will consider, according to this explanation, whether it will vote in favour of a legislative emergency or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u3	Thank you. Mr Vondráček is also reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, it is not my concern to have a long talk here on the subject of legislative emergency, because most of you are prepared to debate the content of this law, however, I would like to follow up on our President's speech, because I also believe that material conditions are not fulfilled in order to approve this law in a state of legislative emergency, which, as a result, can create the unconstitutionality of those parts added to the Energy Act, in order to conflict with Art. 1 of the Constitution, which states that the Czech Republic is a democratic rule of law, for conflict with Art. Article 2 (1) (a) The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Article 2 (1) (a) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 6 (6) of the Constitution, which provides that majority decisions are to be taken into account in the protection of the minority, Article 6 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 1 The Charter, according to which citizens have the right to participate in governance through their representatives - Members - and this implies the right of Members to exercise their mandate in governance, i.e. to participate in the approval of the law in a proper, legally regulated process, because the obligation of the law procedure is also a constitutional principle. [[9.20 hours]] I took this comment here on the Rules of Procedure, the author of which is the author's collective under the direction of Dr. Syllová. I'm sure you all know him. You've got him well-trained. Many of you have him on their nightstands. So those who have it in front of them, please turn to page 551 and you can watch today. From the interpretation of § 99 para. 1, which is that "a legislative emergency is possible only in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State are significantly threatened, or when there is serious economic damage to the State" - in which case an emergency situation may be declared. And I continue: "The textual interpretation shows that the condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is the existence of one of these exceptional circumstances. It is a prerequisite for declaring an exceptional situation where any threat of negative consequences cannot be considered' - I refer now to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - 'but only a circumstance which is clearly out of the ordinary course of external and internal political processes, or may be a circumstance which constitutes natural disasters and whose type seriousness must be comparable to the seriousness of the situations referred to in the Constitutional Security Act. As can be seen from the constitutional finding number 55/10, the announcement of a state of legislative emergency due to major economic damage is necessary to accept the seriousness measured in relation to the constitutional law on security. At the same time, the security of the state or the rights and freedoms of citizens must be significantly threatened. This applies in particular to situations where a decision on the use of a state of legislative emergency has not been reached consensually or at least by a majority necessary for the adoption of a constitutional law. Otherwise, the criteria of the Constitutional Court are milder." So many quotes from the book. Now, about a few facts. The state of legislative emergency was declared standard by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] It's this decision number 46. [[Mr Vondráček shows the plenary of the abovementioned decision. From the diaper there are comments: We do not hear. Mr Vondráček therefore turns to the President.]] Mr Vice-President, I'm having a hard time talking about noise, I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u5	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down in the hall and possibly transfer your discussions to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u6	So, ladies and gentlemen, even you who don't care, who don't know, this is the decision of the President of the House. [[Mr Vondráček shows the plenary decision 46.]] There's no justification, which I won't dispute, because that's standard procedure. But there's no talk of reasons for a legislative emergency here. Then I'll take the law. In this law, I would like to draw your attention to point 12 of the explanatory memorandum, where there is only one sentence that I have checked here, and I will read it: "In this case, such an accelerated regime can be considered to be defendable, as there is an exceptional circumstance, a parentheses: an energy crisis requiring a coordinated solution and a significant economic damage, a parentheses, could not be recovered and subsequent redistribution of funds in the order of billions of Czech crowns." [[Member shows plenary law]] [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Someone told me verbally that there might still be a letter from the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister explaining why she wanted an emergency. I couldn't find that in public space. If it exists, I would ask whether anyone from the coalition would be able to present it, or preferably the Prime Minister, if he explained the reasons for the state of legislative emergency. It says here that this must be a time-coordinated solution. [[Prime Minister Fiala discusses his back to the speaker's counter with Mr Benda.]] I'd like to ask the Prime Minister what this is supposed to be coordinated with. With the MP's proposal that you submitted at second reading on the windfall tax? The one we just disagree with, and did our Madam President say so? Well, I'll tell the Prime Minister again in the debate. Is this really such an unexpected and surprising event that we need to continue the state of legislative emergency when we know that the problem has existed since March, and at the end of February, people were here and they were talking about a temporary crisis framework and asked for an accelerated solution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you once again to keep your voice down so that the Member can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u8	I ask the Prime Minister again, what is this supposed to be coordinated with, if this parliamentary proposal at second reading, for which the coalition did not actually know what to vote for the night before the third reading, and how will it all turn out? Is that what the government's coordinating with? And another question. So what damage will be done to the state if we have a proper legislative process if we have that law a month later? I want to hear the answer to the question of what the damage is. So how much less will the state choose, and if it withdraws less, the money is to be spent on compensation? Is there any idea how much it's supposed to be? And in that case, would the damage be in the interest that the State would pay for paying the funds elsewhere? Or what's the damage if the state chooses less? I'm really interested in some quantification, Minister. [[Mr Vondráček turns to the government bench for Minister Síkel]] You look at me unbelievably - I don't think it's hostile, but did someone calculate the damage, and she has to be extraordinary to justify the state of legislative emergency? I'm telling you this as a lawyer. And there wasn't a single amount, and what the damage is if we had first reading, second reading, and third reading, just the way it's supposed to be. In addition, I will read a piece of the constitutional finding to you: "The announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the negotiation of a draft law in a shortened act fundamentally changes the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance to the very expression of consent or disapproval. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool to limit parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the draft law and to prevent or delay its adoption by the Rules of Procedure.' Now, I will be happy to have at least the answers to those basic questions: what is the damage, how great it would be, what is the coordination and what you are coordinating with and how it is possible that circumstances are so surprising and sudden that there is a need to proceed in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u9	So, the next one will be in the debate, Mrs Válková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll keep going. He has drawn it very clearly by your colleague, Mr Vondráček, our doubts. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] After all, we experienced a number of situations during the pandemic, where we were in such an unpleasant state, when we knew that criticism would be heard from you, partly justified, and also then it turned out in the decisions of the administrative courts that this criticism was indeed justified, and it was directed precisely against what you are certainly doing out of a certain lack of experience with legislative need and the need to explain in detail why you are asking for it, to grant our consent as Parliament to speedy rather than thorough deliberation of laws. And that should be very clear here. So, based on our experience, we are pointing out, and I fear that the Prime Minister, through you - although I would not have to say this, I say this with respect to him, Mr Vice-President - at the time when my colleague here stressed the need for answers to specific questions, was involved in an interview with Mr President of the MP's club, Mr Benda, through you, so he could probably not follow up on specific questions, so I will repeat them once again. We are particularly concerned about how and how you have come to see a great deal of damage here, which would be so great that if something like this were to be found in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court would then say that it was okay, that it was proportional that the principle of proportionality was maintained. [[9.30 hours]] At the same time, we would certainly be interested to know the detailed reasoning that is missing, because I also follow the issue, I looked for it in public sources, I did not find it as much as my colleague Ondráček did yesterday. No wonder it was a memorable day. Probably not just you, but we were in charge of other things. However, now it is a normal working day and the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, the findings, the caselaw, all of this tells us quite clearly what and how it must be justified when a part of the Members, the President formally, are behind them, of course, the coalition, the majority Members, is behind them, about declaring a state of legislative emergency. In my opinion, it could be justified, here I may be a little bit... or maybe some of the ANO colleagues won't agree with me, but they would have to do so very thoroughly, and even on the basis of the decisions we faced at the time of the government, at the time of the pandemic. And that these court decisions have ever surprised us, I'm sure I don't have to stress that. So I would like to call on you to learn from our mistakes and not repeat them. In addition, in a way that you serve directly that the decision will not stand up in a possible judicial review. So it was my appeal. I also join in what I would not like to repeat, the list of those questions and delay the negotiations on the energy law that Mr Vondráček has presented here, and which he will, if necessary, hand back to the Prime Minister, who will certainly be focusing on the answer now, or I assume one of his team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u11	The next speech will be made by Minister Šalomoun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u12	Mr President, honourable Members. I believe that although this government bill was in a hurry to prepare it, it was, however, a very shortcut, but a commentary procedure took place. Nor did government legislation detect that this proposal did not meet the conditions of legislative emergency. If you're asking about any of these possibilities, I think it's really the possibility that the state is facing considerable economic damage, and the proposal needs to be seen in context. In the context that if energy prices went down so that the market basically stopped working, we shut it down more or less by putting energy prices down, and of course it would cost considerable money to help citizens, households, businesses, more or less all, when the costs are estimated to be about 100 billion, it would take more or less any opportunity to get some money to do so. After all, we took over the government at a time when the granaries were not filled and there are two options: either our children will pay if we want to help households and businesses now, or those who made some money on it could contribute to it. And if we didn't do this in this way, of course, it's all on a bigger debt than it would have to be. And, of course, put into context, it is also necessary to look at the legal situation in Europe, where there is an intervention regulation of the Council, which came out on 6 October 2022, which directly obliges these solidarity contributions to be introduced by 31 December 2022. So that we don't have to have a debate here on retroactivity, even though I'm ready for it, but I know that some of you really have a problem setting something back, which I understand, so to prevent this, the regime must have been adapted to that. That's why the short notice procedure, and that's why the motion to discuss the proposal is in a state of legislative emergency. This is true because the State is threatened with considerable economic damage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u13	Thank you. Does anyone else report for this debate? A colleague of Vondráček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. The point is, if you want to discuss something in a state of legislative emergency, at least the decision should be reviewed if it is ever the subject of a dispute before the Constitutional Court. How can it be reviewed if we don't know the data? The minister answered me, we don't think so. [[Unintelligible.]] You have a different opinion, I understand, but this land deserves concrete answers, because that political confrontation in the Chamber of Deputies is the essence of political competition between political parties in the Czech Republic, and it is indeed the basis of the whole and constitutional principle. Parliamentary debate is important for the adoption of every law and constitutional finding, such as the 53/10 that I refer to, I stress that an inseparable component is being fulfilled, which is the duty of the majority to ensure the protection of minorities in the adoption of political decisions. This is Article 6 of the Constitution. In the case of legislative procedure, this protection applies to the position of the parliamentary opposition. My objection is legal, but if you want to answer it, you must answer me economically, what the damage is, what we are talking about. Then you say it's necessary and it's urgent because you're coordinating. I asked you what? With the windfall tax proposal or something? That doesn't come from the explanatory note. Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u15	Anyone else reporting for the debate? Minister Síkela. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u16	Mr President, Madam, Members. I would like to emphasise once again that this is an adaptation amendment to the Council of the European Union regulation of 6 October 2022. Of 6 October 2022, this means that the Council has adopted, at our request, on our initiative in cooperation with other Member States, a pan-European solution which results from the name of this... legislative material. And that it addresses high energy prices and sets a ceiling for disproportionate market revenues from electricity sales and that this is an intervention in an exceptional market situation. And why is the Council's regulation to be adapted until December 1, 2022? When does direct applicability occur? On 1 December 2022, the direct applicability of its part is due to the so-called ceiling on market income and the distribution of excess income and surplus income to end-users of electricity. For this reason, it is also proposed to submit a draft law in the regime of legislative emergency. If there is no timely adaptation, there is a threat of damage to the state, and the damage can be calculated fairly easily. If we say that we expect a yield of about 80 billion from these contributions, there will also be a reduction in the tax base for extraordinary or unexpected profits, and if this bill is to be in force by the end of the next flow, then 80 billion if I just divide by 12, then it seems to me that if we want to avoid retroactivity, every month of delay will cost us 7 billion crowns. [[9.40 hours]] Whether this is extraordinary, the threat of extreme damage or not, I'll leave it to the lawyers. But in the current situation, I think it's kind of - it's extraordinary sums. And since this is the basis for us to have a ceiling, because that is actually the whole bill, and that is why the regulation of the Council of the European Union came into existence, we just need to have it by 1. 12. actually approved and in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u17	I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? Mr. Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u18	I just want to say very briefly and thank you for saying something here, because I'm asking why it's not in the justification of the law, why isn't it written there? The second question is, how long have you known this was really so surprising and unexpected? So what would happen if we measured it, if you acted as you did? I'm sure the opposition would agree to a maximum reduction in deadlines. We've always been open to it, like it was the law this week, after all. Yet we were not allowed to do so. And really realize that the process of a state of legislative emergency should be exceptional, and the way you treat it devalues it. Directly in the comment you have at your disposal, it says that the issue of economic damage may be relative, and there is even a quote from Mr Sobotka's 2010 speech when it comes to budget cuts. So I'm just reminding you for this reason to realize that these things really should be justified. So what happens? Now the Minister will at least try to explain it to us if it doesn't make it to 1. 12. It's the first time I've heard it from him. That was supposed to be in the report to the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u19	Next up, Minister Síkela, who wants to respond. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u20	We're spinning around here, not listening to each other. The Council Regulation was adopted on 6 October. We have tried to amend the energy law at the maximum, within a short time, so that, on the one hand, we respect the Council's regulations and, on the other hand, to accomplish these things - I will get to that in my introductory speech - which the Council's regulations do not talk about. But one thing is clear. According to the European regulation, we must apply the contributions from producers, and if we are unable to apply the contributions already in December, the state will lose an estimated CZK 7 billion per month. Maybe CZK 7 billion a month isn't a lot of money for you, but for us, the coalition of the government, it's a very significant amount. If a ceiling of EUR 180 per megawatt hour, as provided for in the Council Regulation, were applied, certain sources, such as coal plants or biogas stations, would cease to produce in order to avoid losses. As a result, the energy deficit in the market would grow and the price would rise. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u21	Mr. králíček is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u22	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I really like the way Minister Síkela is late with something and is still trying to abuse the Institute of Legislative Emergency. I mean, you guys do whatever you want. Data clipboards - you shorten the time limits for one day, the next day you give the second reading. You can do whatever you want. And we still have 29 and 30. - we have a meeting in November, so it would be up to December after shortening the deadlines - it would like to - it could be done, even committees could meet. So don't threaten us here and throw our incompetence on you, backwards, your incompetence on us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u23	This is President Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to calm your emotions a little bit. If Mr králíček here now blames us that the deadline for any press has been reduced to one day, I'm just pointing out that it must always be with the consent of the opposition. There's a veto, so don't blame us. There was some reason you decided to veto the 90th that you wanted to make amendments. The same applies to this legislative emergency. I think the Minister really explains the reasons. If we introduce the ceilings of EUR 180 per megawatt hour, as the European Union has prescribed since 1 December, this means that some resources will be shut down. They're just gonna stop making 'cause it's not gonna be profitable for them. Just like we're in some kind of crisis situation. And to Mr Vondráček. I don't really like the state of legislative emergency either, but we've gotten used to it in your government's last term, we've been in some kind of crisis situation. But do you remember that you approved Airbnb regulation in Prague as part of the covid? Do you remember this, and how I protested this here? So let's be careful about the blame. I think that this time we are in a situation where we really need to be in a situation where, under pressure, Europe has acted late, I agree, but if we are to introduce something from 6 October to 1 December, we really need to do this in an accelerated procedure. The state of legislative emergency allows the opposition to speak, allows amendments to be presented. The press has been here for a week, he's been here a week so you can study it, he's been through the committee properly. It wasn't in 24 hours. So let's be a little court-martialed, if I may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Peštová is now registered, then Mr králíček and Mr Vondráček report to the debate as a standard, or with a factual remark? In fact, that's how he comes first. Well, I'm sorry, ma'am... he's interrupting. So, Mrs Peštová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond here to Minister Síkela. I took the job, pulled out this beautiful settlement table, and I was shocked by the way he was dealing with it. This law was in the MPŘ, in the shortened MPŘ from 4th to 7th November. Since fourth, just for the record, fourth was Friday, seventh was Monday. So on Friday, everyone, or all the comment points, got a gorgeous patrol and had to make comments over the weekend. The same procedure is being followed here. This means that you want to again - I'm not saying that you're taking away our right, but take it, it's not easy to study everything and get to know what was being loaded within the MPR. When I looked and I was shocked at the way you dealt with the Union of Industry, where you wrote them "unaccepted" without explanation, the contradiction lasts, and this is how I handled all those comment points. In your very nature, you haven't dealt with it. I, when I was working at the ministry, and if I put in a settlement table like this, no one would even talk to me. Nobody's even having fun! So don't be mad at me, this discussion is justified here, because time is too short for what we have to discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u27	It will now be the turn of fact. I will just make sure, Mr Adamec, that President Adamec has annulled the facts and that Mr Vondráček is the first and the first and foremost. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u28	Really only really and briefly to the Minister and to Mr Benda. Well, I didn't find it, but I know I read it in the reason report. It says that, although it is the direct legal effects of the regulation, it materially assumes that internal national regulation is impossible without it, because there is no procedural reference as to how it would be done. So I think that your argument with these power plants is very questionable, and I don't think we need it for discussion. This is really a talk about a state of legislative emergency, a talk about you reading a windfall tax at the last minute, and basically from a political point of view, you're coming in a state of legislative emergency, and you're saying you need to coordinate with it. [[9.50 hours]] So I want to ask you here after, or at least say, since when do we start talking about the ceiling, when did we adopt the law here? How much time was there for all this? And now you're figuring out that everything has to be done by December. You cannot be surprised that the opposition does not like this and that we want us to have the opportunity to discuss the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u29	The next, with a point of fact, will be given by the President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u30	Thanks for the word. I just wanted to ask. I think we've been very clear about these things here. Please, let us vote on whether or not we can continue negotiations in a legislative emergency. Let me just remind you, because I would like us to say these things fairly and truthfully: the fact that we are discussing this law in a legislative emergency has been discussed with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs or has been made aware of it, but also in good time. So no one really wants anyone to process the amendments in the order of hours. It really was not like this, it was created here - and we can talk here about the fact that perhaps not sufficient, monthly, but it was created here - the space for amendments to be processed is presented. So let's focus on the press in a matter of fact, because I have a feeling that here on this principle, I think we agree on our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u31	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr králíček and Mr Feranec is registered as standard. So first of all, in fact, this is Mr králíček, and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u32	I still have to respond to a colleague, an honored colleague of Benda. Just when Minister Síkela insults us, I'm not sitting on the bench. I'm not going to have to make threats and make threats that if we don't approve of something, what he brings in a legislative emergency, that we're responsible for something. I don't want to prolong it, but he should clean up his own business first, and then threaten us here, first of all. So unfortunately, if you do, then I have to respond, too. And secondly, yes, it was a mistake for me that we came to you and cut short the deadline, but if you had one day on the amendment, because we had a public administration committee on Wednesday, Thursday was a public holiday, and today you want a second reading, perhaps Mr Adamec will beat me to death as a little boy. So that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u33	Mr Mašek will take the next action, Mr Adamec will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would respond to Minister Síkela, who said there was an imminent threat if we didn't do it quickly today, so there could also be a threat of stopping thermal power plants, namely, which process coal. And there was 23 of them. 9. in the House, the seminar of the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection on the impact of energy prices on consumers, where electricity prices have just been numbered, was estimated at 1.65 crowns in coal power plants, including the emission allowance price, and we are talking about a limit of EUR 180, which is roughly CZK 4,500. So I think this threat, and this argument that we have to act very quickly, is odd.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u35	Now, Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues, so I would like to say to my colleague Králíček that the batter is no longer here in the House, and do not make it out of me, I am not like that, I would like to ask that. But I would also like to remind you of one thing - I understand that here, when it's in Mr. Troška's movie: If you're about to shoot, we're about two! But we shouldn't be acting like this. I think the problem is clearly set here, and the problem is time. I don't like that we're doing it this fast either. What we're gonna cover up here, we had an economic committee that was there, so you know it's very complicated. But I wanted to point out one more thing: if you want to shorten the deadlines and so on, we have a two-chamber parliament, and the Senate will want to discuss it too. That means we can't just make it, and if we didn't make it, given the short deadline between 6 October and 1. 12., it would only be to the detriment of the Czech state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u37	Thank you. A colleague králíček also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u38	Yes, I'd like to apologize to my colleague Adamc, he's certainly not that kind of person, he was exaggerating, because I know he can be emotionally distracted as I am, so I apologize for that. And the reaction -- but it's always been said here from you, you guys did it in the last term, so we're gonna do it now! So it's not about the stack higher or the two plates. You started with him, that just when you guys did it, we're gonna do it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u39	That's a nice reconciliation. [[Member Rabbit hands Mr Adamco to Mr Adamco. The O.R. responds with laughter and applause.]] You're setting an example, colleagues. You're setting an example. We are going back to the debate. President Schillerová is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u40	Just a little bit more. So I will follow up on all previous speakers, both my colleague Adamec and my honored colleague Marek Benda and President Excellent, through the Vice-President. Yes, we shouldn't treat each other like that! And when I was on that extraordinary budget committee and I asked the experts, I learned the important thing. The adaptation of this European regulation is not simply because it says something, but it does no longer say how the national state is supposed to get it into the budget, and that is why this national regulation, this tax regulation, had to be adopted. I'll talk about it in my speech, so I won't get ahead of myself. This is the example that has been made here - I think I do not know now, from President Benda, through the Vice-President - that we have not vetoed the shortening of deadlines for data boxes. Yes, that's a clear expression of cooperation. And we wouldn't have guided him here, either, under this law. So we just want to say that we don't like it, and that we just want to get back to you as an opposition and we will express our opinion in our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u41	Yes, Mr Feranec is next in the debate, Mrs Peštová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to the legal debate. It has been said several times that if we do not approve of this in a legislative emergency, we will cause extraordinary damage. And there's probably enough lawyers. Is it really a case where the House approves or does not approve of any law, or does it not approve of the law, that will result in damage? We've all been studying in law school, what's a shame, so that it won't be in a legislative emergency, it'll cause damage to the Members? Does that mean that the next time the government comes up with the idea of increasing income tax to 30%, and if it doesn't approve, we're gonna cause damage? That's for thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u43	Next in line, Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u44	I just want to respond to my previous speakers, everyone who spoke here. It's not like we're upset or at least I'm upset. I don't know how you guys spent your day last night, but I spent it on this law. I've been pulling out everything I needed to dig deeper into the law. I know, you've all been laying wreaths, and I've been working pretty well over the law here. And really, the fact that we are talking here that there is no possibility of discussion - yes, well, now maybe we're going to do the shortcut, we're going to go in a legislative emergency, we're going to agree everything in one day, and I'm curious because, of course, I've read some amendments, if these amendments are even going to happen here and there will be some discussions, and if you're as helpful as we are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u45	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? It's not like that. Before we go to the vote on the resolution, I will add my apologies. So far, I've gotten the gong so my colleagues can make it to the O.R. Eva Decroix apologizes the whole day for work reasons, colleague Nacher apologises until 11 o'clock for work reasons, and Prime Minister Šalomoun apologizes from 11.30 for family reasons. [[10.00 hours]] Therefore, if no one else is going to the debate, I will conclude the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will give you the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, Energy Act, as amended, House Press 335, in a shortened hearing." Yes, I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. [[The President shall remain silent.]] The number of Members has stabilized. So I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 38, 146 Members voted in favour, 76, against 31. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am now opening a point in the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, Energy Act, as amended, House Press 335. We are in a short session and I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela to present the proposal. [[Noise in the hall.]] Minister, please take the floor. And my colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down so that the Minister can perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the material presented, the bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended. This is an adaptation amendment to the Council of the European Union Regulation 2022/1854 of 6 October 2022 on intervention in an emergency situation which addresses high energy prices and sets a ceiling for disproportionately high market revenues from electricity sales. Although the Council Regulation is directly applicable by law, it is not possible to apply it correctly without the adoption of national legislation. The Council's regulation does not address the way in which excessive revenue is to be collected and does not even provide for such a fundamental question as the imposition of an obligation on specific producers to suffer part of their revenues. For this reason, it is essential that the legislation lays down clear rules for the levy on excess income. The draft law defines the taxpayer's contribution, the subject matter of the levy, the administrator of the levies and other details necessary for the application of this Regulation in practice. The whole European solution assumes a ceiling of EUR 180 per megawatt hour, but Member States are allowed to distinguish between technologies intended for the production of electricity. The draft law sets a ceiling on market income differentiated for individual production technologies, based on a qualified estimate of the cost of each technology. At the same time, in accordance with the Council Regulation, it makes use of the possibility to exclude from the scope of the levy certain revenues from the sale of electricity, listed in the draft law. These are, for example, power plants with installed power of less than 1 megawatt hour. The draft law provided that the administrator of the levies would be the Energy Regulatory Authority, which, however, would be able to request the execution of acts or other procedures by the Financial Administration. The Ministry of Finance will deal with any disputes between the administrator of the levies and the requested authority. The draft law was discussed with the Committee on Budgets on 15 November and issued a resolution with a recommendation to approve it, then it was discussed with the Economic Committee on 16 November and the Economic Committee issued a resolution with a recommendation to approve it as amended by the amendments approved. Both negotiations were very constructive and factual, for which, in such a tense situation, when it is really necessary to adopt this legislation quickly, thank you. Let me also mention the basic areas discussed on the various committees. First, the tax versus the levy. The proposal was approved by a qualified majority at the meeting of Ministers for Energy. This is therefore not a tax because this was said to the Council of Finance Ministers, approval would have to be dealt with in the Council of Finance Ministers and approval would have to be unanimous. In the Czech Republic, however, we use tax processes for the levy, which is not a unique thing. For another, the opinion of the Government's compatibility department on the interlinking of taxes on unexpected profits, the so-called windfall tax. The exceptional profits tax in the electricity sector is a national measure to reduce the market revenue of producers. It is partly directly applicable to European legislation, which must be adapted to national law. The real consequence of these parallel legal arrangements will be that the remuneration of over-market income contributions will reduce the collection of tax on excessive profits for the 2023 tax period. Why are different values for individual sources? For renewable sources, it was based on the European Regulatory Authority's data, when the green bonus was deducted from the purchase price and the cost of the derogation and the so-called incentive or if you want a margin was added. Other sources were based on fuel costs, allowance costs, if the allowance is variable costs, transport - again, if transport, transport costs are applied, in place - gross margins and fixed costs taking into account efficiency. Amendments that are currently being read in the system, 1641 - addition to water without the use of the dam reservoir by Members Kučera and Teleky, a favourable opinion has already been accepted by the Economic Committee. I have here no billing number for December 2022, two months after the end of the draft period, from President Adamec, once again a consenting position, which has been discussed by the Economic Committee. 1642 - the ERU's duty to set top hours from Mr Tomáš Müller and Mr Robert Teleky, once again a favourable position, and 1643 - the possibility of ceilinging prices for large companies with restrictions on maximum property benefits, from President Adamec, again a favourable position. In view of the urgency of adopting the proposed amendment, when it is necessary to adapt the Regulation by 1 December 2002, it is proposed to discuss the amendment in question in a state of legislative emergency within the meaning of Article 99 of Law No. 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. If there is no timely adaptation of the European regulation, there is a risk of significant economic damage to the State as a result of the impossibility of collecting and subsequently redistributing funds in the order of billions of crowns, in a situation where there is an exceptional circumstance, which is an energy crisis, requiring a time-coordinated Europe-wide solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u47	The Economic Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as the House Press 335/2. The Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 335/1, has also taken an initiative to discuss this proposal. I would now like Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Ivan Adamec, to take the floor of the Committee's rapporteur for the economic committee, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any amendments to justify it. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u48	Yes, thank you. Mr President, Minister, Minister, Ministers, Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I will be brief in my report, if necessary, for discussion in the debate. I wanted to say that we discussed this on Wednesday at a lunch break after the election that took place here in various bodies, when we had relatively short time for so I would say a fundamental material that will affect the energy market and actually the revenue of the state budget next year. It has to be said that the opposition here says she doesn't like it - well, we're not happy about it either. I am not at all thrilled that we are doing such social engineering here, where we adjust the market according to what is needed. The whole of Europe is doing this because the situation is serious, it is not easy. And if we're saying that we're adding and we want to add to the citizens, to the companies, then we have to say the other side: where are we going to take it? And of course, many entrepreneurs and companies are losing to this situation, but unfortunately, at this point, I say unfortunately, they are earning and earning so much that it is not actually their doing, but it is because the conditions in Europe have changed. And that is what I think is the subject of all these bills that we have here, and that is why we took it all the way to that economic committee where we said it was necessary to do it, even though I am in favour of the fact that laws, legislation should not be done quickly, should be done slowly and in detail, because with speed, mistakes are usually made. And I think that most of the laws that go through such an accelerated legislative process over time may show some shortcomings. However, here is also an effort to transfer some of the powers to the government, especially the last amendment, where we have actually dealt with this in other laws that we have dealt with here in the context of the energy crisis. We discussed it. Two amendments were made to the Economic Committee, which were agreed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. One was about specifying the water power plants that it doesn't belong to the ones that have the water tanks. Then there was mine that specified the paycheck, or 25 days for two months. This has passed. I have called on the members of the Economic Committee if they are interested in preparing amendments to today's plenary, and I know that they are there today. But I have to say, of course, it's due to the time that was here. Of course, I am glad that we are celebrating November 17 as a public holiday, but unfortunately, in terms of negotiating this bill, it was not exactly an optimal day off. The Economic Committee discussed, the discussions were there, the Minister described them here, I will not repeat them. I will read to you the motion for a resolution by the Economic Committee, which met on 16 November, had a 20th meeting: the Economic Committee proposes The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to hold a general debate on the bill; proposes the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to hold a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; Thirdly, it proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on this law no later than 24 hours on 18 November 2022, which is today's day, and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, House print number 335, as amended by amendments. And then there's just a warrant, and that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u49	Prime Minister, thank you. Can I ask you one more time about the suggestions to sum them up? Meaning, did you suggest that you lead both general and detailed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u50	Yes, yes, and at the same time the last one recommends that we give our consent in the text of the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u51	Yes. Thank you very much. I will now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jan Kuchař, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u52	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in brief, I shall sum up the resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its 22nd meeting on 15 November. That meeting again, as my previous speaker said, was held in fact exceptionally, after the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies in the evening. The discussion took place there very much, especially because, as the Minister said, the Council of the European Union's decisions were incorporated into our legislation. I will read to you the resolution adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting: the Committee on Budgets proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; it also proposes that the Chamber of Deputies have a detailed debate on all parts of the bill; proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies close its negotiations by 24 no later than today, 18 November; and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that, with a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the so-called Energy Act, as amended, the House Press 335, agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u53	I thank the rapporteur, and we will now decide whether we will have a general debate. Both committees have proposed a general debate, and we will vote on it. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I will repeat for those who arrived later in the hall: we will now decide whether the general debate will lead to this point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of us having a general debate? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 39, 146 Members have been voted in favour, 124 voted in favour, and no one has opposed it. The motion was accepted. Since we voted to have a general debate, I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it? The first enrollment is Mr Nacher... excuse me, with priority rights is signed by Mr. Vice-President Havlíček and followed with priority rights by Minister Schillerová. [[Responses in plenary that he is no longer a minister.]] Then Minister Šalomoun came forward. Madam President Schillerová. Mr. Vice-President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u54	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I can only begin by saying that the Czech economy is in decline, that we are going into recession and that our construction production is falling. The only reason our industry is growing is because we have a low benchmark base with last year due to car failures, the eighth month in a row shows our export deficit to import and that we have a clear cooling on the production side. Unfortunately, our investments are falling. All of this is due to the great energy problems faced by our households and, in particular, our businesses. And before we come to that law of ours, it's good to recapitulate what we've been dealing with here for months and what reality looks like. Since January, Minister, we have asked you to forgive payments for renewable resources, possibly VAT, one of them. We said it was anti-inflationary. You laughed at us, arrogantly claiming that you didn't. As a result, you eventually introduced it, only with a nine-month delay, and you said it was anti-inflationary. Of course he does. Since April, we've been asking you to launch a temporary crisis framework. At the end of August, you said there would be no more support for large enterprises. After that, you changed your mind, for which we thank you, but the temporary framework did not prepare itself as the European Commission allows. I don't understand why we haven't followed the rules because we've been going over the loss of the initial economic result since February of this year, and however it may seem like a seeming detail, it's the devil in it. As a result, a number of companies will not be able to support it. I do not understand why we did not stick to what the European Commission allows, and this is a 40% decline in operating profit before depreciation against 2020. I'm impressed that the goal was to make those companies less than they deserved. Since spring, we have argued that the guarantee system you are preparing will not produce an effect because there are high interest rates. I don't blame you for that, it's been introduced, but the result is that there's virtually no interest in it because of high interest rates. Since July, we have argued that the single energy-saving tariff is already behind its zenith. He would have had his effect, Minister, if it had been sometime in the spring, if it had been possible in March, April. I understand that various instruments were invented, but it was obvious that this instrument would no longer be relevant in price escalation. Still, it was introduced to end again after three months. But at least have a positive report that it had an anti-inflationary effect, an effect for households but absolutely minimal. Since the transition of spring to summer, let me be objective, we argue that we need to prepare a whole system and a system of cropping. No, nothing happened. At the end of August, you claimed that there was no such thing as populist proposals, extremist proposals, and so on. Within hours, everything changed. The result is that the ceiling is, however, the whole of the ceiling scheme, which I don't understand at all, is not being prepared by the team at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, is being prepared especially by the team under the Office of the Government, and we are not even talking about the fact that the ceiling scheme is not responsible for how much we can produce electricity. And so will it, Mr. Minister, with a splash for big companies. I remember when we came up with this, when you laughed at us again and you said that the so-called German model, when they put in place a ceiling for big companies, would not be possible to introduce in the Czech Republic that they would encounter the European Commission - so clearly they have not encountered the European Commission yet. Yes, it is true that it is always conditional on something to be objective again, but the fact that Germany is going to have gas for large enterprises at 70 euros per megawatt hour and electricity at 130 euros per megawatt hour, and that it is likely to negotiate with the European Commission within the framework of the so-called temporary framework, that is to say, there will be companies with a decline in operating profit over 40 percent of the year 2021. This should have been prepared with us. We weren't supposed to play that game that wasn't going to happen, and we were supposed to help those Němec negotiate and try to make it work for our companies, too, because if it doesn't happen in Germany and it doesn't happen with us, we're gonna have a huge problem with it, and you need to know for sure. So once again, Minister, a big challenge: Let us solve the ceilings for big companies, whether we say this in Germany's example or in what the European Commission will allow within the framework of the so-called temporary framework. It'll probably be the same. Now let's go to the energy law and the levy on excessive income. Total confusion about what's going on here, especially in connection with the windfall tax. On my own, let me be objective again - if you, Minister, come up with just this solution without a link to the windfall tax, apart from certain little things, we could probably say that this corresponds to what was being prepared within the European Union and how we should react. I'm not even gonna be the one who's gonna be fatally criticizing this legislative mess. First of all, I am not competent to do this, I cannot accurately assess it, and objectively, I say that we have also assessed a number of measures and laws under pressure and in an accelerated regime. Then let the legislation judge that. But the way it all got mixed up with the windfall tax, it's creating an incredible mess that logically comes across a whole series of legal barriers, and I'm just curious who's gonna take responsibility for it if it doesn't end up. You know we talked about this on the Economic Committee. You said to a large extent, "Don't ask me so much, because it's all under the Government's Legislative Council, she gave me a stump, I can play it like that, so I'm taking it out of my sight. Yes, but you are a government, you are acting within the whole, and logically I will also want to hear the answers from Minister Šalomoun. So, Minister Šalomoun, please explain how we will deal with this being a clear contradiction with the European Union's regulation, I note that under the Presidency of our government. You gave it a free pass within the Government Legislative Council, you said it was no problem, at least this is how we were told on the Economic Committee by the Minister, although the regulation of the European Union clearly states that it sets out two different measures, and it is assumed that it will apply to different entities and precisely in combination with the windfall tax. In other words, windfall tax may include the crude oil, natural gas and refining sector, all right, and a levy on excessive income, or what we are dealing with now, electricity producers. And so I ask the representatives of the Government Legislative Council if the fact that this is all included in the windfall tax is okay, and why, therefore, the Government Legislative Council has no problem with that. If it's okay, yes, please convince us. It's exactly the same with the measure to be, I mean, now the over-profit levy, which is in force until mid-2023. This is clear from the European Union. Why is it with us until the end of 2023? So what happens when the subjects are 30? 6. and, respectively, from 1. 7. 2023 will they stop paying? I further wonder, Minister Šalomoun, if the Commission can initiate proceedings against the Czech Republic in this case. Just so we understand each other, it's okay that we don't want to get the money from those companies. I'm just asking, what happens when someone has this legal dispute that, in my opinion, can quite possibly come to their advantage, what happens if we have tens of billions of crowns collected? Is the money coming back? Aren't they coming back? So, once again, a question for Minister Šalomoun. The Minister of Industry was unable to explain it to us, or he framed you. [[Minister Síka's reaction.]] Minister, Minister, please calm down. You'll have enough room to get out. [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] [[10.30 hours]] Next, we have a threat of double loading. Some call it double taxation, I rather stick to the terminology of double burdens, which may be contrary to constitutional order. And again, it's a question for Minister Šalomoun. You, in the review proceedings, the first one, were opposed to this. You said that there could be a case-law and so on, I will not be going into detail right now, the so-called choking effect. According to the Minister of Industry's statement, it is explained, you have agreed or explained that there will be no throbbing effect. I would therefore ask for an explanation of what led you to this, and, at the same time, whether this contribution, as we call it, is also of a tax nature. We believe that it may be of a tax nature, and if that were to happen, it is quite evident that we have here - and let us count very well - 60% of the burden of the so-called windfall tax, which is more than 27 per cent above what the European Commission has set at the minimum limit, says 33 per cent. We're going to 60 per cent, logically 19 per cent, so we're at 79 per cent, and of course, we're getting to 90 per cent, and we're getting to 90 per cent. So I just want an answer to whether we don't think that these plus minus 90 percent can't be considered a double load. Please nicely, the argument that goes from the Ministry of Finance, which at first glance doesn't seem illogical, which says that by being a tax-acceptable item, we can't get out of it, because it's only from a tax point of view, within the meaning of one item, but obviously there's a double burden on the entity. To put it simply, the entity has to pay both windfall tax, so it has to pay taxes on excessive income, only that the excess income payments can be included in the tax base, I understand that, but it doesn't go against 90 per cent in the end. So I would ask Minister Šalomoun to give me a factual answer. Next thing you know, it's all wide with a hot needle. Again, perhaps I would also take the two or three days that were here about Friday and Monday, it was done quickly, but the fact that we are going to have an amendment two, three hours before the beginning of the meeting, the amendment clearly government, only that Mr Adamec is presenting it, I really do not understand, because I do not know now how we are all going to find out how to evaluate it, but I believe that here, Minister Síkela, you will explain this well, because this amendment can have various connotations, various consequences. I'm not as critical as some of my colleagues on different price ceilings. I am quite aware here that this cannot be completely averaged and thrown at the 180 euros, because there are resources that have lower production costs, there are resources that have higher production costs. Of course, we will never get rid of the fact that some producers consider this to be price discriminatory. There's a whole series of ceilings that I'd probably be dealing with a little differently, they don't seem entirely fair to me. On the other hand, this is the responsibility of the Ministry - if you set them like this, if you have discussed this well, you must defend it. But I am clearly impressed by the fact that you cut it a lot with ČEZ because you know that you control ČEZ to a large extent and that there is not the biggest problem, which is why you put the 70 euros there, although I understand that the core of course has very low price costs, I mean production costs. But you won't be able to avoid encountering minority shareholders, with whom you, among other things, ran off in an incredible way. If they were being dealt with, it wouldn't have turned out the way they did, and I'm afraid they're the ones that can be expected to be attacked. What I don't understand is the confusion about the expected revenues that we're going to have from these two instruments. Minister, just a week ago, you claimed that the windfall tax would be CZK 85 billion and CZK 15 billion would be from these over-income contributions. That's what the Minister of Finance said. Within one week, there's a high blow and you're saying that windfall tax isn't going to be that much, you're going to estimate half, so I'm going to count about 40 to 45 billion in speed, but on the contrary, you're going to get 80 billion crowns from the proceeds of excessive profits or the proceeds of excessive profits. I'm not saying it won't, I don't know. I'm just a little surprised that in a few days, in the order of tens of billions of crowns, you turn around and everything is different. If I recap, you're going at it in an incredibly complicated way. If, in time, you tried - although I know it is not easy - to determine the prices for manufacturers, you would not allow them to make the big profits, you would not allow them to sell them for 2023, but now for 2024 a vast part of energy, so we did not happen that the producers would have such high profits, you would tax them in an incredibly complicated way, notabene on the edge of the law, on the edge of European law, you would be exposed to great litigation and could be objectively threatening to stop it. And so I ask repeatedly what happens after this, if this is not accepted, if it is possibly lost? Will those tens of billions of crowns be returning? I really don't know how it's gonna be done. Well, since... I'm gonna get to it. Other things. How will it be ensured that the funds selected are used at all to finance energy support, which, among other things, is clearly defined within the European Union? This means that what is chosen must go precisely to energy support. I want to believe that's how it's gonna turn out, but it's not explicitly set anywhere. The resources can be used for anything else. But I guess I'd see that as the little problem. What bothers me a lot is that it doesn't make a team at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Minister, I would never let them take this agenda away from me. I don't understand why he's going to move to the Office of the Government. Nothing against Mr. Zajíček, who manages it well from my point of view, but why do advisory institutions do it? Why isn't it 90, 100 people who are competent at the Ministry of Industry and Trade who are responsible for this? Why don't we take some more of the Chep people? Why did you have this taken? Doesn't it bother you that consulting firms are setting up a policy for you at the Ministry of Industry today, energy policy, that they write a lot of things and you're just static? You must know that when colleagues from the Ministry of Industry and Trade look at us. I can't believe you're not gonna stand up for them, and you're not gonna get this. I don't know if you've been communicating with companies, how they see it. Yes, I'm talking to the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Commerce and so on. They hold their heads in their hands, but they nod from time to time. But I don't know to what extent you're actually counting what happens after you. I don't mean you now, Minister, I don't know where you'll end up, but what happens after this government. So in 2023 we will pay advances for the year 2022, yes, and they will probably not be bad, whether within the windfall tax, but also within the framework of these over-income contributions. And what happens next? The year 2023 will undoubtedly optimize these companies. Both banks and those involved will do so. That means, in 2024, a small part of this is going to come back. So where's the effect? This is just about backing up some kind of income that goes into the state budget, so by 2023 this government will survive, I dare say it will. And what happens in 2024, in 2025, when it has to come back? That's what we need to see. I mean, you're from a banking environment, and you need to know that these companies are gonna do that, notabene, of course, the banks are gonna do that. If they're telling me, they have to tell you, too, the banks. And what about the over-income payments? I guarantee you that a number of manufacturers will do that by fixing their deliveries at two, three years at a price that is at that level, let's say 230 or 180, or I don't know how many euros, so that they don't have to do anything, and avoid doing this. Moreover, some manufacturers - that's quite interesting - who make decent resources, but those resources have been allocated to the stock market today, they really don't have cash. And I'm curious about what they're going to pay back in 2023 because they're manufacturers that no one can lend to today - not because they have bad results, but because they have so-called dirty resources. Well, I wonder how you'll deal with them in the finals, too. And the fact that some of those to whom it touches stop investing that they're going to take activities abroad, that's pretty obvious, it's finally happening. In any case, I don't just want to be the one who can criticize, it's simple, the situation is not simple, and I understand that you don't have the situation that I had in terms of communicating with other members of the government, and the support that the Ministry of Industry and Trade may have had for me, which I don't envy you. But if you were to determine prices for manufacturers in time, I mean energy, we could have avoided it. And when you didn't go that way, the easier way was - and please, let's do the math - to go right through ČEZ. Finally, you will find that the vast part of the resources you choose will not be from actors outside CEZ, but it will be from CEZ. The others - I guarantee you - will optimize it in a certain form. So in the end, you get 130, 140, 150 billion crowns from ČEZ. Isn't it easier to download it over a dividend? Isn't it easier to download it partially through the undivided profit from past years than to do it in this complicated way? Yes, you can argue with the banks, but that goes beyond this law, because it's about a windfall tax, even with banks, in my opinion, it could be done differently. It could have been done on the way through the funds and you didn't have to put yourself in a position to optimize the results here. But like I said, that's a windfall tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u55	Thank you, too. Have a good morning. With the right of priority, I have Mrs. Alena Schillerová, and then Minister Šalomoun is next in line with the right of priority. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, one problem will take turns for us. That is precisely the style of governance that has been set up by the current government coalition. Of course, I understand that today's times are dynamic and that the situation and conditions are constantly changing, but unfortunately, it is obvious, and we are not dealing with this for the first time, that the five-calice cannot adapt to the current changing times and react simply promptively. An example, unfortunately one of many, is today's amendment to the Energy Act, which has an extraordinary impact on the revenue side of the state budget for 2023 and does not correspond at all to the assumptions on which the state budget is based, whose second reading we had the opportunity to discuss this Wednesday, but also shows that the current amendment to the Energy Act can be regarded as unconstitutional because it introduces double taxation, double tax impact. Unfortunately, Stanjur-Síkela's tandem again appeared here, who is still getting - and I will talk about it in more detail - into a collision with Czech constitutional order, but also with European Union law, all under the heading of the state of legislative emergency, which we talked about almost an hour ago. It clearly shows again that the left hand of the government does not know what the right hand is doing. In this case, I'm sorry, I feel like the government has both hands left. Now let me have a few facts. It should be noted that the Czech Tax Code considers the tax to be any cash transaction, which the law provides for the procedure of its administration under the tax rules. So I would like to point out - I suspect that this is covered by Section 1 of the Tax Code, moreover, in this law it is explicitly stated that "in accordance with Section 95g of the Energy Act in the proposed wording, the tax rules are applied in the management of the levy'. That's what I was quoting directly from this law that we're discussing right now. In addition, Section 95e of this Act provides that, for the purposes of the obligation of the organisational component of the State to bind State budget resources under the law governing budgetary rules, the levy on excess income is to be regarded as a tax income. When I asked about the Committee of Experts - because I think it's a tax - they told me that it's not a tax from a substantive point of view, but it's a tax from a procedural legal point of view. So I remembered - it kind of reminded me of my honored colleague Milan Feranec - that made me remember the famous English saying, which our Czech Constitutional Court also applied to in his case law. I quote, "When something looks, swims and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck." For all these reasons, it can be concluded that the excess income levy is, both materially and formally, the tax transactions administered under the tax rules as a tax, i.e. together with the tax on unexpected profits - that is the windfall tax that we have approved here as a naïve amendment by Minister Stanjura - is double taxation. Individual energy operators are therefore at risk of double taxation, double tax burden, from taxes on unexpected profits and from the levy on excessive income. The European regulation, which allowed windfall tax schemes to be introduced and market income restrictions, envisaged that each scheme would apply to different entities - windfall tax on natural gas, oil and so on, and restrictions on market revenues on electricity. So we believe that the amendment is contrary to European regulation, because it is introducing measures on the same subjects again. Moreover, this taxation could have a grating effect for the whole sector, given that the amount of the excess income levy amounts to 90 per cent of excessive income according to the government proposal and that this levy is accompanied by a tax on unexpected profits, which also affects selected electricity producers, and is again a high amount of 60 per cent, to which the classic corporate tax, or corporate tax, is attributed, which is 19 per cent. So much just to assess these two taxes for me. I do not want to question at all that the assessment of the appropriateness and necessity of the various components of tax policy is left to the discretion of the democratically elected legislator, i.e. today, logically a five-calice, which has a majority here, I certainly do not want to take that away from the current government. But even this discretion, this majority, has the limits formulated in the case law of our Constitutional Court, namely that the impact of the tax must not have a suffocating effect. The tax on expected profits, already strictly set in relation to the level of taxation compared to European regulation, has now been accompanied by another very significant type of tax affecting part - I note - of the same addressees, who can feel the grunting effect as a result of their combination. Such a solution could potentially be considered unconstitutional. I'm not a lobbyist here for any industry. I am trying as a lawyer, but also as an MP who is about to raise his hand for something at the end of today - at the end of today's day, I did not mean the whole, but the negotiating - and I should have a clear conscience that it is okay. I understand that the government is looking for revenue for extraordinary expenses, but the revenue it has there is also not supported by anything. I repeatedly questioned the Minister of Finance, who is not here today, but responded to this on Wednesday and at first reading - always a little differently - from what these revenues result. He's always said they're calculations of the Treasury's experts. Probably not when the Minister of Industry and Trade presents it, but no one has seen the calculations. We would have just seen these calculations if it had been done through at least a short-term legislative process, a short-term commentary procedure or committees, and we would have known what it was. Because then it could not happen that in the amendment by Zbyněk Stanjura, which was approved under the windfall tax tax tax package, we have stated that the revenue from the windfall tax including this levy will be 100 billion and that the levy will be about 15 billion, because 85 is from windfall tax to be read in this levy, in Act 335 which we are debating today, that the expected revenue of this levy is 80 billion and that basically both are paid in the form of an advance, because in a way it is a tax on income, even though I have read that it is a tax on electricity, so I no longer know what it is a tax on, but it is a tax on income - it is always paid in the form of advances. These are accounted for in the following year after the tax period and there is either an overpayment, an underpayment or, as they say, a shove zero. [[10.50 hours]] And so I couldn't imagine how it would have been when I heard on the budget committee that the windfall tax would actually be deductible against the levy. So I couldn't imagine how it would work with those backups. And then I read on page 14 of the explanatory note that the bill actually has... that the introduction of this levy will have an impact reducing the collection of windfall tax. He remembers, I said 85 a while ago, yes, but here you will read, here in this law, that it will be 40 less, because the subjects will be able to ask otherwise for advance payments. Yes, but this is an active instrument under the tax code depending on the amount, the development of the levy on excessive income in 2023, or this levy and the negative impact and the collection of windfall tax is estimated at 40 billion, so we are at 45. So it's more, it's about 45 and 80 now, so it's 125, but we have 100 in the budget. Okay, I understand it's a tough time, but here we're throwing tens of billions back, tens back. But these are the revenue of the state budget, the state budget has to be drawn up by law, this Chamber of Deputies votes for it - we don't, as the YES movement, but the rest of the government's five-calice, and here we paint tens of billions there, tens back. And be careful, we're talking about the differences in the order of the days, the differences in those amounts are in the order of the days, so it's not like there's any weeks, months that would have evolved in any other way - in the order of the days. And I'm still - and I'm not going to bring that here now because we're dealing with this levy - but I didn't get the answer from my honored colleague Richard Brabec to the 50 billion from the Valorisation Fund until today, but I'm not going to be meddling here right now, so maybe we'll see it in the third reading of the State Budget Act. I'm still holding on to that 100 billion, or maybe now 125. The budget is 100, but now it's 125, but it's completely different. Moreover, the administrator of this levy, which we are discussing here today, is the Energy Regulatory Authority, which fundamentally rejects it, as I have read in the public space, and he has no competence in this area, that he is not ready for it. I asked about it on the budget committee because the tax administration administers our taxes according to the jurisdictional regulations. And so, while I have read for interest, I think on page 24, that this is - that the excess income levy will be the income of the state budget chapter of the Energy Regulatory Authority - so not only the administrator but also the income - and will be budgeted on budget lines 1233, the income from the electricity tax. Well, I don't know anymore. I asked about the committee of experts' budget, how they had it in mind, and they told me that the ERU would be the administrator in the level of finding. Finding, that means accepting some kind of report, billing that it just - but it still has to be logged at least somewhere, maybe it'll put some kind of expert resumé on it, because it's not just going to be a routine administration, it's going to be some kind of knowledge from the field of energy that you're going to have to do it properly - I don't know who would do it at the Financial Administration. I worked there for 25 years, I don't know who would be an energy expert, with all due respect to all my colleagues, who are very skilled in their field. The finder's plane means it's located. So I guess that's where it's going to count, if the bill is correctly calculated, the deposit, but on the proof level, and the next thing you know, it's going to be the Financial Administration, and it's going to be requested by the Energy Regulatory Authority, so that's how it's supposed to work. I just don't want to do that anymore - I don't even know if I should comment in any way. So what I'd like to say is that it's something that definitely doesn't work well for me. Despite all the complexity of the time, the complexity of the conditions, despite all our criticism that we'd go the other way, we're here now, and we're supposed to comment on what's here right now. This is not a job well done for me. I'm not gonna repeat anything about a legislative emergency. We've been talking about it for over an hour. But what I'm saying is that it's chaos, chaos, I absolutely don't understand it, and I repeat again: it's the revenue of the state budget, not in a small amount. There are 100 billion on the revenue side, and now we're counting with these conversions and new data that we're actually learning in the explanatory memorandum to this law because we don't have any other source, we don't have any calculations, no analyses, no economic impacts that are normally made in such fundamental tax laws. And don't be mad at me, I say again, and we've done it here several times, not Tuesday this week at the latest - we haven't vetoed a day's deadline on data boxes, we wouldn't vet again, we would agree to shortening the deadlines again. You'd have made it. You're making excuses because you just didn't want to go to the market with your skin. You didn't want to go into a short notice procedure because you can do whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u57	Thank you, and it is now with a point of fact that it is to be noted before the priority right of the next applied for, Mrs Berenika Peštová. I'm gonna read an apology that ran out in the meantime. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes within 12 hours for medical reasons. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u58	It'll really be factual, it'll be quick. I'd like the Minister to write down the questions, because I have something similar, and I'd like to know the answers. That means it's tax, isn't it tax? Yes, you call it a decoy. What's it gonna look like, if the entity cuts from the point of view of its portfolio, now I'm gonna have to talk about the municipalities, if the municipality is within its own - I don't know - financing has an incinerator and the incinerator sells the village cheaper electricity? You know, I need to know what it's gonna look like, if it's gonna be under the tax code, and it's gonna be taken as a tax fraud, that it went (?) under 180 euros or under 100 euros, the debate is still going to take place here, or if it's going to look like it's really done and it's not a tax, so then it wouldn't be a tax evasion. But I'm saying, I'd like to hear the answers from you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u59	Thank you for keeping time, and we can now proceed to the next logged in. It is with priority right Mr. Minister for Legislation Michal Šalomoun. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer these questions here. The problem with the whole proposal, if there is one, is that of course it is done quickly, but there was no other option. Reminder procedure was. So it was really very short, but I couldn't really do anything but shorten the comment procedure this fast. Under normal circumstances, of course, I would take advantage of the Grand Legislative Council of the Government and have it assessed by the Grand Legislative Council of the Government, unfortunately, there really wasn't time. [[11.00 hours]] Just terminology: if it is said that the Legislative Council of the Government, which I consider to be the great one, as the auditorium of the twenty, thirty professors, did not consider this. It was judged by the government department, government legislation, so I'm talking more about government legislation. I've been taking notes here. The controversy of the tax, the levy -- well, basically, it depends on the optics you're looking at. If you're looking at it with a linguistic view, it's not a tax because it's not a tax. If you applied the optics of some Euro-right process procedures, where ECOFIN did not really approve unanimously, but approved it by the Energy Council, then it is not a tax in this optics. However, if I'm going to use the legal optics to do that, then I learned it at the law school, which actually roughly says that if something is legal, it's the income of some public budgets, it's either tax, or it's a fee. The difference between this is that the tax is without consideration and the fee is with consideration. The problem is that we don't follow it properly anyway, maybe the dog fee is a typical property tax on the dog. Anyway, I think it's going to lead the controversy, whether it's tax or not, maybe it's not that useful. In my optics, it's more of a tax, and the way the Constitutional Court would have viewed it, where it might have stumbled upon it, I think it would have been more of an optical tax assessment. The assessment would probably reflect Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 5 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, that taxes and charges are to be implemented on the basis of the law. So here we have the law, it's the law of energy, so this would probably be fulfilled. Then there's what was called double taxation. I thank Vice-President Havlíček that he has moved it a little further, that it is more like a double load. But I still don't think that's the problem on the constitutional level. We, on the constitutional level, have no double taxation prohibited anywhere. After all, there are tax areas where we have double taxation. When we have excise duty and VAT on alcohol, there is also basically double taxation. Perhaps more appropriate than talking about double taxation is perhaps better to talk about excessive taxation, and that concern may be appropriate here. Government legislation was so worried, and she wanted her petitioner to explain to the government, which I think I can still get to, which she explained. And one more time about double taxation. There may not be a problem here, if there were more taxes to add up, but in the end they wouldn't have the so-called choking effect instead of just one tax, and that would have the choking effect. Why are we talking about the choking effect? This is based on the case law of the Constitutional Court, and not only on it, but on the Federal Constitutional Court in Germany, which considers the tax issue as follows. In tax areas, constitutional courts hold quite a great deal of restraint in the framework of drug interventions, for reasons that they do not want to get into the position of a shadow government and do not want to determine whether the tax percentages are - as if they should be - one percent higher or lower, but they still have to determine some line that cannot be followed. Basically, they judge it from the point of view of banning extreme disproportionality, and that level for them when it would be one taxation, here probably a cumulation of taxation that could happen when it would create some deadly cocktail that would have the choking ones, sometimes there's talk of strangling effects, when it would actually have some confiscating effect. I don't think this bill has it. So, as the petitioner explains, the ceilings are actually designed there to include both the cost of producing the energy, but also some reasonable profit, so those who are affected by this tax or this levy will not actually be forced to do it under the price, they will not be forced to pay for it and there will not be the confiscation effect. And if there's any more concern about whether the windfall tax cocktail can't bring the choking effect in this one, it can't, from my point of view, because even if the levy is done in this way, it's set to be in some reasonable profit for those entities to which it's impacting, and only then could they, if they still have enough profit, be caught by a windfall tax, which is 20 percent above what they've usually earned in the last four years, so it wouldn't be a deadly cocktail. Then there was a question about why the whole year is 2023, and not just half of it, when the regulation says only half of it in 2023. That's what I asked about the government. It was explained to me that the companies to which this is going to happen, so actually their products and thinking are just being realized throughout the year, they have planned it for a whole year, and that it would be more appropriate to do it this way. In the end, the government leaned toward that. Of course, what goes beyond this year - despite the fact that the Commission may extend it - may know more about this, Minister Síkela. This also applies to other things where the levy is actually imposed on those who are not in the regulation. Then, of course, it is not an adaptation of the regulation, it is a purely national measure, the Minister has already said so here in the introductory words. You asked me if the Commission could initiate the procedure. In principle, the Commission may open proceedings with a Member State at any time when it finds that there is an infringement of Union law, most often the case being that there is something in the legislation that smells of discrimination, and thus discrimination on grounds of nationality. I am not in this factual detail here, but I believe that it would probably not be in this case, that the ownership of the power plants and so differently layered among the various foreign companies, that perhaps the Commission could not believe that it is specifically aimed at the foreign ones and not the national ones. [[11.10 hours]] Then I would probably introduce you, or you asked me to explain whether I was satisfied with whether the Ministry actually explained enough to the government. I believe that, in principle, yes. There was a thing that was not quite explained in principle, but that is why the text changed to the government, and that was the thing that concerned the possibility of adjusting the price cap by government regulations. The original proposal had a pretty wide mandate. Part of these costs is the emission allowance, and if the price of emission allowances would somehow increase dramatically, then it could actually be a problem, and then ultimately it could have choking effects, so the government decided to propose to Parliament to give authorisation to the government in these cases where it is the production of energy from brown coal, to adjust adequately the price of the levy ceiling at the moment if the price of the allowance exceeded EUR 90, it is currently EUR 85. So then the government should intervene in some appropriate way. And then another thing was discussed in the government, and that was what is mentioned today in Section 95 (f) in the last sentence, where in the original draft of this regulation there was some decisive day, which is October 8, 2022, according to which the performances were assessed, but it was not really thought about what would happen if a power plant had been put into production after that date. So that's why the sentence was added that in those other cases it was the day that the device or the plant was put into operation. So I understand that it's done in a hurry, it's not comfortable for anyone, it's not comfortable for government legislation, it's not for the Ministry of Industry and Trade legislation. I'm sorry you don't have time for this, but the situation really is urgent. And if the Member spent all day with it yesterday, believe me, I spent the last two days with it. I hope I answered everything you asked me and what I could answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u61	Thank you. It raised two factual points, namely Mrs Berenika Peštová, and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u62	Thank you, Minister. I feel like about 11:00 p.m. you reported leaving, which is why I'm taking advantage of the fact that I'm going with the facts, 'cause I don't think anybody's gonna answer me anymore. I still didn't get the answer to whether it's a tax or not, and how it's going to approach those subjects who are essentially not going to do anything wrong. I have a model city. The city has two companies, each other -- you know, the point is, I want to hear here that it won't be taken as a tax evasion, because it's basically not going to do anything wrong. And at least as I read the regulation, there is a possibility that they can, in principle, overcompete them, but they can have new contracts that they can conclude after the acquisition. So I just want to hear here and make sure that they're not or will not be looked at or seen doing tax evasion or tax fraud. That's one thing. I'm glad you said that and you mentioned that it wasn't like the Legislative Council, I mean in plenary, it wasn't even in committees. You probably had the same time I did, maybe a little longer. I wouldn't agree with the way you've just been so soft around here, I don't know what happened. When I read your opinion, and when I also read the attachment to the opinion of the Prime Minister, where you always have a beautifully bold indication of what you agreed to and did not agree to, maybe the last point you mentioned here means efficiency by June 30, 2023, you were quite critical there. Well, I take it you described it here, didn't you, the draft period modified in Section 95 of the letter. (c) does not correspond to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, In accordance with Article 2 (c) of the Regulation and so on, the levy may be levied only until the end of June 2023. Then, of course, you described the caselaw and so on. [[President: Time, Madame.]] I'll sign up one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u63	Please, Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u64	I thank Minister Šalomoun, I think he explained it quite well. But I have an additional question, one more question. First of all, what Mrs Peštová asked, because we are going to, either give or not make an amendment, whether it should be 30. 6. or not. You're a little bit, I don't mean to say Solomonian, but that's not the way to put it, he rigged out that you're probably not comfortable with it, but on the other hand, that's the way the government decided it, or the officials said it was comfortable for them. But I'd like to hear your opinion, if it's right to lean towards that 30. 6. or not. To a large extent, we will follow this in the framework of the amendment. If you're saying it's not a problem, I suppose you can accept it. The point is not to raise less money. And the other thing still interests me, Minister Šalomoun. You were in the first commentary proceedings a week ago, you just came up with the term choking effect. To be honest, we've seen it before, and to a large extent we've followed it, and after that week, you've come up with a different opinion. You claimed that the comments were settled and that is why everything is okay. The way our lawyers looked at it, they didn't find out there that it was a mere thing that you criticized that it had a throbbing effect, it was settled, more or less only the details changed. So if you could tell us here - in our opinion, the nature of the problem remains the same - what has changed so fundamentally that at this point we can be significantly calmer and think that the throbbing effect will not occur? Because it can endanger real income in the tens of billions of crowns. I think that's a pretty important thing that we shouldn't cross just by "it's been settled." If you could tell me exactly what changed and what changed your mind. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u65	Thank you. I see that the Minister wants to sign up with priority right, but he still wants to add a point of fact, he still wants to respond, so I will allow it. I'm just gonna ask you as briefly as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u66	Thank you. I'd just finish it, what I started. Then follow the case-law you quoted here, but that's actually part of what my previous speaker said. If I have a regulation that has any efficiency, that means od-do, and I go beyond that regulation - I may think that the European Commission or that it will be shifted, but that is just a supposition. We're in the legal state after all, and if I have a de-do, I can't go beyond something that tells me it's true, and the efficiency is up to 30. 6. That means that even if there's a hypothetical extension, the courts can still come up, and now it depends on how the court interprets it. That's one thing. Another thing: of course, you remember from the past when the Prime Minister - I think it was for Prime Minister Topolánek - imposed a tax on the free emission allowances that caused it, and in the end we went through all the courts and paid 6%, so it was a beautifully saved money that the state then had to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u67	Thank you, and now the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u68	Thank you. I wouldn't say I changed my mind. The problem is, as long as it's really like little time, you're probably referring to the material that was part of the commentary procedure, and that was the material of the compatibility department. It falls under me, but it's an independent union, and I just don't interfere at all. And, as the commentary procedure was really short, there was probably a need to communicate concerns rather than solutions in order for these concerns to be heard at all, and that they would, in some way, be dealt with over time. So I guess what was in there wasn't completely alienated, but like I said, I don't really have a double-tax problem here. I only have a problem with double or multiple taxation having the choking effect. [[11.20 hours]] If you're asking me what to do with tax fraud or how to do it -- well, that's a legitimate question, I just don't know if I can answer it in a clear way, because it's going to be handled by some law enforcement authorities anyway. In the end, they're just gonna look at it with some kind of optical judgment. If I was in the position of a judge, we're still lawyers, and I say in our legal optics, it's tax. I understand that if I was on the other side as a defense attorney, and I'm going to interpret everything in the defense of a client, I'm going to argue that it's not a tax, exactly with the optics that sounded here. But it's hard to say, I'd really like to answer it precisely and precisely, but I don't know how to judge it. And as regards only that year 2023 - yes, if we want this to be exclusively an adaptation of the European regulation, then if it is over half of the year 2023, it is not, so everything beyond that is already a national measure. And, of course, with any national measure, you can get into some collisions. I don't expect them, but I can't rule them out. I really don't have a better answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u69	Thank you. Mrs Peštová came forward with the facts once more. Let me just sum up the fact that six Members and Members are enrolled in the general debate. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u70	I was really getting ready, thank you for the word. That's just when I read the regulation and took an article. 30 or the 30, and it actually says that, yeah, they make this possible. But if you or our state, in fact, interprets the regulation as it pleases, I'd quite like to know that it's built here for sure. If the regulation says by 30. Six, we call ourselves here by the end of the year, okay. If I have here, in the '30s, they're telling me that I can approach it and nothing should happen, I don't know how our state will approach it. That's why I want it to be said here that nothing really happens, that there's no escape, that they can overcompete, because that's what the 30 says, and the moment they do that, they're not gonna be persecuted and sanctioned for it. In addition, they will be said to have attempted some tax evasion because they went below the price of EUR 180.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u71	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u72	As I say, a closer or more secure answer or some closer assurance may not be able to give you. Of course, if we had enough time, we could run it through the work committees, but I understand. I would very much like to do that, then we wouldn't have to worry about this here, I would probably be able to give you more specific answers, but unfortunately, in this situation, as it is, I'm not capable of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u73	Thank you and I will now ask another enrollment, which is Mr Patrik Nacher to approach the counter. But in the meantime, I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Jaroslav Bašta apologizes, from 11 to 13 o'clock for health reasons. I also have the report that Mr Jan Lacina will be Members, who will be voting with a replacement card 31, and Vice-President Skopeček with a replacement card number 28. With this, these duties have been fulfilled, and please, Mr. Ambassador, take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have divided this into several segments to make it clear to those who still have the nerve to listen to us. But I can't forgive my first remark. It's the second or third very important thing we've been discussing in the last two weeks. The O.R. is half empty. There are only two of the ministers involved, and the Secretary of Defense and the rest are not, while tens of billions of crowns are flying here, and then everyone will return to the hall just before the vote. I understood this approach by the coalition and ministers when they were here, and we said in advance that we were going to obsess some things, I understand that, but here, as has been said several times, I said it repeatedly at the windfall tax, and now here we can express fundamental disapproval as much as we do with the budget, but we're never going to do it again. There are six Members registered, well, six Members, five will be reading some amendments there. This means that it is not twenty Members or twenty-five, and yet the interest in such an important standard is so small. I'm the one, don't be mad at me, I had to mention that. Now the rapporteur here corrects me that it's not even six, it's five, because Berenika is even logged in twice, so you can see the better, so it really isn't really occupied. We're just expressing a major disagreement, and given the importance of the material and the fact that we're talking about the first 15 billion, now 80 billion, it's really annoying to me that there are only ministers involved, and the Secretary of Defense and no one else, and the others will be interested in voting. That's the first point. [[Disturbing loud calls in several places in the hall.]] Second: legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u75	Yes, I'll ask those who need to speak to go into the foyer. This is particularly relevant to the left-hand side. And I'll ask everyone to speak on the microphone who wants to speak in this room. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u76	As far as the legislative emergency is concerned, there are a few comments. First of all, we're some things - and I'm not going to repeat here, I'm going to change it a little bit, because I had something prepared and I'm not going to repeat what Karel Havlíček or Alena Schillerová said - we said some things and recipes here in January, February, March, you repeatedly refused. Then you approach it at the last minute, and then you say you don't have time. And that goes really deep, that's conflicting, it goes against each other. No, it's okay, it's okay, Minister, don't interrupt, then sign in. [[Meant Minister Sikel.]] You don't turn yourself in, you're commenting off the microphone, and that's hard to argue with. I know that you will say that the decision at European level was approved on October 6th, but it is true that you could have just done some of these things before. You are constantly making excuses for the European Union. There are a number of countries that have decided some of these things long before that. We are one of the few countries, almost say the only one who always expects what comes from the European Union. Finally, as Minister Šalomoun said here, at this point it is not just an adaptation dimension of the whole thing, but that there are some national elements. And we're not actually able to, and he admitted it here, to tell you what the differences are. And I'm going to be talking about it right here in the compatibility department comment. So if you weren't still making excuses for a pan-European solution, you could have come up with some of those things sooner. And the so-called shame, as you call it, I'm still going to get to that, wouldn't be like that, because you could have taken some measures. At the end of August, you said you wouldn't be ceilinging - you're ceilinging that there would be no special tax - there was a special tax. Everything you've refused, you finally approve here, but very quickly. As far as the damage is concerned, don't be mad at me. That was a fling for me. Because how can it be a shame that the House doesn't discuss anything, a topic related to tax or a levy? I'll give another example so that or any other case how it might turn out to be understandable. What if we vote on this here and that vote doesn't pass, then there's gonna be a damage? Will it be a shame if the House decides not to vote freely? Any suggestions? It can happen! That can happen. This means that you will then say that the Members who voted against the new tax or the levy on excessive income or against anything have actually caused damage. That's what you said in translation, that's how it is. So it is not about whether it will be discussed here at all and in what time period, but then what is the free decision of the Members. In fact, you are saying: all Members must vote for all the proposals that come from the government, otherwise there would be damage. Then I think it's a bad description of this situation. [[11.30 hours]] If I look at the procedural side of the matter, it's the second case that brings about all sorts of confusion. The first one was at the windfall tax, which is what I was talking about when we were discussing it here, where it was originally a government proposal, and eventually it turned into a deputy proposal by Zbyněk Stanjura. On this parliamentary proposal, other members of the coalition have put their amendments in order to withdraw them in various ways just before the third reading vote. That means, until the last moment -- that's the predictability of law, you would say -- it wasn't clear what it would look like. At this point - and here it runs in parallel in principle - it's exactly the same thing. Now it's a government proposal, but they're back, there are five MPs' amendments to the coalition, okay? So, again, you're gonna put something in here that you're doing in the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm willing to pull from the log that these were exactly the kind of things you used to beat the previous government for. I hope that my colleague Adamec will admit that a government proposal will come here, and then the government MPs will add amendments to make it up. And now you're doing the exact same thing. The opposition then - because it is in a legislative emergency and it is all shortened - then has very limited possibilities for the process to be dragged into, how to get involved in the process - apart from some performances that we have here and which are not listening to the same coalition MEPs and ministers - so that we can put some of our suggestions into it. You're actually leaving out the Chamber of Deputies with this -- don't be mad at me -- that's right. And we made it clear in advance, I told you - here, in the hallway, on the microphone - that both in windfall tax and in this case we will not only - and should not even - surround ourselves, but that we will and are willing to proceed to various shortened deadlines. That's right. That means you can't make excuses for anyone saying, "You didn't want to cut our deadlines." It's not like that. So you guys could normally come in here and make a deal, but that's about the communication. You cut it here in a legislative emergency, and then you catch up with the MPs' amendments. I thought we were playing around the windfall tax, and now the same thing is happening. In the material, by the way, from the Office of the Government of Compatibility, it is clearly written that there is no government implementing regulation, which is quite essential. And the minister said - if I remember correctly, here's a note - that he would be in the order of weeks. So we really don't know the insides of this whole thing, because the government's implementing regulations are quite important in this matter. When you look at the notes of this department, it is quite clearly written - and that is not the word of the opposition, that is the word of the department, which is based at the Office of the Government - that the petitioner did not submit a table of distinctions, a table of comparison, it is not clearly verifiable which provisions of the law are adaptable - that is what I was talking about, that is, after all, what Minister Šalomoun has admitted - and which are purely national in nature. There's no clear connection to the windfall tax, and I'll get to that, Alena Schillerová already talked about it. I asked you about the budget committee. Here, two such standards have been adopted, where I think this one is better off in that it cannot be avoided by some tax optimization, while, of course, windfall tax can be bypassed in some way, tax optimization, we have talked about it here. We're running out of words, okay? You originally came up with a total of 100 billion, divided by approximately 85 windfall tax and 15 of this levy. At this point, it looks like a reduction in tax collection - I'm not going to explain the reason, the procedural things - it's happening that the view is completely opposite now, the ratio is completely opposite, which means the windfall tax doesn't go back to 85, but an estimate of 45 according to your words, and here from this not 15, but 80, that means plus 65 billion. Now I'm not going to evaluate the sum - the fact that it's chosen more is for the good of this government and this country, I'm not going to question that, but the ratio is changing completely. And what I'm getting at here is we're actually approving things here where it's going in tens of billions plus minus, and it divides one week. In one week we approved a windfall tax with some perspective of +85 and today we're on half, and in the outlook there was an excess income levy of 15 and now we're four times that. Well, then don't be surprised that, as opposition, we are asking you questions and that we are simply questioning some of these things. So imagine how you'd... you'd be here, you're telling me that if we were designing this, you'd be sitting here in the benches, keeping your mouth shut? You wouldn't ask? You wouldn't care that one week it's 85/15 and the other week it's 45/80 in the ratio? You'd ask, of course, but now you're pretending that it's quite all right. I'm not gonna be here anymore -- my colleague here has gone through too much, if it's a tax, it's not a tax, he says it's -- I asked the minister about it, so I'm not gonna go back to it, if it's a tax, or if it's a regulation of production prices, I think it doesn't matter at the time. What I would like to stop at repeatedly is that I still haven't gotten the answer to the question where, on the basis of the European regulation that allowed those two regimes, somehow resolve the energy crisis, and you actually made such a mix, so if you could explain it to me. One is a solidarity contribution, which was the windfall tax that was supposed to cover areas such as oil, natural gas, coal, refining, and the other is a restriction on market income, that's this levy, and it was supposed to relate to electricity production. But electricity production is also a windfall tax, so therefore legitimate questions about double taxation. And here's a regular question about why you decided to do this. The second question that I had there is that you have price ceilings there, which are graduated, where the European Union gives a ceiling of 180 euros per megawatt hour, and you have different degrees. And I'm impressed by that huge drop where nuclear power is 70 euros per megawatt hour, while brown coal is 170, and 230 even in production with a power output above 140 megawatt, that means... And I got an answer in terms of cost, production, etc., but I didn't get an answer that shouldn't just be taken into account, but that there should still be a vision of the state. This is one of the few things the state can do, individual states can limit themselves, that is, the ceilings of each type of energy they are made of. So I wonder again why we, who consider the core a priority - I hope it is this way - why the price is so low there. Another point concerns that the levy manager should be the Energy Regulatory Authority. In this I am consistent and ask again: The Energy Regulatory Authority is under enormous pressure from consumers, because as prices change, as high prices are, as there is an energy crisis, so more and more consumers logically turn to the ERU, they are not satisfied with the new regulation, with new advances and so on. The Energy Regulatory Authority is already behind schedule, the charge is three times the data I have, and now it will also be the tax administrator, if you like, or the charges - it doesn't matter now. And I wonder if you are prepared to in some way strengthen the Energy Regulatory Authority, if this government is ready to approve my amendment, which goes in parallel with this in the second reading of the National Budget Act for 2023. Because on the one hand, there's CZK 330 billion more in the state's spending, but the movement at the Energy Regulatory Office is at the level of per cent. You throw more and more responsibilities at them, more and more people turn to them, but the budget is not responsible for me. So my point is whether it's gonna work and if you're counting on this. I didn't get an answer for that. I got the answer that the ERÚ could handle it. Don't be mad at me, that's not enough. [[11.40 hours]] In other words, let me sum it up, there might not be a legislative emergency, I think you're taking advantage of it. I'm not a lawyer, but I think you're taking advantage of this because you haven't received any impulse, no information from the opposition that we're blocking you from shortening your deadlines, so we could have a regular discussion here. And I feel like you're gonna figure it out when you're in opposition, because you really don't see it at all right now. You guys aren't even aware that you're really using that legislative emergency for anything right now. The process, the approval and the amendments - I'm not saying that they're wrong, I even agree with them, but I think this is how a sturdy thing is going down, and I said it consistently with the windfall tax, and I'm saying it now, it shouldn't be like this. On such a big matter, it should be a government proposal, and the amendment should, above all, give the opposition, perhaps some coalition MP, but it is actually clear that these coalition amendments are essentially government proposals, which are read here through Members. I've read the sums that it's supposed to bring here. It's unpredictable for me. I would almost want to end it, that if you started with this, the windfall tax might not be here at all. Like I said, it's possible to go around. And I already said in my speech at the windfall tax, you guys aren't really gonna get that $85 billion. But I thought we'd get to that next year, maybe, with the numbers, but you're actually admitting that after a week of approval, you're not gonna be able to raise that $85 billion. So it was for me, and it's a duplicate. And I'll be glad if the Minister finds the strength and answers the microphone, except for the notes he keeps out of his desk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u77	Thank you. Once again, with a factual response to the course of the debate, Mrs Berenika Peštová, and even then President Alena Schillerová came forward with a factual response. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u78	I would like to add another question to my previous speaker. He mentioned the ERÚ here. Under the law of the ERU, it is responsible. Now, of course, on the Economic Committee, we were told that they would help them, they were actually promised by the Ministry of Finance, or that they would be helped by the financial authorities. And my question is, who are those entities to appeal to when the ERU is responsible under the law, the financiers will help, and if the subject doesn't agree to something, he'll want to appeal, who's gonna run the proceedings? Will it be the finance guys, or will it be the ERÚ? Who'll be responsible if it's the ERÚ under the law, but you're actually transferring the competence to the financial guys? Those are things I'd quite like to know. And it's practical things, because this case is bound to happen. So I would like to know who will bear the responsibility or, respectively, who will be the appeal body, which will then be dealt with. And another thing: of course, I'm interested, if there's a shared competence, they'll do it, they'll do it again, they'll do something else, so how are they gonna do it...? Is he going to appeal to the EROs one day and one day he's going to appeal to the Ministry of Finance or to the finance guys? I just don't have the logic. This is just to supplement what Mr Patrik Nacher said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u79	Thank you. Since it is not another factual one, I would now return to the proper admissions. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is next, and Mrs Peštová can also prepare herself with her application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u80	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to correct what my colleague Patrik Nacher said. He said there were all the ministers involved - they're not. There's an important minister missing. The finance minister is missing because his is so... [[Response from the right.]] Yes, here's a clue that he's sick, so I'm sorry. Thank you, my colleague. I'm going to go to something I've already mentioned on the Economic Committee, but I haven't been quite answered. It all died out that I praised that the Ministry had learned to make nice explanatory reports, but nevertheless this explanatory report is really trivial. Ladies and gentlemen, the chapter Assumed economic financial impact of proposed legislation on the state budget, other public budgets, the business environment of the Czech Republic and so on contains a list that something will have an impact on the state budget, but does not mention that this bill should have an impact on the business environment of the Czech Republic. I assume from the name itself - it's a levy - I suppose there will be some influence. I mean, why isn't it in the explanatory report? However, chapter, let me read its name, which is much more extensive than any financial impact - yet there will probably be no financial impact - is an impact assessment in relation to privacy and personal data protection. This chapter seemed more important to the petitioners than how some money would affect a business environment that would have to do something. I mean, I was complimenting you last time, 'cause it was really a good explanatory note that we were discussing about energy at another meeting, but it's really rusty here. I would like not only the Ministry of Industry but also other ministries to put emphasis on the content of the reason reports, not only on the balast, because another ministry will write several pages, but in its essence I can sum up these several pages in two three sentences. So I would ask that, especially for such important laws, the length is not important, but the content. And frankly, the impact of this bill, the anticipated economic and financial impact on the business environment, is simply not in this explanatory report. So I'd like an answer, that's all. My colleague Patrik Nacher has already asked the ERU, so I don't have to ask the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u81	Thank you, too. Now, then, Madame... With priority rights, the President has yet to sign up. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u82	Thank you. I'll be brief. I applied with priority rights because I would no longer respond immediately to the facts. Two things that have been said here. Minister Šalomoun, he is no longer here, unfortunately, talking about it, and here I must give him the truth that even technically, if you look at the law, the text is completely underlined, which means, according to legislative rules, that it is therefore an adaptation of the European regulation - we can discuss it. The only thing that is not underlined is § 95c para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That is what Minister Šalomoun said here that this goes beyond the European regulation. And then here, following Mrs Berenika Peštová - she mentioned actually, she asked about the link between the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is to be the tax administrator, and the link between the Financial Administration's authorities - we will find a partial answer, but you probably need a great fantasy in Section 95g of this law, where it is said, paragraph. 1: "The Energy Regulatory Authority shall administer the excess income levy." Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 says: "Delivery administrator" - this is the ERÚ - "can, under the conditions of the tax rules, request the execution of acts or partial proceedings or other procedures by the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. Disputes between the administrators of the drafts on the execution of the requested acts shall be decided by the Ministry of Finance.' This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3: "The administration of the contributions shall [[11.50 hours]] I went to my explanatory report because, logically, I expected to read the bonds there, what I received from an expert at the Ministry of Finance - finding proceedings, proving, so I would expect them to be in the explanatory report. In Section 95g, the explanatory memorandum is silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u83	And now, with priority, the Minister of Industry and Trade will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u84	I took advantage of my priority... Madam President, Madam Members, because there is still debate on why we are extending, I will try to explain this matter within my priority right. We rely on the article. 8 a pan-European regulation that says that we can maintain or introduce other measures that further limit market revenue. We are currently working with the word "continued," which is why the Czech Government has decided to extend its validity. This is a more transparent and predictable procedure for the Commission. It even states that we can increase, reduce, and even extend the amount to other producers. It is therefore up to the Member State to lay down its own rules which are proportionate, non-discriminatory, for example not endangering investment potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u85	Thank you and this has raised two factual points, so Mrs Berenika Peštová wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u86	Thank you, Minister. So here I have the same regulation that you have, and here I have my article again. 22. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 22 tells me - paragraph 22 Article 4 (1) (a) (c) clearly states: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There are no other interpretations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u87	Thank you for keeping the time, and Mr Jiří Mašek wants to respond to what has been said in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is also on that date for the Minister. If the European Union is talking about 30 there. 6. and you're saying that it's possible to use something else further, so it wasn't in the sense of "longer." The 30th. 6. there was given and you yourself said that if it were further, it would be possible to decide for other subjects. And I'm gonna have to speculate here why you want that other date - because you have something planned on the revenue side, and you just need to get to that number. But there isn't much other reason, because these energy prices things are changing very turbulently, so I understand the European Union's targeting it by 30. 6, but she's not in the state that you have to count 100 billion on the revenue side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u89	I also thank you for keeping time. And we are now returning to the applicants, where Mrs Berenika Peštová is the first to sign up with her contribution, Mr Karel Sládeček will be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u90	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Well, I was expecting, Minister, when you got up, that you were going to tell us a lot more than we're going to be here arguing about whether it's due by June 30th, or whether it's due by the end of the year. I expected you to start talking about the ERÚ, what was mentioned here by my previous speaker, President Schillerová, who clearly told you that she would also like to be clear about it. I'm not clear about this until now. I took the beautiful settlement table from which my eyesight was passing, and I looked at the comments that were made within the Ministry of Finance and within the ERO - Energy Regulatory Office, where, of course, the comments go against each other. I was quite surprised by what I had just heard on the Economic Committee, where it was beautiful - and it said beautifully that there was some agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry in the sense that the ERO would request or have partial proceedings with the Financial Administration authorities and they would help it in terms of tax rules. You know, my husband always says, "You can't put a booger in the file room." What is not written is not given. It's beautiful, but there's nothing like that in the law! Here, when I look at the comments of the Ministry of Finance, which, when he was apparently told that, it says: "Alternative solutions mentioned in point 2 of the general part of the explanatory memorandum in the form of conferral of the authority of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic are not considered appropriate" - the Ministry of Finance - "for a number of following reasons." And now it's listed here about - Jesus Christ, it goes on - about four pages are listed why they don't think it's appropriate. When I look at the ERU, which, on the contrary, wanted to change this competence to the Ministry of Finance, to the financial authorities, here again describe four pages why they can't do it for what reason. According to the proposal submitted, this levy is to be collected and administered by the Energy Regulatory Authority. The Energy Authority does not agree with the proposed solution and applies the fundamental reservations set out below to it. And it's going through the pages again, all the things they can't do. I'm quite interested in how it is possible that in one day or two days you found such a beautiful consensus that the Ministry of Finance will help the ERÚ and then the ERÚ suddenly withdrew and said that it actually knows everything and there is no problem. So that's exactly what was said here at the beginning. It was not transparent. In fact, I have read that Minister Šalomoun has granted an exception, which means that there has been a really long-term review procedure. It lasted from November 4th to November 7th. It started sometimes in the afternoon, the Monday ended at about two o'clock, so really all the ministries and stakeholders had only those three days, of which two were Saturdays and Sundays. Minister Šalomoun himself said that he was very sorry that it did not go through the proper process at the Legislative Council of the Government, which means that it did not go to the Committees of the Legislative Council of the Government and it did not go to plenary. What Minister Šalomoun did not say was that he also made an exception to the absence of impact studies, which was also subject to an exception. Here we go again. Yes, it's the pirát who said they wouldn't let go of their lives and it wouldn't happen the way it happened historically. [[Minister Síkel.]] Are you taking pictures, Minister? No, you take pictures of people upstairs. I was scared. Thank you. I wanted to smile. So he's not gonna let it go through a proper legislative process, and, look, it's another one of the x laws that go that way. So I'm hoping, after what I've actually spoken in terms of the ER and the Ministry of Finance, that you can explain to us how it is possible that you find such a beautiful consensus when the MPŘ lasts three days over the weekend. I'm logged in once more, and I'm going to apply to my amendments, which I'm here to try to justify. But I would like this discussion to take place, and not that everything will take place later in the final word, when we will not be able to express ourselves, because someone would have to open the debate afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u91	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Karel Sládeček's turn to prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. And I'm gonna ask you to take the floor, and I'm gonna say goodbye to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies, gentlemen, many have already been told by my predecessors. Let me briefly comment on this proposal for the SPD. The SPD will not support this proposal for at least two reasons. The first reason, in our opinion, is double taxation, which cannot be supported, and secondly, this proposal is again discussed quickly, at the last minute. We do not like this and do not want to support this practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u93	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a nice noon and we will continue the debate. I will now ask Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová to speak and Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. I don't see the MP anywhere, in which case I'm going to check her out and ask for another enrollment, and this is Mrs. Berenika Peštová. I don't see it anywhere either, so in that case, I'll erase it. And I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? Madam, you made it. So she signed up from the scene... [[Both Members came at the same time.]] Only assuming you agree with each other, who will perform... In that case, madam, please. [[The rapporteur outside the microphone has a note.]] Mr. Rapporteur, please... You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u94	So I said I was logged in again, I didn't know it was going to fly so fast, I couldn't even... Okay. So I tabled three amendments together with my colleagues. One amendment - it concerns the municipal one already mentioned - it is the ZEVO, the combustion where you actually went to the ZEVO for 100 euros. And I did such a small screening quickly by doing the waste bill, and it actually falls to the Ministry of the Environment in my opinion, so there is no problem getting the information, of course I made a few calls and I found that this price really is for some fatal, those 100 euros. So I tabled an amendment saying that we raised it from 100 to 180 euros. This is the first amendment. And I'm saying, when I went over my fingers about how much it should be, we're talking about 100 million, in the estimate of the billions you're saying here, it shouldn't be a problem for you up to 100 million. When I think that Prague would now fall with about 35 million or almost 40, I think that if you really had done that quick screening, you would have figured it out just as much as I would, which is why I put the 180 in there, or we put the 180 euros in there after we talked to our colleagues. The other amendment that I put there concerns auditors, and that means that you have actually transferred things to those auditors or transferred activities that they do not do themselves, it is complicated for them. The notabene auditor cannot continue to communicate these facts because he is under some secrecy. That means the law would have to deal with the fact that you're taking him out of his silence and so on, so I modified it. And I don't think it's against anything. And, of course, the last amendment that was put in there is mentioned, what was very accented here, that is, what the Government's regulation says. The government's order says... or sorry, the European Union's regulation says it's due by 30 June, you're violating the regulation and you're going to the end of the year. So we're going back to what the regulation says, that means 30. 6. So three amendments, which I will, of course, sign up to in a detailed debate afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u95	Thank you, too, Madame. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who is now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u96	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members. I would like to comment on this bill, in relation to the fact that we recently had a law here on the tax package that dealt with taxes on extraordinary profits, and I took this tax, that it was presented by the Minister of Finance, where I fought very hard for it - and with my colleagues in the ANO movement - because it was automatically a corporation tax to which cities, municipalities and regions are entitled. This bill and this contribution are presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is the nominee for Mayors and Independents, and I am all the more surprised that this bill once again appears that cities, municipalities and regions will not be entitled to this tax. I would like to say that the tax on extraordinary profits has been mentioned here that the revenue for the budget will be around 80 to 100 billion, and within this bill presented, it will be only 15 billion, and now we learn that the amount will be much higher. This means that cities, municipalities and regions will lose large funds. I therefore consider and assume that the Minister of Industry and Trade will support my amendment, together with colleagues who have signed on to this amendment, which says that the town, municipality and region will be entitled to this because it is based on the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes. I see at this moment that the Minister of Industry and Trade is very upset here, along with his colleague, the chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Adamec, who was or is a long-time mayor, so I do not understand how he cannot fight for cities, municipalities and regions. And even in connection with what my colleague Karel Havlíček said here today that the law doesn't say that the funds selected will go into energy support - that means that the government will get a blank check and then it can do whatever it wants with the funds. And I'm not gonna remind you that we have the most ministers here, that we're gonna have countless political deputies, that we're gonna have swell state administration and so on, that we have five deputies, and that's how I can continue. So I believe that cities, municipalities and regions have an irreplaceable role, it is clearly set: government, county, city, community. And I believe that, and when I also communicate with individual mayors, with the Unions of Towns and Municipalities, they have a lack of funding for both investment parts and other parts. And once again, I repeat one important argument. Any mayor, any chieftain can write a grant program to support energy. It can draw up this subsidy programme under budgetary rules, it can target the most vulnerable groups, and each mayor knows best the structure of his population. So why not give it to those with it - yes, well managed certainly, and the counterargument will be that cities and municipalities have enough money - so that cities and municipalities are well managed, so for that we will take away something to which they are entitled. I said it in the last speech that I would understand if the Minister of Finance had called cities and municipalities and individual organizations and said: Within the budgetary determination of taxes, you are entitled to 25.84 %, so let's agree on some other percentage, but you will get some of these funds because you will use them efficiently, efficiently and economically and not keep the funds, giving them to the people. You provide all services, whether it be in the field of health, education, social affairs, whether it be in the field of public transport or in other areas. [[12.10 hours]] I am even more sorry - because the last time I swear in quotation marks, I would call it, Mr. Finance Minister - it is worse for me at the moment that this bill is being presented by someone for the starosta and Independents. The fact that when a windfall tax was discussed here, no one from STAN got off, no one said anything about it, at the moment it's even worse for me, and I think that practically the Mayors and Independents are making a bill that is in quotes with a hot needle. Colleagues have spoken about these other things, but the other terrible thing is that you want to take something from cities and municipalities and regions to which they are entitled. So, in this spirit, I am putting forward, Minister, an amendment and again I would like to ask you to... Because you weren't the mayor. I understand that if you don't go through the communal sphere, you don't know how, what mayors and generals have to do. I think that within the covid, in the context of the migration wave from Ukraine, they provide a great deal. He deserves a huge thank you. I think there's been a lot of letters from the Union of Cities and Cities. Only what I can do now, when I talk to them, they still think it's only 15 billion, but as we see it, the amount will be much higher. The problem is more serious that you want to take it to the most important ones, which are the mayors, the captains, but above all the citizens of the individual cities. So then, Minister, I will sign up for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u97	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points, so just for the record. Is Mrs Peštová reporting properly or with a factual remark? [[In fact.]] So your first point of fact, then Mr Adamec's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u98	I'll be very brief. I would beg you, Minister, if you would speak before the final word, because then the debate is over and we can no longer speak. So if I may ask and we may behave democratically and politely towards each other, please step forward before the closing argument so that we can respond to whether we like your answer or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u99	Thank you. Mr Adamec is here now, then Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u100	All right, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, when Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová rightly challenged me, as former mayor, I do not understand how you found out that the municipalities will have nothing to do with the contribution. I don't get it. Who will pay the ceiling for cities, municipalities and regions? Well, maybe the state and this one that's chosen. Even the European directive or the regulation says that it is money that only serves to cover electricity and gas. There's even less money than the total amount of the state's ceiling, so I don't know how you figured it out. Please, really don't be mad at me, mayors and captains get it in the form of a splash. That share is secured there, and it's due to how it's designed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u101	Thank you, too. Mr Kaňkovský withdrew his comment. Now, then, Mrs Renata Oulehlová. Do I still want to ask, Minister, if you are applying properly or with a factual remark? [[In fact.]] In fact, in that case, the honourable Member and then your point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u102	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam Secretary. I would therefore like to respond through the President. Yes, the ceiling will be, but the price will just be completely different. We paid CZK 1,200 last December. Now we're paying, I've got it here, $9,000. And what difference does that make? That's all the taxes have been collected. You're laughing... I feel sorry for you, then, for the way you treat us. Shame on you, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u103	Now, with a factual remark, Minister Síkela is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u104	I'd just like to ask that we say things the way they are and not the way they're not, and that we don't tell the truth here. Right in the regulation - and it runs around here all the time - but right in the regulation it says that the funds selected will only be used to support end-users of electricity. Only to support end-users of electricity, so that we can get this straight again. Cities and municipalities will receive money from this selection just through the crop prices. So if anyone here is saying something else, they're not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u105	Two more factual points by Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mrs Renata Oulehlová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u106	Well, that's exactly it, Minister, that's what we're talking about in this regulation. I also read the justification number 30, which says that what was going on here, the beautiful discussion with Minister Šalomoun: if the community that has two companies goes, one produces, the other will buy electricity from the producer, the owner is the municipality, so it goes below the price of 180 euros, because the regulation says it can, if it is from renewable sources, so the regulation says so. Now I ask, will she be looked at as doing tax evasion, or will she not be looked at as doing tax evasion? Minister Šalomoun said to me: I cannot answer you. The regulation says that the end is June 30th, and you will find a word that is not there at all, I do not see it here at all, the entry into force and application of this regulation. That means the date is final, there's no other date. And some words that we read there, that it could be used for another -- no, it doesn't say anything like that at all. It clearly states that Articles 6, 7 and 8 shall apply from 1 December to 30. 6. 2023. But Minister, I expect you to answer what we asked you. [[I won't answer.]] But how come you won't answer what we asked? You're obliged to answer us what we're asking you. We are the legislators, you are the minister, but we are the legislators and we accept the law. So answer me, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u107	Thank you. As another Member of the Renata Oulehlová, with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u108	I will repeat this once again, through the President, for the Minister. We still paid 1,200 crowns in December. After the ceiling we will pay CZK 7,129 without tax. We are not tax payers, so add tax, and still the difference of 13 months is CZK 1,200 against CZK 7,129 without tax. I don't see... if you think you're saying someone's lying, it's not us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u109	We have all the proper applications settled, so I want to ask if anyone else is applying from the scene? Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure I have a reaction to Mr. Adamec's colleague. Well, I don't know, I don't know about that. So we have some kind of tax-based bill. The Act on the budgetary determination of taxes refers to the fact that municipalities, municipalities and regions are entitled to corporate tax. When I look at the amendment to the State Budget Act, into the budget, it's headed there as a corporation tax. In today's document, you're running it as an income from electricity tax. So can somebody explain it to me? Because if I read that this is a corporate tax, it is a claim tax for cities, municipalities and regions. Me with you, Mr. former mayor - I think if you were mayor, you would definitely fight for cities, communities and regions. [[12.20 hours]] I am simply convinced that, as was the case with the tax on extraordinary profits, let this be the case with this levy, that there should have been negotiations with the authorities and that they should have been agreed with them. I have no consent from them. If they had said to me, Yes, the Union of Cities and Cities, you all registered, a number of letters came to you, I would surely have said, Yes, the mayors do not want it. But the mayors are very much in touch. And I also think that, after discussing this here in the House or just before, there was a meeting at the Office of the Government, where the svaz clearly said that it did not agree, and yet it was pushed through here. So I think it's very, very unfair to what these mayors are doing, and I think there's certainly a lower coefficient to agree on, but I'm sure the zero isn't fair to those mayors at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u111	Thank you, too. I don't see any more applications from the site, and in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word before I open a detailed debate? Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. So I am opening up a detailed debate. First is Mr Tomáš Müller, then Mr Ivan Adamec and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u112	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to sign up to Amendment 1642. This amendment addresses the adaptation of the Council of the European Union Regulation No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 shall be stated: "Each Member State shall determine hours representing peak periods corresponding to a total of at least 10 per cent of all hours during the period from 1 December 2022 to 31 March 2023. The obligation to set and publish peak hours shall be entrusted to the Energy Regulatory Authority with the submission to the national regulatory authority of other market participants, in particular the transmission system operator and, where appropriate, others, of the supporting documents for determining peak hours. The Energy Regulatory Authority shall be entitled to request documentation for the exercise of its powers under Section 15a of the Energy Act.' This is a technical amendment. It is discussed with the Energy Regulatory Authority, it agrees, and I will be grateful and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Václav Král will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u114	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, government, this is an amendment that - I will not cover - is from the workshop of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, let us put it bluntly. I have given it away to more or less the presidents and opposition MPs, because he is not quite simply written. In fact, if I take this very briefly, it is an amendment that will allow prices to be ceilinged even for large companies, and it is done in the form of authorisation, which will subsequently be implemented by the Government's regulation. That's all for now. Otherwise, the House press is under number 1643 and it is a proposal that is justified, and I would like to say, it is also written in the draft amendment that this amendment is supported by the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u115	Thank you, too. So now, Mr Václav Král, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, after the debate we had on the Economic Committee, I would like to sign up to my amendment number 1648, which aims to bring the petitioner's proposal into line with the Council of the European Union's regulation and to remove some kind of application uncertainty. In the European Regulation, the levy on income from electricity produced from waste is to be supplemented by, say, a general definition of what we also know in our country that waste is a substance or object that the holder wants to dispose of. However, the petitioner in that number (g) narrowed this waste group only to municipal waste, i.e. only to sorted waste or mixed municipal waste, that is, household waste, and, if relevant, to wastes arising from agriculture, forestry and other industries, that is to say, waste of a biological nature such as wood or biological waste. [[the following ……]] This means that I would like to clarify this inaccuracies with this amendment, suggest extending the definition to all waste, not only municipal waste, but also to clarify the classification of the electricity that will be produced from biomass. This is already done in points (e) and (f). Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u117	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u118	I would take the liberty of signing up to the amendment under number 1653 and it is the amendment that I mentioned in the general debate, and that is that there are added words that it will be the income of regions, municipalities in proportion to the legislation governing the budgetary determination of taxes. And I would like to add that this is not only my amendment, but also another 29 Members from our parliamentary club, mostly municipal politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u119	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Jiří Mašek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u120	I would like to sign up for the Parliamentary document 1649, which I justified in the general debate, that is, where I went out of the 100 euros or where we went together with Mr Kubíček from 100 euros to 180 euros concerning incinerators or Zev respectively. And another House document 1651, I also justified this in the general debate, where the obligation given to auditors is abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u121	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Jiří Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to House document 1650. It is the amendment of Berenika Peštová, Jiří Mašek and Roman Kubíček and concerns the extension of the date of application of the measure to 1. 12. 2022 to 30. 6. 2023. It has been repeatedly discussed here and we do not see any reason to change the deadline that was set by the Council of the European Union, and that was the deadline until 30. 6. 2023. And if the only purpose on the revenue side is actually to increase fictional income by six months next year, I think it is little and that the European Union's demand should be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u123	Thank you. Now, then, from Mr Kučera's post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u124	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would simply briefly discuss the Houses of Document 1641, which deals with market revenues for all power plants using water energy using the dam tank. I have read this House document into the system, but it has already become part of the resolution of the Economic Committee, so it will be voted in the resolution of the Economic Committee, and I will therefore not report to this separate House document 1641 as it will be voted in the resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-001-001.u125	Thank you. I don't see anyone else enrolled in a detailed debate? That's right. I'm ending the debate in detail. And I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word? Mr. Secretary? Minister Síkela, do you want the final word or not? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Rapporteur? Not either. So, according to the approved procedure, I am now finishing the second reading of this proposal and returning to the third reading, as is the agreement, after the conclusion of the consultation of paragraph 169, which we have on the agenda today. So I'm interrupting this point. [[12.30 hours]] And I am opening another point - thank you both to the rapporteur and to the Minister - opening another point
