ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point you have received the House document number 628 and I will ask that the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan speak now for the excused Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ministers, colleagues, thank you for the floor. As has already been said, I apologise and represent Prime Minister Fiala here, who cannot be present today for health reasons in the Chamber of Deputies. On 3 April, the 30-day period for which we announced an emergency as a government in connection with the large-scale migration wave will end. The war in Ukraine began on February 24. In total, more than 10 million people, more than a quarter of Ukraine's 37 million inhabitants, had to leave their homes. Across the border of this number of 10 million people have fled at this time 3.9 million people looking for help, looking for new homes. Most of them are mothers who run away with children. We can see it ourselves on the figures in the Czech Republic, when the children's population is almost 50 percent of all arriving in our country. In the Czech Republic, we granted 236,000 statuses of temporary protection by yesterday. I would just like to draw attention to one thing to see that the Czech Republic has a very good system running, because it is a whole third of all special visas issued in the European Union. Of course, that doesn't match the numbers. Poland has a much larger number of refugees in absolute terms than the Czech Republic, Germany, although it does not appear to have a larger number of refugees from Ukraine than the Czech Republic in absolute terms, but, of course, we are one of the most affected countries in absolute terms. But the registration, which is important, is also important for the safety of the citizens of the Czech Republic, we manage it very well fortunately. We must admit that at this point, we are experiencing the greatest European migration wave that we have ever known since World War II. I would like to remind you once again that all the type plans that the Czech Republic had prepared for a large-scale migration wave spoke of 20,000 refugees a month, and at that moment it was referred to as a large-scale migration wave. We now have about 300,000 refugees in the Czech Republic in one month, mostly women and children from Ukraine. The Czech Government is doing its utmost to cope with the surge of arrivals, and I am convinced that we are doing so thanks to the incredible wave of solidarity of Čech, citizens of the Czech Republic, who are doing their utmost for them in a difficult time, to stand up as a state, and that we should be able to provide refuge, temporary refuge, protection for the wives and children of those who defend their country in Ukraine against Russian aggression. But let me also thank the opposition. I thank the opposition for not giving us a hard time at the moment, for supporting government proposals in the resolution in the Chamber of Deputies, and for showing that as a Czech society, as a Czech political representation, we are able to recognize the real state of things, the real peace and the depth of the crisis that we are going through at the moment. I'm sure you deserve a thank you for that. And I would like to ask you in advance today's debate in this very spirit, in substance, on the basis of the arguments, to ask questions that we will answer, but not to question the very nature of the thing that is happening around us. Russia's aggression, Putin's aggression, an aggression that has no parallel in postwar history, when one state is a victim and one is an aggressor, and we are a country that is trying to help. We all know that we are coming to the edge of our capacities in the Czech Republic, and I frankly say that at this point, we need the help of other states. That is why, yesterday at an extraordinary meeting at the Council of Ministers in Brussels, I asked to allocate funds from approved European Union funds in the field of home affairs. I believe that a good system of registration and exchange of information on refugees must start to work at that European level. I had a question from my colleague Lang about that last time, as well as during the interpellation. Yes, the European registration system is not perfect yet. We don't have enough permeable systems yet, and it's a challenge for the next few weeks. The Czech Republic, thanks to firefighters, police officers and, of course, all captains, manages the crisis, is at the top of Europe in the aid system. We have created the so-called KACPU, the regional assistance centers for helping Ukraine. The Central Crisis Staff has been meeting twice a week since 24 February, always discussing the current situation and trying to respond quickly to all the comments that come from the regions. I want to apologize in advance that I won't be here for a while after 11 o'clock, because we have a video conferencing with the commanders who, in turn, want to deal with the operational issues that appear in the context of the resolution of the crisis at that regional level. Putin isn't just fighting in Ukraine. They are also at war with us in the sense of the word. Ukrajinec need help in their fight and, as the Ministry of the Interior, as the Czech Government, we are doing our utmost to do so. Despite the first surge in Prague and Central Bohemia, we have decided to redistribute the arrivals throughout the Czech Republic. Most of them are mothers with children, and if they can choose whether to stay in the busy Central Bohemia Region or in Prague in the gymnasium, or to go to the Zlín Region for example and get better accommodation, we are also doing the relocation within the Republic quite effectively and successfully. It is important to remember that the structure of people who come to the Czech Republic has changed. In those first ten days, only 10 percent of them required some system assistance from the Czech state. Most of them went to their families, their relatives, their acquaintances. At present, it is almost 70 percent of people who come and don't know where, don't know who they're going to, and are actually dependent on the Czech state, we in our centres were able to provide quick and effective assistance. Despite their own problems, Čech are willing to help not only materially, but also with accommodation of Ukrajinec at home. And this kind of help is the greatest benefit for us, and it will certainly lead to the fact that the arrivals from Ukraine will be able to adapt to our environment when they want to stay with us until the end of the war. We are also trying to help these families, motivate them. We came up with a contribution to the accommodated person in the family of 3,000, with a maximum of CZK 12,000 a month. [[10.20 hours]] Even though we managed to cope with the first attack, even though the current wave of arrivals seems less intense, we all feel that unfortunately the war in Ukraine is not over. People are still running from bombed houses, cities that are under attack. They attack the civilian population, and many times people come to the Czech Republic who have nothing. In the first wave, they were people who could secure their existence in a foreign state and along their own lines. At this point, the situation is harder. I also believe that there are still reasons for continuing the emergency situation. The emergency situation, and I would like to point out, is a classic instrument of crisis management. The emergency situation because of the pandemic that met us in previous years got a pejorative label in the ears and minds of Czech people. They had him connected to something that limits their rights immediately. They had him linked to something that meant curfew after a certain hour, a ban on travel from county to county, or, for example, restrictions on the operation of certain services provided. No such thing is happening at the moment, no such government of the Czech Republic is planning such a thing. I'm going back to the type plan for a large-scale refugee wave, and the type plan from the beginning says that with a large migration wave, which means more than 20,000 incoming in one month, an emergency-state instrument is activated. This is, of course, particularly the processes associated with providing emergency accommodation for refugees, the operational purchase of funds to ensure the basic needs of refugees, and the provision of rapid, efficient, targeted and also Ukrajinec humanitarian aid. This is, of course, much easier in an emergency situation, and if there is any particular claim from the Ukrainian party, then we as a close partner of Ukraine, which we have shown since the beginning of the crisis, want to help quickly, targeted. And, of course, the emergency is also helping us to do so. On the basis of the agreement that fell at the meeting of the Government of the Czech Republic, we propose to extend the emergency situation in the Czech Republic as a result of a large-scale migration wave from Ukraine until 31 May 2022, as there is no reason to assume, and again, unfortunately, I say that the number of inhabitants of Ukraine who enjoy temporary protection in the Czech Republic would fall significantly within the next two months. The request to extend the emergency situation by two months may be unusual, but it is necessary for the government and all police officers, firefighters and captains who have been working in this regime for two months. The current emergency situation is indeed different from the one in the covido period, but please make it easier by our decision of the Chamber of Deputies to work with members of the integrated rescue system, to help the captains, but at the same time guarantee that we will not interfere with the normal lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. That's what we promised at the beginning, that's what we promised in our government's declaration of emergency, and I dare say that we fulfilled this promise and this introductory information completely. If, of course, there is a situation in the most optimistic option that an emergency will no longer be necessary, there is, of course, an insurance policy on how to end the emergency sooner. It will again be your right, the right of elected representatives, the law of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again, thank you for the possible support of our government proposal, thank you in advance and I look forward to a cultivated debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. There are now four priority rights with interest in speaking in the debate. I'll take the order first. First is President Tomio Okamura, then President Alena Schillerová, then Vice-President Věra Kovářová, and last with priority rights is Minister Marian Jurečka. And before we proceed to the first priority right, I will give my apologies when Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes today between 10.00 and 14.30 for reasons of work, further apologizes to Mrs Eva Decroix for the whole day for reasons of work, Minister Stanjura today within 11 hours for reasons of work. So many apologies, and I can ask for the first speaker with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD will vote against the government's proposed illegal extension of emergency status. This is what the chairman of the STAN movement and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, along with Prime Minister Petr Fiala, suggests. Minister, you're telling me here again that he's proposing a government, but don't get rid of responsibility. You are fully responsible for the emergency situation here, so you, Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. So the fact that you're trying to throw responsibility behind my back at the whole government now is one thing, but I'm still gonna get to that in my speech. But you're the responsible person. Fully! So the government of Petr Fiala announced an emergency first from 4 March 2022 for 30 days. You see, I've got it here, it's the whole government, too. And today, the coalition government, the government coalition of SPOLU, which is the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, demands to extend the emergency situation not by another 30 days, but by 58 days straight. An extension of more than 30 days at once is illegal not only in our opinion, but also according to most constitutional lawyers. An announcement of an emergency is an extreme emergency situation which gives the government quite extraordinary powers in the event of a declaration or extension thereof. The SPD is refusing not only an emergency, but we also refuse to give this government a blank check for the next two months in order to order hoteliers and accommodation service providers, among other things, to continue to provide their accommodation capacities for refugees, and to make purchases without tenders by the government. All measures relating to refugees can be addressed through much more moderate measures of existing crisis legislation than an emergency, for example by declaring a state of danger. The SPD will therefore vote against the extension of the emergency situation. Here it must be said that the Fialův Government has completely forgotten our citizens and overlooks the fact that there are many Czech citizens in an emergency. And because of the inactivity of Petr Fiala's government, our fellow citizens are in need today, tomorrow and the day after, no matter what the government announces now. And it will be precisely because of this government, which does not give a shit about people's problems in the Czech Republic and does not address the cost of energy, food, fuel and housing. We ask the government of Petr Fiala to finally announce where the ceiling is for receiving refugees from Ukraine. Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself acknowledged that the Czech Republic is already at the very edge of its capacity. We are currently registering more than 320 000 refugees from Ukraine on our territory and others are still coming. Government officials say that refugees from Ukraine's 45 million are to be accepted indefinitely and that most of them will remain with us permanently. At the same time, Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS contradicts himself when he claims that the Czech Republic is already at the very edge of its capacity, which (?) According to him, 2% of the domestic population is manageable for the Republic. However, this line has long been overcome. The SPD is asking the government to finally announce the plan, and where is the ceiling for receiving refugees. [[10.30 hours]] We believe it is right to help refugees from Ukraine, but only adequately and for the necessary time and after the end of the conflict in Ukraine should they return to build their home country. After all, this is also the position of the Danish Prime Minister. Denmark is a country with half the population of the Czech Republic, a country richer than the Czech Republic, and the clearly Danish Prime Minister says that they expect refugees from Ukraine who are in Denmark to return to Ukraine. So the SPD's position is in line with other democratic countries west of us. But the government sees it differently, Petr Fiala's government sees it differently. In this, the SPD's position is fundamentally different from that of the Fialův Government and the ANO movement. The government is still not taking major measures in the reception of refugees, and our Republic will not be able to cope economically and socially with this situation. Our citizens have legitimate concerns about the sustainability of our health and social system, the situation on the labour market, in education and are plagued by the price increase. The Fialův Government refuses to solve the problems of Czech citizens, and that is wrong. Czech citizens continue to pay due to the inactivity of government overpriced prices of energy, fuel, food and housing. Bread can cost up to 60 crowns, even according to some estimates up to 100 crowns. War conflict in Ukraine also affects rising wheat prices in the Czech Republic. Ukraine is known as the grain of Europe, but because of the ongoing war conflict, its cultivation will be threatened. The Czech Republic should therefore, according to the Association of Bakers and Confectioners, significantly limit exports of wheat, the price of which has doubled year-on-year due to fighting in Ukraine. Normal bread could cost 60 to 100 crowns this year. The sharp increase in wheat further deepens the problems of bakers who face rising energy or fuel prices, thus facing existential problems. The wheat is currently traded for an average of CZK 11 000 per tonne, with a ton of CZK 5 500 last March. It is totally unacceptable for the SPD to export wheat, while at home our bakers were forced to make pastries more expensive for our citizens. We repeatedly call on the current government of Petr Fiala to act. That's why I'm talking about it here. Because the government treats strangers as ours, but also ours as strangers. And we say don't forget our citizens. Of course, the government doesn't give a shit about them. I'm saying, of course, because I know this five-calice and her thinking very well. Czech citizens thus continue to pay due to the inactivity of government overpriced energy, fuel and food prices, even though the wholesale gas price has fallen by about 70 percent in 14 days. The coalition government of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN thus leaves Czech citizens in increasingly existential problems, and everything continues to get expensive for our citizens and our citizens poor. Here I would also point out that this year we have a 40% increase in new executions in the Czech Republic compared to the situation six months ago, according to data published by a Fellow of the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences. This is the result of Petr Fiala's failure to act. All of this is unacceptable to the SPD. A government that can't solve the problems of Czech citizens and who gives a shit about them should resign. I'm talking about it in connection with the need, because the government here is asking to declare an emergency. Moreover, the government lied, specifically the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, President of STAN, when he said that the emergency situation would not affect Czech citizens. We all remember your sentence, Minister. You lied because everyone in the Czech Republic sees that it affects even every citizen, the consequences of what you are doing in the current situation. So you should have admitted it, but you should have admitted it. Yes, it will affect all citizens. I'm not assessing the relationship with refugees right now, I'm making that very clear. We say yes to help, but we say a reasonably and necessarily necessary time. So help yes, we all agree here. But then we no longer agree on the next approach and further implementation or other solution to this matter. So that's not what this is about. But you shouldn't have lied to people about not touching people. You can all see that the situation is affecting them. By the way, it will also be interesting to say, and a fellow Member has prepared here, in how many countries are actually declared an emergency that is facing the wave of refugees from Ukraine. Because according to our information, it's probably only in the Czech Republic, the so-called emergency situation. So it is also another matter to discuss that most countries do not have the emergency state declared, and according to our findings it is only in the Czech Republic. But maybe the Minister here will tell us why the Czech Republic has the emergency situation. So helping people in need is right. It's more like homeless people in need. But Petr Fiala's government forgets that we have people in need, people on the street, people in poverty and problems among our citizens. And here's the different view that the SPD has because you just don't give a shit about our citizens. You are not a government for the citizens of the Czech Republic. I think a lot of citizens are already seeing this, and I'm sure many people are writing to you, too, not that they aren't. I know that. But you're like deaf and blind and you've got a head in Brussels or somewhere in the clouds. What we are asking is that the government remembers that our citizens, who have spent their entire lives paying taxes, have built values, and today some are completely helpless because of health or old age, and many are entitled to lower social assistance than some of the citizens of Ukraine. By creating this inequality, the government creates anger among people. In general, the public thinks that the emergency situation is to allow the government of Petr Fiala to throw our citizens' money away generously under the pretext of a crisis that, instead of reducing it, you are increasing it to the maximum. Yes, and I think that this view of citizens is entirely legitimate. I hear it a lot. Every war and conflict has its refugees, and people in need must be helped. However, there is a difference between acute aid to people in need and, on the contrary, generous incentives to move to the Czech Republic. The government spends CZK 5 000 per refugee per year on a flat-rate grant, which is gradually increasing to 12 000 per household today. According to our findings, the dose per fugitive is CZK 5,000 higher than the Polák and Slovák give. It is a question of why our citizens, who are proven to be in material distress, do not receive an equally high dose. It is a so-called subsistence allowance, which is currently paid for one single adult of CZK 410 per month, with such a person paying for his or her own living costs as opposed to refugees. I know the cases of our pensioners who rent a hostel higher than their pension, and they haven't even been able to make a living for years. How do you explain a 75-year-old retiree, Home Secretary Do you vědět Rakušan who worked her whole life to get a thousand just because the hostel owner doesn't meet any bureaucratic conditions? On the other hand, he gets thousands for housing a family where a husband, for example, works and makes tens of thousands a month. I'm sure I'd like you to react so you don't turn it around again by simplifying the conditions at the hostel. That wasn't the point of that thing. On the contrary, we here propose a law to end the abuse of doses that is inadaptable. Now I'm talking about the really needed ones, and I'm comparing the amount of support you're giving them. So it's not about the conditions. Because you always demagogically twist it in your direction, even though no one means it. [[Minister Austrian - remark off microphone.]] And don't tell me to keep it. Speak to the microphone. At the same time, explain your sponsors at last and Mr. Polčák. That would be ideal. But we're calling an emergency meeting to do that, and we're gathering signatures. So that's the point. Why did he charge 47,000 an hour to meet with the SPD without telling us? That's what you should explain why you're doing it in the STAN movement. So don't call me "keep it." Please explain your cases first. That's not what you're supposed to do. I thought you were here to say something on the microphone and mention your stuff. [[10.40 hours]] This disabled elderly woman I'm talking about and whose case we know specifically, she doesn't need misinformation sites to figure out that there's a terrible injustice going on here. She doesn't need to be Putin's friend to be mad at you in the government that you're actually stealing from her. In this debate, it is not who is and is not pro-Russian or pro-Ukrainian, but who is pro- and anti-Czech. If the Fialův Government is so solidarity, it should also take care, or above all, of a fair settlement of conditions for our people, for our citizens of the Czech Republic. Among other things, refugee accommodation allowances will be provided by hostels, amounting to CZK 250 per day per refugee, that is to say 7,500 per month per occupied bed. Today, some of the owners of the residential hotels are evicting Czech tenants, i.e. singles, pensioners or the poorest families, and instead want to accept newcomers from Ukraine for a higher profit from the state refugee contribution. Thus, efforts to help one group of vulnerable persons lead to damage and discrimination against other socially weak, in this case our own Czech citizens. Dear Government, if the current willingness to help Ukrainian refugees can relieve hostility, please do not make excuses for anything other than your unwillingness to be fair to everyone and complain about your visible unwillingness to help Czech citizens. Personally, I see more than just the economy. The emergency situation helps you even more to defend the limitations of the already limited constitutional freedoms and human rights of our citizens. First of all, it is the human right to freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. What we have not only warned about in the long run over the years is becoming increasingly frightening. During the government's covid hysteria, censorship and combating other than official opinion strengthened under the pretext of combating misinformation. The censor of individual speeches on the Internet has crossed conceivable boundaries until recently, so tens of thousands of people have banned discussions and some information sites have been destroyed. The National Theatre banned the opera Čajkovský on Gogolův's fairy tale. Unfortunately, ukrajinec Gogol took the liberty of writing a fairy tale that is inappropriate in the context of the war in Ukraine today. From this point of view, it is not about covid or Ukraine at all, it is about joining the trend in the West, where, under the pretext of correctness, opinions and speeches are suppressed, which do not agree with multiculturalism and the twisting of history, the twisting of natural laws and simple, clearly visible facts. Freedom of speech, freedom of speech and the right to information either is or is not. The Nazis banned and punished listening to foreign radios, and the communist radios funded by the Američan were jamming. Interestingly, in the UK, with long democratic practice during the war, no one disturbed or punished Nazi propaganda. And again, I'd hate for someone to give me anything other than what I'm saying here as a fact. Democracy, among other things, is basically a statement Voltaire did not say, but his principles really defended: "I do not agree with what you say, but until death I will defend your right to say it. " One legitimate opinion is totalitarianism, no matter what anyone says about it. The fact that a different opinion is called disinformation is an absurd twist of reality. Yes, for years, I have been calling for lying and twisting of facts, for example, in some media. Surprisingly, no one wants that because lying in the media is allowed in our country, you just have to lie for the right propaganda and ideology. On the other hand, I have to stand up for a number of journalists, because I've been in the media for almost 30 years, that most of those decent journalists, of course, are unfortunately getting it for those who aren't really writing here. The founder of our state, Masaryk, also defined democracy as a free discussion. In 1919, when he spoke to a group of soldiers in Czechoslovakia, our president said this: "Each one must always bear the opinion of another. There is freedom, freedom in democracy. Democracy," was said, "meaning debate, it must not interfere with anyone who has a different and opposite opinion. Despite the differences of political life, you have to live friendlyly, learn to respect other people's opinion, hear reasons. You can argue with each other, but always as friends who care about the matter." End of quote by President Masaryk. Those words never stopped and they never stopped paying. Government officials - typically the STAN movement likes to look back on the United States of America, and Mr Farský has kept the voters from voting that he is going to work there after the election. The so-called Fourth Amendment to the US Constitution states: "Basic rights and freedoms are under the protection of judicial authority. Parliament must not pass laws restricting freedom of speech or the right of the people to gather peacefully." Even according to our constitution, censorship is inadmissible, but many government politicians and some media will, of course, always find an excuse why today's freedom must not only be limited. "If freedom of speech means anything at all, then it is the right to tell people what they do not want to hear." This was written by George Orwell, who, with such frightening precision, foretold today's world in which we have the Ministry of Truth and Words trying to express opposite views. Why am I talking about this so much? Because I'm talking about the person sitting behind me. Because we have the right to be the Ministry of Truth, the Ministry of the Interior, led by the Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement. In the past, they would have been called the top censor. So every time someone gets uncomfortable, they either call him a disinformer without evidence, like political opponents, they always spit dirty saliva to gossip, while he himself has butter on his head, and, as I say, I hope, we're going to do it at that extraordinary meeting to explain at all the political business of the STAN movement. So, Minister, first of all, you should brush up on your own threshold, and then just label others as disinformers, and then just focus on your censorship activity, which I fundamentally disagree with, because we are against censorship. Of course, when someone threatens death, threatens violence, is contrary to the law, or is vulgar to someone, and so on, it is not a decent discussion. But material opinions, opinions of citizens who have a different opinion, so persecuting and bullying the citizens of the Czech Republic, because they simply have a different opinion, I think it is absolutely incredible arrogance of power and it is completely insane what you are doing. We're going back to some regime that was here until 1989. It's just that it's incredible to have the power that comes from your government. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in our country is not critical enough to require an emergency. The government's statement of emergency states that this is a classic crisis management tool. Nothing's more than a lie. The emergency situation is designed only to address major and completely fatal disasters and crises. Yes, it is true that the unfortunate practice introduced by the last Babišův government in recent months has actually created a classic instrument that is being used to do anything today. We say no to the misuse of the emergency situation and its degradation to the "classical management tool of this or any government." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. And I'm gonna make up for some apologies. Mr Jan Richter apologizes today from the whole day on account of his foreign travel, and Mr Petr Sadovský cancels his apology as of 10:30, he is here. And with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, when we began to talk about the government's need to negotiate an extension of the emergency situation, the journalists asked me how our club would stand up to this and whether it would possibly support the extension. At the very beginning, we made it clear that we do not want and will not behave in the same way as today's coalition at the time of the opposition. Making an emergency in politics is wrong, and we saw where it led at the time of the covid. And in this spirit, I answered the reporters openly. I said we were willing to support the emergency by 30 days, the only condition we had was the presentation of the strategy for the following months. Our request was not impossible, on the contrary, the responsible government would have fulfilled it without the slightest effort, because it would have been worked out long ago. I am talking about a short-term and medium-term strategy in areas directly affected by the current crisis. I would have expected several options to be drawn up long ago - for education, housing, health, labour market, social area and, of course, finance. The budgetary implications will certainly be crucial, but we have not heard any specific figures yet. It almost looks like no strategy is complete. However, I still hope that today individual ministers will come forward and tell us how the professional composition of Ukrainian citizens, who come to us, what is their ability and willingness to participate in the labour market and the like. But then the government sat down and approved an extension of the emergency until the end of May. I have to say that this is completely incomprehensible to me, but, unfortunately, it is completely symbolic. The symbolism has already begun during the negotiations to express confidence to the government, when we have been quite arrogantly told that no one is even interested in our votes and that this discussion is actually unnecessary. And since then, the government coalition has been trying to circumvent the opposition almost constantly. There are times when it's understandable, there are times when it's less understandable, and then there are times when it's a gross mistake, like when we're discussing extending the emergency situation. The state of emergency, which the coalition of today has completely politicized in the past period, has made it an obscene word that divides society and makes demonstrations take place because of it. The YES movement is the strongest political club in this House, at the same time we are a strong opposition force, and from this perspective the extension of the emergency situation and our voices would be a big message to a divided society. And that's what the government should be after all. We can't give the government a blank check for almost two months, the request is by definition nonsense, and I dare say it's actually insolence. From my own government experience, I can say that the support of the opposition in times of crisis is important. Although we did not get it, we had to keep fighting on several fronts. It's not a moan, it was just a reality, and I took it that way. But you have at your disposal the comfort of the possible support of the strongest club, yet you have decided for a different and quite possibly unconstitutional path. Even constitutional lawyers disagree whether it is possible to extend the emergency by more than 30 days. For example, Jan Kysela believes that such a step is not in harmony with the Constitution. I would like to quote his comment from the media when Kysela wrote to the Czech News Agency that the procedure, in his opinion, is contrary to the constitutional law on security. I quote literally: The Government always decides on 30 days, and the decision on another 30 days is bound to the previous approval of the Chamber of Deputies. Once it has been given, the government will decide again, thus maintaining the control role of the House and the opposition in it. End of quote. Ondřej Preuss has a similar view, but also some other lawyers with whom I have had the opportunity to speak. It's been a few times since we've been at least on the edge of constitutionality, and that's from a government that's covered up with words about burying a ditch in society with a better political culture and so on, absolutely hypocritical. I mentioned it already, I really did not understand the government's decision to extend the emergency without precedent. But then I heard President Pekarová Adamová's interview for Czech Television, and I will quote again, and she said it very clearly. I quote: Since the emergency situation does not concern Czech citizens, there is unnecessary debate every 30 days. We're not going to detest ourselves through political debate. Madam President is not here, but I must say that I consider the statement absolutely scandalous. Six hours, nine hours, five hours, nine hours, six hours, seven hours, eight hours, seven hours. Do you know what time it is? This is the time round for hours after which we in the Chamber of Deputies discussed individual extensions of emergency conditions during the covid. You will also remember that, at a time when we were in the greatest crisis and hospitals at the limit of their capacity, the House refused to extend the emergency situation. But neither I nor any of my colleagues would ever dare to claim that this discussion is useless or even debilitating. We are in parliamentary democracy, the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. We perceive the seriousness of the situation, but that does not mean that we can resign from parliamentary control. It should be clear that the government will come to the House no later than 30 days later, inform Members of the current situation, explain the strategy for the next period, and if Members recognise that the reasons for emergency remain, they will extend them again. And I'm not saying we wouldn't raise our hand again for 30 days. This is a legitimate procedure, because the control of the House is the basis of parliamentary democracy. The government has resigned from this principle and is circumventing the House. You just have a majority and it allows you everything. And one more reminder of the emergency states from the covid period. Can you still remember, dear colleagues, how many times the emergency has been extended by 30 days at the time of the covid? Once. It was December 2020, otherwise it was around 20 days on average. And we also knew, of course, that in 20 days Covid would not disappear. We also returned once to the House after 11 days. And I have to ask you again: have we ever noticed that anyone would call the discussions unnecessary or debilitating? No. We took it with humility because the government went to the House to ask for something. My colleague Radek Vondráček was very happy with the words "don't disturb, we rule." I would ask you from this place: keep in mind that you are the government of all citizens, and respect that and think of all citizens. I do not want to approach and accept your rhetoric that as soon as anyone dares to draw attention to the problems that Czech citizens have, they are immediately accused of dividing society and opposed to helping Ukrainian refugees. That's a completely unacceptable argument foul for me. [[11.00 hours]] I have said this many times and I will repeat it here again: You could never hear from me or from any of my colleagues that we should not help people affected by the war in Ukraine or that we should not stand for Ukraine. What we are saying is that we must help Ukrainian refugees and we must help our citizens as well, because they too have problems. The government just has to handle both. And citizens expect a capable government to handle it. It is also well - meaning advice from us. Solidarity is absolutely crucial at this time, this time of year. And I hope we all realize that. If, on the contrary, we hear from one of the top officials of the coalition that the government is not here to take care of people - and again, I am sorry that the President is not here, it is not out of context, that is exactly what the President said - if he hears that you are not here to take care of them when they have big problems, then logically he does not understand it. And those are the exact words that dig up the ditch. Because we have to help war refugees, it is our duty, but at the same time we also have to worry about our domestic problems. This whole situation is actually absurd and characteristic at the same time. We don't question the need for an emergency. We're willing to support his extension. We do not politicize, as today's government did at the time of the opposition during the covid. We offered the government a helping hand. And the result? The government rejected it, and once again pushes through power something that will increase tensions in society, something that even constitutional lawyers do not agree on, whether it is consistent with the Constitution, something that will once again reduce the confidence of politicians in general. I ask you very much to understand all the contexts and reconsider your plan. Don't go around Parliament. Extend emergency by 30 days. In a month's time, stand before the Chamber of Deputies again, evaluate the Members' development and outline a strategy for the next period. And if necessary, ask for another 30 days. This is what parliamentary democracy should look like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I'm just saying, with another priority right, Vice-President Věra Kovářová. And the debate is not open, there can be no factual remarks, so I will delete them. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a number of aspects that will be relevant to this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I must say at the very beginning that our fellow citizens will certainly be watching this House's negotiations more closely at this time and with greater interest than usual. And, of course, it's logical. We are living in a really tense time. He barely came out of the covid, there was an energy crisis. And when we seemed to have had the worst of our lives, the Russian Federation attacked our Ukrainian friends. I believe that in such a tense time it would be good to show the Czech nation that his assembly can work efficiently and quickly. Citizens do not deserve political theatres with endless speeches - President Okamura, through Madam President - all the more so in difficult times. I really hope that, for the good of this country, for the good of our fellow citizens, and, after all, for the good of ourselves, we will discuss hard, but especially quickly and rationally. I am clearly stressing that this is not a challenge to the opposition to remain silent. No way. I expect a sharp debate from the opposition, of course, that's okay. But please, even sharp discussions can be handled quickly and efficiently. There are several topics ahead that will divide the House. And one such topic could be an emergency, to be more precise, an extension. I would like to say a few essential things from my point of view. Maybe we'll hear the words here about restricting freedom. Yeah, we've heard that one before. No freedom is trampled and will not be trampled. This was made clear from the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. It's nonsense. I think even those who keep repeating these phrases know. And here I am referring to President Okamura's speech, through Madam President. So once again, I will repeat: no civil or other freedoms of our citizens will be trampled down. Besides, we've got a government emergency here for almost a month. And whoever can prove that there has been a restriction on freedom. It is likely that the government will be criticized for the length of the extension requested by the House. Here I am addressing President Okamura, again through Madam President, who mentioned that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for extending the emergency situation. But you yourself, Mr President, have quoted from your remarks that the government is asking for an extension, not by individual ministers, but by the government as a whole. Of the many speeches on this counter, it will look like the government wants to put in place an emergency until the end of its term of office, not for two months. It is possible that colleagues and colleagues from the opposition here will speak and repeat that an extension of two months is unacceptable and that this is a dictatorship. This has also been said here. And it is clear that, even in this case, most of them will be clear that there is no dictatorship. Even they themselves did not establish a dictatorship when they paid for their emergency status declared under less dramatic conditions, for there was no war at the time. Virtually every reasonable person certainly understands why we have an emergency now and why we want to prolong it. If our country has less than 10.5 million inhabitants and almost 300,000 people come to it in a few weeks, this situation is not manageable without extraordinary procedures. Likewise, everyone in this House knows that this refugee crisis will not disappear in a few days, weeks, and perhaps even in a few months. I'm bohužel so. In that time, the war may not even be over in Ukraine, but I must also say unfortunately, let alone that refugees can begin to return home. I warn some colleagues that envy is an ugly thing. And here's the thing I have to say. Mr Okamura mentioned that our Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan lied when he said there would be no restrictions on freedoms, meaning freedoms such as residence and movement. But Mr Okamura says he lied because freedom is limited primarily by speech. And I say freedom of speech is not limited. And this gives me the right to say, Mr Okamura, through Madam President: He who stirs envy is indeed a shameless man. Because if you think that envying someone with 5,000 crowns, someone who escaped from the war with a plastic bag, left his man at home fighting for his country, came here with no money, no clothes, so do you think there are grounds for envy? Or, as we have noted, that someone is envious of someone going to a zoo, such as Ukrainian children, for a crown? Well, that's really pathological envy. And in your case, I'm even more sorry that you're saying that you're defending people and that you want to be fair. [[11.10 hours]] To the front, of course, I expected that we would hear the connection here, that the government cared for the refugees, but not for its own citizens. So it was said in both performances of the previous speakers. Of course, it has also been said that the government is in the control of Brussels. And maybe someone will say that the government isn't doing anything against expensive. And it won't be true again. The government is taking anti-inflationary action. I understand that someone doesn't like these steps, that they would do it differently, and that they would give support to everyone, that is, anyone who needs it or doesn't need it, they would all just get it. In short, this approach is very uneconomic. The government has decided to go its own way. And another one. And that's the address and help for those who really need it. Not throwing money away, but using it rationally. The government does not take confused steps towards an effect, such as a price cap, so that in a few weeks it will have to prepare an allocation system, as is quite seriously considered in Poland. Ministers and their teams work not for cameras, but consistently. An energy package is being prepared, in addition to a number of economic changes, for targeted and functioning interventions in the social system. I personally like the idea that our Minister Síkela came up with in order to valorize the existential and living minimum, and the government is considering it. This will then affect a number of specific doses, which will be validated automatically. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will decide on an emergency situation, an extension. Too škoda, and President Schillerová has spoken about it here, the subject has been politicized. Yes, it did. So there's obviously no argument to convince you. You have made a political decision, and there is no way I question your absolute right to take that position. But it would certainly be better for all of us to work with the prospect that the debate will be sharp, but not endless. The Czech Republic needs fewer words and more actions these days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. And after the Vice-President is another with priority rights registered by Minister Marian Jurečka and then also with priority rights is Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, colleagues. Of course, I also wanted to respond to the things that were said here as President Tomio Okamura or President Alena Schillerová, but unfortunately they said their speeches and left this Chamber, so it is difficult to speak to them afterwards and respond to the things that have been said here and are obviously false and some unfortunately false. So I would like to say a few essential things about what my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, Vítek Rakušan, said about the reasons which are important behind his department for why we should continue to have an emergency by the end of May, why we are asking the House for an extension. Even for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there is a clear reason why we need to extend the emergency. This reason concerns improving and accelerating the administration for our citizens, citizens of the Czech Republic, so that in this exceptional situation, where the labour authorities and, above all, the officials who work there are able to speed up this process so that we do not have to follow the standard administrative procedure so that the decisions can be faster in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic. After we have approved the Lex Ukraine here, we no longer need to have this acceleration for citizens who come from Ukraine as war refugees, but we are using the institute in this situation where administrative demands on the employment office have increased for the benefit of Czech citizens. That's what I'm saying in the case of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And we also need to realize the situation we're in today. We are in a situation in which Europe has not been in for 82 years. Europe was not in a situation where 10 million people from one part of the country had to leave their homes practically within two weeks. There was no such situation, so we all have it for the first time. Of the 10 million more than 3 million people left Ukraine and went to countries related to them, or some others such as the Czech Republic. Again, it is an unprecedented movement of such a strong migration wave of people fleeing the war because of the threat of their lives. Seven million of them remain in the western part of Ukraine, especially in the surroundings of Lviv and Lviv. And it is our responsibility as people, as an act of humanity, to anyone who is coming, is for his life, has no shelter, seeks security, takes care of these people. I think we all see it. Like some of us, for example, experienced floods in 1997, 2002, as we experienced a tornado last year, so I just think that those people who helped didn't hesitate for a minute if they were to help and if they were to help only to a reasonable degree, they just went and helped, because helping in such an exceptional situation is simply human. And I am glad that, in the past, the questions that Tomio Okamura asked here did not, for example, ask British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, because I do not know what would happen to Europe in the battles of World War II if he had conducted debates in Great Britain and said: Dear Brit, isn't that too much? Don't we take too many people who come to us through the sewer? Shouldn't we give some quota and tell ourselves how many of these people we're going to take? How many do we put in our army? And won't it be enough if we just defend our island and for that channel to the Evropan, the Francouz, the Čechoslovák and the others, we don't broadcast our soldiers anymore? It's beyond our comfort limit. We're only supposed to take care of us, the Brit... No, he and other statesmen didn't have that kind of debate. Because if politicians were at the top of these states who were thinking, like Tomio Okamura said just now, then maybe the whole fate of Europe in World War II would have developed in a completely different direction, and maybe we wouldn't be standing here today. We are in a situation where help is our human human quality and duty. And I am proud of Czech citizens, the Czech Republic, all those who are helping at different levels today, for helping and helping. In four weeks, we managed a huge influx of people who came to us to ask for help. And when I'm talking to them, and I've been to a lot of different regional aid centres, most of them are incredibly grateful. Or all I have spoken with are grateful and have determination at a time when it will be safe to return to Ukraine, to their country, to their homes, to their country. And I wish that if there was ever a situation in which we would be threatened with a similar situation, that any of our neighbouring or other close friendly countries should give the same support, the same refuge, the same degree of solidarity as we do today. This too needs to be understood in this context and this is how it is understood. When there are things that have been said here that we are not helping our citizens and the like - the whole social support system still works. From the beginning, our department and labour offices have been working on helping people follow up on energy. We have more than 40,000 received and administered housing contributions compared to the standard number. When all the other support at the employment offices every month, about 1.3 million of the administered benefits and subsidies we make for Czech citizens are running for us. All these things are running. Since June of this year we have multilateralised extraordinary pensions and we are ready to do an extraordinary valorisation once more if the inflation is to give the basis that is needed for this. We have not forgotten Czech citizens. We're taking steps to reflect the situation and help them. [[11.20 hours]] Yes, we don't make the steps populist and pleasing at first sight, we don't make the steps superficial. We're taking targeted steps to help those who really need help because we're in a situation where we don't have any inherited budget surplus and we have to turn every crown three times, because if we give it up, it's going to be missing in some other part of the budget. And we're looking for the tools. Today we will have a coalition meeting of fives and I have several possible suggestions on how to help citizens and households in the Czech Republic. These are proposals that may be from, say, this area: increasing the valorisation of the parental contribution, increasing the existential and living minimum, increasing the contribution to mobility of citizens with disabilities or increasing the area of discount on taxpayers and children. We're looking for solutions to leave more money in homes for people to handle the difficult situation. But to make sense of the solution, too. So that the money we give out of taxpayers' money in this way doesn't end up in higher margins of chains, of sellers, but in order to end up with those people. So we're really looking for those roads. Just to remind you, in the last two years, only thanks to the increased discount on the taxpayer in Czech households has left an extra 30 billion crowns. The instrument that I personally had a problem with, but most of the House was, that is, the adjustment and abolition of the supergross wage, remained in Czech households again around 70 billion crowns. These are also the money that remained here, and they also need to be taken into account in the context that there is more money left for households in that volume. Then things were mentioned here as arguments of execution. If President Tomio Okamura argues that the number of executions has increased over the last five or six months, then clearly, if he knows the system and principles of enforcement proceedings, it could not have been the influence of Petr Fiala's government. I really don't. To get into execution, those were moments that took place a year or two ago, but not in the last four months or five months of Petr Fiala's reign. But here again, the answer that this House has worked on and is working together, not only from the parties of the coalition, but also from the opposition parties, and that is a solution to this burning issue that we are aware of, and this area has been underestimated for a long time, and one of those solutions is, among other things, the once again realized graceful summer that will be this year. So the next step we're clearly saying is remembering the citizens. We want to give them a second chance! We are aware that the state has not in the past set up a fair legislative environment for the protection of citizens and consumers in the Czech Republic. These steps to improve have been taken over the past six years or so. But there is a need to heal the wrongs that were done ten, fifteen years ago. Those wrongs where the kids fell and stuff. Plus, it's a lovely summer here. So the next step that we clearly respond to is that we perceive the needs to help people get a second chance to go back to normal legal life. We don't abuse emergencies, we don't do selection procedures in other areas that we could simplify our lives to give something directly, as they say. We're not doing this. This concerns only the specific things mentioned here by the Minister of the Interior or I mention and concerns the agenda of our two ministries or the work of the chieftains. We do not abuse this in other areas that are unrelated, nor does it have anything to do with how to deal effectively with the problems and consequences of the war refugee situation. I must say that when President Okamura here spoke of how freedom of speech is being suppressed here and so forth, I confess that I am not aware of any such thing. And if anyone here confuses their opinion for a clear, obvious lie, that's two different worlds. If someone is deliberately lying and manipulating the facts and has their servers built on it, it's completely different from any other opinion. And I must say, in the past, President Okamura here, on his social networks and here, has shown his admiration for Vladimir Putin and his regime very often. He's had a lot of social media contributions that have mysteriously disappeared in the last two weeks. Why is he censoring his own profile? Why is he doing this on Twitter and other social channels? Is he ashamed of the contributions? Or was he wrong? Or did he support someone who is now an obvious aggressor, a war criminal, someone who commits genocide on an innocent nation, on children, on women? Well, apparently, yes. Today, it's just a shame to admit it and say fair and square: I've been completely brutally cut off. He adored someone who was not normal in the country, what was there a joke that was said in communism: What is the difference between East and West in that freedom of expression? That there was freedom of speech in the West even after your speech, while in Russia you have freedom of speech for a few seconds, and that freedom ends when a person picks up only white paper, and the cops take it away. They'll pick up an old lady. They arrest tens of thousands of people who come freely to express their views on the public demonstration. That's the kind of regime that President Okamura here has repeatedly adjourned. Vladimir Putin adored. Someone who commits crimes against humanity in Ukraine. I have spoken to people in recent days who have had personal experience with how the Russian army behaved after the annexation of Crimea. I spoke to the lady whose brother was tortured because he refused to accept Russian citizenship as a citizen of Crimea. They pulled all his teeth out, and two weeks ago, Russian occupying troops killed him in battle. Such stories we are able to plant here, as the Russian army behaved in Crimea. And today, the whole world is seeing how he's doing today in Mariupol and other cities. So let's really tell ourselves the truth about freedom, about democracy, about honoring the rights and borders of Vladimir Putin's regime, which here has been repeatedly acquitted by Tomie Okamura. I think today we're in a situation where there's a need to know how to name things when they're lying, to manipulate the facts. There's no limit to any other opinion here. That's what we're saying here in public discussions, we're saying those opinions in debates. And compare here at this point, as President Okamura did a few tens of minutes ago, that there was a condition here that was before 1989? I was very small, but I experienced the situation of my parents who couldn't study, I experienced situations where saying a different opinion publicly meant bullying, termination of employment, in many cases long experience with the staff of StB, and in some exceptional cases restrictions on the freedom of several years in prison. These stories are in my family. I ask Prime Minister Okamura not to compare what was before 1989 to today's situation. We're just making it clear that lying and manipulating isn't meant to be. To sum up and underline the whole debate, we come in a situation where the crisis law was written precisely for such situations. For situations where there is some kind of safety risk outcome. The addition of more people to the Czech Republic. For these situations and for natural disasters, the creators then wrote the law and for such situations the law should apply. The pandemic situation over the last two years has been in a different dimension. Back then, those creators, when they wrote the law, did not remember this dimension of the pandemic situation. That's why it was a different story. That's why we asked for a special pandemic law to be adopted. But in this situation, the law is precisely sewn up for this moment. That's why we're using him, and that's why it's normal for the government to come and any other government to do it, and he's going to say, "We still need a crisis, an emergency, sorry, and we need to extend it." This is what the government is doing, and the list of measures clearly concerns only the specific situations to help cope with the situation. This emergency situation does not adversely affect the citizens of the Czech Republic. No one restricts them, no one takes away their rights, no one takes away their property, and so on. Unfortunately, this information runs in some misinformation emails, but the government hasn't done anything like that, it won't. It's about the specific things that I and the Home Secretary have mentioned here. Thank you for your attention, support and rational discussion on the basis of arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. And another performance with priority rights will be given by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The last one, because as a Member, I never liked it when those with priority rights privatized for themselves at the beginning of the meeting of the debate, and I would like it to take place on a wide range of registered colleagues and colleagues that I see on the board. But I have to respond to what President Okamura has said here, on a number of fundamental matters. We're not lying here! We're really not lying! The institute that we apply in the Czech Republic and throughout the European Union is called temporary protection. President Okamura here spoke of this: and you claim to want them all here permanently, and such things. Who says so? When did he say that? Tell the source to show it to us, otherwise it's exactly what my colleague Jurečka was talking about, otherwise it's the misinformation. If we're saying sentences that aren't true, which we're making up here at the counter, then it's misinformation. The institute will appoint temporary protection. It's for one year, it's until 31. 3. 2023. Until then, we are providing protection here and then we will see how, of course, the situation in Europe will develop. But those people expect that they do not come permanently, and this corresponds to the title given to them in the Czech Republic. And then Mr Okamura here tells me the words: You lied that the emergency situation would not touch anyone in the Czech Republic. It's all affecting the population! - Let's not mix two things up. All of us in the Czech Republic are affected by the refugee crisis. Yes, it touches us. It will certainly touch us again, and it touches us because Putin, Mr Okamura's favorite, whose status has now mysteriously disappeared from social networks, attacked Ukraine. That's it! Yes, it affects us here, and it affects all of Europe, and most importantly it affects those on whom bombs fall, who lose their health, their loved ones, their possessions, their home. It's touching them. But this is the result of the refugee crisis and, above all, Putinův's aggressive war against Ukraine. This really isn't the result of an emergency. Whether he's here or not, the consequences of the Ukrainian crisis will, of course, be here. And I dare say that because of the emergency situation as a classic crisis management instrument, we can deal with the consequences better and better for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Stop creating a false dilemma that does not exist: either Ukrajinec or citizens of the Czech Republic! It's a false dilemma! We also work for the citizens of the Czech Republic and, after all, what we are doing now for Ukrainian citizens, that we register them well, that we have a good awareness of them, that we know where they are, who they are, who they are coming to us, after all, we do this also for the security of the Czech Republic as such. Mr. Okamura still says where the ceiling is? Well, the ceiling of the comfortable accommodation facilities is now here. I've said it many times. This is also what we are adapting to, and the European negotiating strategy that we are conducting. But we don't know if the refugee crisis will end. When Putin war is over, his friend, at that point, maybe we can stop it here on this European basis, and at that point, we can figure out where the ceiling is. And that the Czech Republic, of course, says at that European level: our capacities are slowly exhausted and we need to think about how those flows of refugees are directed to countries that are better off - that is, of course, what we are doing. But now no one can say if the ceiling of those who leave Ukraine ends up with the 3.9 million that is now, or it's going to be 6 million, which none of us wants. But we have to be able to respond to that in some way in this situation. And the question is, why don't other countries have an emergency? Because other countries have other crisis legislation, and maybe it's called otherwise in those other countries, or they have other, more operational instruments. That is why we have in the government's statement that we want to amend crisis legislation so that it is adapted to various types of events. That hasn't worked out yet. We've had six months, and if we have four years, we'll definitely make it to the end. And then the question - it is also not so many refugees in many countries. Not all European Union countries must now respond to this by some instrument of crisis management. The Czech Republic is the target country, we all knew it from the beginning and it is quite clear. And let's not release any misleading information here: 3,000 crowns with accommodations and so on. No, it's not checked in. CZK 3,000 goes as a contribution to Czech citizens - Czech citizens - who are solidarity, have hearts and accommodate them, and we help them in this way. So let's not mix all kinds of support together. This is money for Czech solidarity citizens who help. Let's not put these things together. And then these things about the Ministry of the Interior being some kind of ministry of censorship, fear, the Ministry of the Supreme Censor and all that. I don't know, Mr. Okamura didn't say a single specific case that we censored, where we intervened. And if they are afraid that there will be a report on extremism in the Czech Republic, where all sorts of things are written, the Minister of the Interior does not specify it, but the people who are working on it determine it, and here I can promise that this report will certainly be discussed in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Minister. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? This is not the case, so I wish you a good morning in the meantime and we will continue to discuss this point. Before I open the debate, I recall that according to § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice in the debate, and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to Members authorised to refer to the matter to the Member's club's opinion. And now I am opening the debate and Members have spoken - first Mr Patrik Nacher is the Member and Mr Drahoslav Ryba will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, Minister, good morning. It's my first turn again. What I'm a little sorry to say is, right before the parentheses start, is that I've been watching how long these debates were on purpose about the emergency situation last year and the year before last, and it was between five and nine o'clock. We're only here for an hour and a half now, and I'm looking at 12 entries, so it's gonna be pretty quick, and yet there aren't two-thirds of the hall, and besides the Home Secretary, who's sitting right behind me, the rest of the government isn't here. I'm a little sorry, because we haven't been through 12 hours, we've only been through an hour and a half, and it needs to be said that this is really important. The second thing in front of the parentheses, I would like to say, and clearly here, no one is questioning that there is a major crisis. No one is questioning the war in Ukraine. No one is questioning the emergency as something that needs to be accepted for a limited period of time. No one is questioning the help that our country is offering, and which, by the way, is already bigger than Germany in the previous immigration crisis ten years ago. No one's questioning that. So I'd hate to have somebody put it in our mouths, me, my colleagues from the club of the YES movement. [[11.40 hours]] But that doesn't mean we agree with everything. We discussed the emergency situation here repeatedly in 2020, 2021. And it seems to me, the proposal that the government has just come up with, the 58 days, almost absurd. Like an absurd theater. Why? Because the emergency situation here has been announced in the past, I've looked at it and I've been preparing it 13 times. He moved from 11 days, it was the shortest, for 30 days. I remember that there was a really nice place here, and it fought for every single day. And that is why it seems to me almost as if I would have told the same politicians, the same MPs here who said it wouldn't be 30, it would be 22, 19, 14, 11 days - I made an average, by the way. On average, the emergency conditions lasted 21.85 days. It's always been like we were kind of arguing about going through anything. And all of a sudden, the same politicians come up with a proposal of 58 days. I don't think that's possible. You know that I'm pointing out the double standard, this almost feels like a double kilometer to me, because the one who fought for every single day before, or didn't support it at all, the emergency situation to go beyond the 30 days now, it's not possible that it's the same person, so it's not so consistent between 2020/2021. I found a quote. Markéta Pekarová Adamová said: Since the emergency situation does not concern Czech citizens - that may be what my fellow lawyers would discuss here, as far as it concerns, I will not go into this, so let each picture itself, I think logically it will be - so there is unnecessary debate every 30 days, we will not exert ourselves through political debate. But, fellow Members, this is how it works in the Chamber of Deputies, that it was only for 30 days, that is what this is meant to be, and every 30 days after that, the government comes and defends whether the situation continues. In other words, argument number one, that it will take longer, is for me, forgive me, relevant. Because even with the covid, it was clear that it would take longer. I mean, it was pretty clear, except maybe the first month that it wasn't, it was something new, so then it was clear that the covid wasn't going to disappear out of nowhere, so it was clear that it would take longer, but no one thought of skipping the Parliament's check and instead of putting it in there after 30 days, so it just went to 58. And why not by the end of June or the end of the year? These days were here, in case you were wondering: 30, 19, 19, 30, 14, 22, 11, 30, 21, 14, 30, 14 and 30. We've always been in this line of work. It is evident because it was four such periods, the longest was between 30 September 2020 and 28 February, and yet it was clear in September, we remember that it would take more than a month. And yet the government came back here permanently to defend again and again whether or not the emergency was to be prolonged. So that's not the argument. Yeah, no one's questioning that either. This situation in Ukraine will certainly take longer than 30 days, but these measures may change. And that government will come here and defend again if it's worth declaring an emergency again and again for 30 days. Me personally and my colleagues, I suppose, were ready to support those 30 days. We're not doing anything on purpose. But I don't know how you guys figured out it's gonna last almost two months. The second argument that I made when I talked about it, about the emergency situation, a few days ago, was that, after all, at the beginning of the covid - we were talking about April, March, April - no one was questioning the emergency situation either, and we are at the beginning. Well, I found a quote, because it's supposed to be true here, so I found a quote that you, colleagues, commented on. For example, Petr Fiala - who is not here now, unfortunately, I wish him an early recovery. The current Prime Minister on April 7 means less than a month, less than a month after the announcement of the first emergency, said: Today, of course, it is also necessary to act quickly, but it is also necessary to act wisely. After a month, it's finally time for that precipice to begin to balance with a clear plan as to what to do. People in the Czech Republic are responsible citizens, they endure difficult times truly admirably and need to, it is time to give them a clear plan as we move on. That's what we've been calling for the last few days and weeks, by the way. A clear plan to move on. The impromptuness and improvisation that may have been understandable in those first days and weeks must be over. Then he says that the period of this tolerance ends, the period when the government received a blank check from us. That means after the first less than a month. You see, and we're moving on with this, we supported it first, we supported it second, but still no one explained to me how you came to 58 days, and if it's constitutionally comfortable and what reason it is, and why you want to bypass the Chamber of Deputies in this way at the moment when it bothered you in the last parliamentary term. As has already been said, the emergency situation can - a little legal window - be announced only with a reason for a certain period of time, a maximum of 30 days, for a particular territory. At the same time as the announcement of an emergency situation, the Government must define which rights provided for in the crisis law and to what extent they are restricted in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and which obligations and to what extent they are imposed on whom. It is possible to extend the emergency for more than 30 days only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. Although the Act does not specify the maximum number of days the emergency situation can be extended by - and we are now there, this is a text from lawyers - during the years 2000, 2021 the custom has been established that the Government is asking the Chamber of Deputies to agree to extend the emergency situation for a maximum of 30 days and then, if necessary, to ask again. [[2020?]] The government's announcement of an emergency is a bit of a downside to its importance and reach - if you look at the justification - which, by the way, is the thing that the former opposition blamed, the current coalition of the previous government. Reasoning - contributes to the tendency to use a state of emergency to address the state's administrative difficulties and to make this an extraordinary and serious instrument, that is, an emergency, a means of relatively normal need. An important argument against such a long extension of the emergency situation is certainly the experience that the Czech Republic is doing in this regard quite differently from the rest of Europe. So I've seen how it works in the rest of Europe. I will not unfairly argue with states that are not as affected as the Czech Republic by the number of refugees, I will be fair. Let me just remind you, there is no emergency situation in France, there is no emergency situation in the UK, there is - beware, fair, but there has been an extension of the emergency situation in Italy until the end of this year, but he has been there continuously since 2020, so I wouldn't take it as an example, there it takes 24/7. It is not even, but beware, it is not in Austria, it is not in Germany. In Germany, even without emergency conditions, they simplified the issue of visas and the possibility of permanent residence, but they did so without emergency conditions. It is not even in Poland, and there we agree that there is by far the greatest pressure and number of refugees in absolute terms and per capita conversion. And there's no emergency. And there is an emergency situation in Slovakia, but it is not the equivalent of the emergency situation, as it is in our country. That means that we in this - as I said, we would support, I would support those 30 days, 58 days not, but we're also unique in this. No country has a state of emergency in this, the way we're declaring it here. [[11.50 hours]] Well, that has to do with what my previous speaker, president of our club, said all along. In relation to the emergency situation, and you wanted it in the past period and it has its logic, we want to know what's going to happen next. In the words of Petr Fiala, we need to know the plan. When I looked at Markéta Pekarová's words, she said she needed to see the scripts, the scenarios of the development going on in the field of education, in terms of school capacity, social areas, health in combination with the covid, by the way. He doesn't talk about it now because he fits in, but he does sometimes, I know he's bubbling. I'd say that in the short, medium term. In that long-term vision, as opposition, we would like to see from the government in terms of energy and food self-sufficiency. Those are the topics that are here and that exposed the conflict. For me, they certainly don't pay the thesis, don't be mad at me, it's a big simplification that anyone who wants to deal with high prices, who wants to solve the fact that the middle class will start falling into trouble, not just by conflict, but by combining everything, it's all been going on - inflation, expensiveness, post-covid times, conflict and war in Ukraine - so I don't get paid that high prices can't be dealt with when there's a war going on for lobsters. For me, it is possible to solve both at once, like Poland does. I'm not going to give you an example of another country here to tell me that the country isn't so affected. I'll set an example for Polsko. As I said, there are more than 2 million refugees in Poland, yet Poland has already, and now continues to do so, decided to reduce VAT or excise duties on fuel and on basic foodstuffs. That's what they did. That can go in parallel for me, because there's a price to pay for me that it's not something that can be deprecated. It's just when he's gonna give a shit about the problems, the economic problems, the middle class is starting to fall, so it's the middle class that's helping now. He's helping Ukrajinec, sending money, making some of his capacity available. Those are connected containers. Those are connected containers, I don't think it can be separated. But it's not just the economic thing, it's the emotional thing for me. And the emotional one. Because the moment we take any critical view of the government or of any step, one immediately grabs a label or a mockery, or the fact that somehow it doesn't take into account that there's a war going on a few hundred miles from our borders. So it increases the pressure in society, it increases the negative atmosphere. But that, I suppose, and I hope you don't want that. That would be a good way to distinguish it. I've made another comparison with abroad, so I'll just take it real quick, I don't want to delay. Just as I was looking at whether abroad and where the emergency situation was declared, I looked at the measures in parallel, as I say, with the help of individual countries. Thus from 27 countries reduced taxes, albeit temporarily, 16; price ceilings introduced 16 - so I am not a friend; certain types of subsidies to households or smaller firms, even 20 countries. That means these things can be done, and it's not either or. So much for that. The Home Secretary isn't here. I wanted to ask him, because in connection with the emergency situation, I thought I'd get a letter from a police officer who served in Prague for 20 years, so I'll sign up for the second time when the Home Secretary is here, because it's directly connected to the emergency situation and how he's in charge of the measures and ensuring public order and when the service is paid and when the superiors are making excuses for the emergency situation, but he's sent somewhere to secure a sports event or God forbid some poker tournament and it looks like an emergency. But I'm not gonna do that when the minister's not here. Once again, I really don't understand, I find it absurd to propose 58 days, when the opposition here tells you on a platter, let's approve 30 days. The situation is extraordinary, no one's questioning it, but it's just not possible for me, it's a schizophrenic situation so that the same politicians who have been lysing here for days, so it's not 30, so it's 15 to reduce the number of days in an emergency state, suddenly come up with a number of 58, as if it didn't mix. So much for the emergency. When the Home Secretary comes, I'll ask him about the cops. Thank you for your attention. I think it's gonna be pretty quick today, and I wish you the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Ambassador, and since you signed up first, I would like to ask you to take up the role of rapporteur. I think it would suit you on such an important subject. Do you accept this role? [[Yes. - Let's hear it.]] Yes, thank you, the Chamber of Deputies thank you for taking up the role of rapporteur. And now Mr Drahoslav Ryba is in the debate. Sorry, sorry, of course. Mr President Okamura, then President Marek Výborný and followed by President Alena Schillerová. And before I give you my word, Mr President, I will read an apology. 29th day. 3. between 11:45 and 13:00, Renáta Zajíčková apologizes because of the meeting of the Czech Government. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u16	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to step out here now to disprove the desperate lies that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan has shown that they reflect that their confidence in the government is falling, so they are desperately kicking around because what we wanted to hear here today is, if the government has a plan, but I've been challenging it for weeks, no government plan has, so here you are lying about the SPD and kicking desperately around like little children. First of all, Putin. It is the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan who should know and end up with these desperate lies, his desperate lying, because the SPD has nothing to do with Putin and Russia, we have neither a penny from Russia nor a ruble from Russia, and we have no contact with Russia. I was last in Russia in 1992 for one night in transit in Moscow Šeremetěvo on my way to my Japanese grandmother. If I count well, it's 30 years ago. That means leave these desperate lies you're trying to blame for the political competition of the SPD. We've been doing public research, and luckily, your lies don't jump. The SPD is neither pro-Russian nor pro-Pputinian, but neither pro-brussels, nor pro-American, nor pro-Chinese. For us, the Czech Republic is the first place. So let the lie that the SPD is a pro-Russian party, we have absolutely nothing to do with it. On the contrary, I very much welcome Japan's initiative, and I see it on Japanese television that claims the Kuril Islands, and I, because I am half Japonec, welcome this initiative to the Russian Federation and I am not ashamed of it at all. [[12.00 hours]] That means I'm gonna lie to these lies because they're gonna lie all the time, and you're gonna get more and more preferences down, so you're gonna be your five-wheeler, Petr Fiala, all the more you're gonna lie about political competition. But if I say one more thing, there isn't one person with Japanese blood who's an admirer and a supporter of Russia, but you know that, or maybe you don't, because you don't have that information at all. This means, to feel love for the Czech Republic and to love your country does not mean at all that it is human - and that we want to defend a policy of conduct and cooperation, and, of course, we have condemned war, as we all do, does not mean that anyone is pro-Russian or pro-putin. So stop lying. We have absolutely nothing to do with this, not with Russia, not with Putin, but the fact that we want to talk here without censorship, so there's freedom of speech, that doesn't mean there's anyone for Putin or Russia. So I hope these lies stop being here because you don't have anything on the SPD, that's why you're trying to label us, you're trying to lie about us being some kind of pro-Russian party or pro-Plutin party, that's not true at all, and the public knows that. So get it over with. But what is a problem, I see here what Mr Jurečka said here, because it is the representatives of the people, KDU-ČSL, who, in my opinion, are conducting a treasonous policy because they have long attended the conventions of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft. Yes, the Sudeten German landsmanshaft, which they found provenly, and anyone can find that, forged fascists and Nazis. Even people who participated in the murders of Čech at the Kobylis shooting range in Prague. Yes, there are regular conventions, conventions of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, representatives of the people, government KDU-ČSL. So if there really is a fifth column here, then in my opinion, they're folk people, because I don't go to Russia or go to meet Putin. Vít Rakušan here lied - he said Putin, my friend. I've never seen him before in my life. I don't go to Russia. Where would I see him? So it's really awful, as when the government coalition flows into its shoes, so Vít Rakušan, the Home Secretary, who should just be a serious person, so he lies, lies and lies like he's printing. It's incredible to have an interior minister like that. But back to Chairman KDU-ČSL and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL. He said I was erasing some posts on Facebook. I didn't delete a single post. Can he give me proof that Tomio Okamura deleted his Facebook post from the Home Secretary? He should resign immediately for this lie, because I didn't delete a single contribution. I've got three administrators on Facebook who are conducting it, editing it. By the way, I have quotes. I had many quotes from the President of the European Commission von der Leyenová, I had many quotes from Juncker, I fundamentally disagree with their policy. I had a quote for Biden. And the caretaker of my profile also put Putin's quotes, remarkable Putin's quotes. But that doesn't mean that I'm someone's admirer and supporter, because my profile is political and they're there, of course -- he puts, the manager of my profile, he just put quotes from all over the world that are to think about, whether positive or negative. [[applause from the right]] That is why there are also dozens, or many quotes, once again I say, European Union representatives, I do not agree with them, and there are quotes such as that or poppy. So this is one thing. But I didn't erase any of my status. So I don't understand what you're talking about. I don't really deal with surfing in my Facebook history and erasing my posts there. You're probably doing it, you've got plenty of time, I really don't have time. So Vít Rakušan should present proof that Tomio Okamura - and Marian Jurečka - or who said that I was erasing something. Otherwise, it's a lie. But basically, they can't prove it because I didn't do anything like that. So, of course, let go of these lies and nonsense. And that on the political profile, I refer to different quotes one way or another, and that it evolves, that there can be different changes with things that we disagree with, so that's normal development. I hope we've all condemned the war in Ukraine here, and I think it's very clear. So these lies, that's another thing, too, but it's convenient for you. Next. There was a challenge, or there was a question that you said you didn't say the fugitives would be here permanently. It's not true, I heard it myself that Prime Minister Petr Fiala admitted in the media that he assumed that most of us would stay here, so what are the government officials lying about again? That's what Prime Minister Fiala himself said he assumed. I don't know what this is all about. I don't know, you probably don't listen to each other in government, you just made it clear. While the Danish Prime Minister says she assumes something other than the Czech Prime Minister and your government, she assumes that everyone will return to Ukraine after the conflict has ended. That's a different attitude. It is we who agree with the Danish vision, with democratic Denmark, but you say that you assume and actually that they will stay here. So I don't know, for those ministers, they're lying. I know it's your desperation because when someone's desperate and can't do it in that government, they start kicking around trying to distract themselves by getting into another political party. But you really won't even get the public on that anymore. So these lies, like the SPD-- Putin... So we have Jaroslav Bašta in our ranks, who was the only MP, unlike all of you in the government, locked up under the previous regime and dissident, he was a signatory to Charter 77, and you're here labeling the SPD just lyingly, backwards. That's completely unbelievable. You might as well say that the one who studied Russian in college, for example, is pro-Russian. That's exactly what you're talking about, but that's total nonsense. Or that the Russian teacher at school is pro-Russian. These are exactly the practices that government five-calibers have here, but that's not true at all. As in the Czech Republic, by the way, there are many Rus, and that was the reason, and some Rus have already told me on the street that this is why they moved to the Czech Republic, that they do not like Putin - by the way, for your information. So a label like that, a lie like that, a permanent lie like that, it's got to be rejected at all. That is, the chair of the People's Party, who, in my opinion, are collaborating with the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, who is questioning the Benešův Decrees and questioning the postwar arrangement of the Czech Republic, so here he points to others and still lies. I think it's a really big chuck from the people's. You guys should stop going to those Sudeten German Landsmanshaft conventions first. But next to Mr. Rakušan, the Home Secretary. Then we have no idea what he's talking about, because I know that the Minister of the Rakušan is constantly trying to distract the STAN movement. I would like to announce that today we are serving, that we have managed to collect signatures under an extraordinary meeting of the House, today we are serving it, we have addressed the ANO movement, we have agreed with the YES movement, because the SPD movement has only 20 Members, we need 40, we have managed to collect those signatures together with the ANO movement and we will convene an extraordinary meeting on the political business of the STAN movement. I know Minister Vít Rakušan is desperately trying to distract STAN from the political business, but you're not going to distract her, Minister. Stop spitting and lying about other political parties and devote yourself to explaining your political business. Because Mr Polčák, who charged CZK 47,000 for the meeting with the SPD, wanted to charge the municipality for public money, wanted to charge a commission of CZK 8 million for the enforcement of the law, but he did not tell us here before the vote that he should have a commission of CZK 8 million for it. You, Minister You vědět Rakušan, Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the STAN, have not yet called on Vít Rakušan to take up the mandate of the MEP. [[Stanislav Polčák]] Because he's your friend. And you knew about it, you just know about everything, about this political business that your colleagues are doing in the leadership of the STAN movement. Funding the STAN movement, I have no idea how the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan can have the audacity to lie about other political parties when Vít Rakušan has still not said who the owners of those companies that sponsored the Pirates and STAN campaign from the Cypriot tax havens in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. And that's the Home Secretary? And Prime Minister Fiala doesn't say anything about it? [[12.10 hours]] What Mr Farský, another man from the leadership of the STAN movement, was an MP. You promised the voters before the elections, even in writing in your contract, that your Members would devote themselves fully to the work of the Member. And you already knew before the elections - you too, Minister You vědět Rakušan, and Prime Minister Fiala, for you confirmed this in the media - that you want to cheat voters and that Mr Farský is leaving for the US right after the election. Then we all had to convince him and push the media to even take up the mandate. Next, censorship. Yes, you promote censorship of citizens' views in the Czech Republic. We all know that, Vít Rakušan, Minister of the Interior. We also know that you're using the Department of Political Fight when you put the SPD on some list of disinformers you created at the Ministry, and you haven't given any evidence that any misinformation has fallen. You're just using the Ministry of Political Fight completely. Because you're just running into a government coalition. So what I want to say here is that he's gonna be on the SPD because we're just two opposition parties here. That's why the government's five-calice, the more confidence you're going to lose, and you've already fallen, as we know from the survey, so far one that's been published on Nova, so your government's trust has already fallen, the trust of citizens. So let's get ready, and I'd like to tell the audience here that the government coalition is going to be attacking the SPD more and more. Because we're only two opposition parties here. You're gonna lie, lie, lie about the SPD over and over again, that we're pro-Russian, pro-Pputinian. It's not true at all. You don't have any proof of that. There's no proof of that. So all you're gonna do is lie and lie to lie about your government failure. But I don't understand how the Minister of Social Affairs Jurečka and the chairman of the People's Party can just attack the SPD here. After all, it was you who voted on Thursday night - and it is precisely the gesture of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka and the People's Chairs - against the SDP law to end the abuse of benefits inadaptable. The Minister Jurečka doesn't have anything prepared in his hand. As far as the area of work and social affairs is concerned, you took, your government, money from single parents. We've all seen it in the budget, which you've agreed to for this year. The SPD was against it. Your government took money from disabled people. It's what all disabled people see. You rejected the SPD proposal to increase the care allowance in order to help the disabled. You don't deal with expensive. You have increased the lives of all pensioners and students, among other things, by reducing the traffic discount. That means you are going directly against the citizens of the Czech Republic. You make their lives so expensive, you are literally free of charge. You're still attacking someone else here. You have time to attack and lie about others, but working for citizens, you obviously don't have time for that at all. That means another thing. Like old people. You've decided there's supposed to be a statutory pension valorization. Legal, not thanks to you, it's ordered by law, so any government would have to do it. It would automatically be like that. You want to increase pensions by 8 percent, respectively, the legal valorisation, but inflation is 11 percent. You said there'd be nothing more for seniors. I mean, disability, old age, widows, orphans, pensions. That means, for you, even the living standards of pensioners are getting worse. He's getting worse. Because you said that in addition to the legal valorisation that you have no influence on because it is legal, you don't want to add anything to the recipients of all these types of pensions. This means that for you the standard of living in the Czech Republic is basically getting worse for all citizens. Because you just don't have time for Czech citizens. I would even like to point out that, according to the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences - a week ago, there was an article about this at Novinky - under your government, 40% of the increase in new executions compared to the situation six months ago. And 30% of households are financially at risk. That means you're leading this country into a complete disaster, the reign of Petr Fiala. You don't give a damn about solving the problems of Czech citizens. Instead of proposing and discussing laws here - but you have no laws on improving the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic - you are attacking the SPD and lying, lying and lying. So let's not talk about being pro-Putinist or pro-Prussian. It doesn't mean that if we don't want war and we want peace negotiations, someone would be pro-Putinian or pro-Phoenian or pro-American or pro-brussels. It's normal for me to want peace so that more civilians don't die and that we all live here in Europe in peace. But then Mrs. Kovářová, Vice-President of STAN here, said that the SPD is stirring up envy for refugees. Why are you making this up? I'm saying you're making it up because you're a lady, so of course I use a milder expression. They say they have a petting zoo for a crown, or what are you mixing it with? I wasn't talking about any zoos at all. We've been saying this from the beginning -- and you just don't hear it on purpose -- we're saying, I'm going to repeat the sentence I said in the media a hundred times, so don't lie anymore, stop lying anymore, the reign of Petr Fiala, this five-calice. We say: We think it is right to help refugees from Ukraine. But only adequately, for the necessary time and after the end of the conflict in Ukraine should they return to build their home country. Are you all deaf? I guess so. We've been saying this all along. We have all condemned aggression here by the House resolution. We have all condemned violations of internationally recognised edges. Stop lying, stop talking nonsense. I've got to laugh here. Because the government's desperation will continue here for three and a half years, tops. Then they'll decide what's next. So the fact that it was live here, Vít Rakušan took advantage of it with Marian Jurečka and they already went to lie. You think that's gonna make a difference? You will not change anything because the citizens of the Czech Republic see that their energy bills are coming and that you are doing nothing, your government. Citizens of the Czech Republic know that all the surrounding countries around the Czech Republic accept and accept comprehensive solutions to help citizens. Either they lower taxes on energy, or on food, or on selected basic foods, or on fuel, or even put down mortgage rates so that people don't get expensive housing. That is why Czech citizens go shopping in Poland. Your government - ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates - has done nothing for the citizens. Nothing! People are desperate, they don't have money, and you don't have anything prepared here. Yeah, actually, you're ready. We're here to discuss the law when you want to take 14 billion crowns from health insurance companies and make access to healthcare worse. Even in connection with the refugee wave of health facilities, they're becoming more overwhelmed. We have a number of citizens who are already waiting for us at the doctor's office, and so on. And you're taking CZK 14 billion to insurance companies so that health care actually has even less money, and you're making access to healthcare in the Czech Republic worse. That's what we need to talk about here, not your lies and your SPD nonsense. So here's the deal, yes. We'll reconstruct it, the design. Because we fundamentally disagree, we fundamentally disagree with the deterioration of the availability of healthcare to our citizens. There's been months of medical examination already. Already, many areas of health care, such as dental care, are not available to many citizens both financially and financially. But you're still taking the money, you're still taking the money, the system. But the truth is, on the contrary, you also added money somewhere. Yes, you've added money to your three new ministers. Three unnecessary ministers that you have newly created at the Office of the Government. For their secretariats, you hired about 70 people for tens of millions of crowns. That means you're adding to yourself. Also because of your government coalition, as you know, the salaries of politicians increased in January. We voted against. We had a proposal here to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term, but you turned him down. So because of your government's five-calice, you raised your own money. But you took the citizens. That's a real picture of your government. [[12.20 hours]] That means I'd like to ask you to stop splitting up the company so you can stop lying and attacking others. Because of all this nonsense I've been talking about, I know you have nothing but lying about the SPD and creating an artificial atmosphere that the SPD is like that or poppy. Because there's nothing else left for you because actions don't speak for you, only rumors speak for you. But I say again, you will not get rid of this responsibility, because full responsibility for all social problems, for all the events in the Czech Republic, for the fact that people do not have money, has only one entity: It is the government of Petr Fiala. You have full responsibility. And I'm going to say again that the public has to prepare for, unfortunately, that instead of working for the citizens, you will continue to attack the SPD and continue to lie about us and slander us everywhere possible. But I would like you, instead of slandering and lying, to really devote that time to solving the price increase and to solving it, as other countries in the European Union do. That should be your job. And we're happy to help you with the job. But the problem is, we're going to present our proposals here, but you're always going to reject them by your government majority, but you're not suggesting any alternative proposal yourself. And I really have to say that your government coalition is literally costing people so much. For example, since February Poland and Hungary have reduced taxes to basic food, fuel and so on, so Czech citizens go shopping in Poland, but because of your incompetence, we already have February and March, 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic pulling thousands of crowns out of each of your pockets every month for being unable to deal with it in the form of other governments. So you guys are really coming at a very expensive price, even your constituents. Because if there was another government, they'd be buying cheaper. Of course, there's also a need for cuts, but you don't want to. Payments to solar barons must be humiliated. Well, you guys voted against it here last summer. At least the little humiliation that has passed has passed through the votes of the SPD, YES and two other party members who are no longer here. You were here openly defending your government five-wheelers, solar barons and their business. We know why. Because, after the election, it turned out that they were also sponsors of the STAN movement and their electoral campaigns, namely Věslav Michalik, Vice-President of the STAN movement. But that's been done by all the media, and that's clear. So now we know why you defended and why you defend solar barons, when the second largest government party is a party whose activities are sponsored by a person who has a solar business. So it's pretty obvious. It is also necessary to humiliate payments to so-called political non-profit organizations, specifically those who promote, for example, multi-culty, migration, the European Union and so on. That's what's happening now in a crisis, and not just now in a crisis, it doesn't bring anything at all. On the contrary, we support nonprofit organizations that care about old people, about children, about the needy, that's okay. Furthermore, it would be good to really abolish the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. There could be up to a billion crowns of savings here. The savings range between a half a billion and a billion. We've been asking in many places, and the Department of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't want Marian Jurečka to figure it out. They're not supposed to deal with this issue, so that's how much wider the estimate is. But one way or another, it's a huge amount of money that would come in handy, of course. We have proposed and proposed to regroup this money to help people with the price increase. At all, the way you came here last week to the bill to end the abuse of the inadaptable doses proposed by the SPD, here was an incredible statement by Vice-President of the ODS and Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, who said we should give the government time. What time? Here was a final proposal with 70 changes and you've said since last winter, which means for a year and a quarter that you're both personnel and programmed ready to rule - your government, your five-coaling. And it's been six months since the election. It's six months after the election. And there is no argument that your government has been in the government for three months, because you have a comfortable majority here in the House for six months, so that your Members could at any time propose any law in the form of a parliamentary motion and could already be adopted. But you don't have them ready. And the second thing is that you don't really want to deal with anything for Czech citizens either. We call on you again, so don't make a speech elsewhere and stop attacking the opposition with false arguments. Once again, I call on the Government to present a plan on how it wants to address the current situation, both in budgetary terms and in terms of the health system and in terms of the education system, and in terms of the labour market situation, and also the situation surrounding the price increase. That's it, here's the answer we're waiting for. But by attacking the opposition parties and lying about us, you're not gonna turn those questions away anyway. So, briefly and briefly, you can stop with Putin, because Okamura or any SPD has nothing to do with Putin or Russia. Nor do we have anything in common with Brussels or Washington or Beijing. The only country east of us that I have a lot in common with, and I love her, and I'm not ashamed of it, is Japan. And by the way, I think that if our country had approached the standard of living, the standard of living and the social services of Japan, that would have been really nice. That's where I take the examples. By the way, I was watching Japanese TV right now because I watch it every night, so there were elections in some regions, so there are directly elected mayors, directly elected captains, just there is a direct democracy. It's exactly the model of the direct responsibility. And it's a country where the standard of living is extremely high, people are proud of their country and have a positive relationship with each other. That is why I say again for the SPD, we are ready, and I say it from the beginning, we want to bring society together, we want to work together, we want all people in the Czech Republic, whether they have different opinions, live well, so that we don't argue here, so that we don't swear here and that citizens of the Czech Republic are happy to live in the Czech Republic and know that they stand behind them. So I wanted to ask you once again to stop dividing society, to stop inciting hatred in people, because the fact that we have different political views does not mean that you will constantly inspire hatred against each other, and you will constantly turn one person against another. I think the debate can be cultivated and it can be such that the Czech Republic goes forward. So again, I'm calling you to stop lying about the SPD. If you say anything, it'll be supported by evidence. Because the fact that someone has any opinions does not mean that it is something bad or that it is something against the Czech Republic. Of course, when someone meets with the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, like the People's Party, it's an organization that says that there are people who question Benešův's decrees, and that's the problem. I haven't met anyone in Russia, nor Russian government officials, nor Putin. I don't know anyone in the SPD who's seeing or even communicating with someone like that. I don't know anyone like that who would communicate with Russian government officials, coordinate anything with them. I know that some government politicians are coming to the American embassy. I know that. But that we would attend meetings at some embassy and some events, which I really don't remember, outside of some official event where I saw but also representatives of the current government coalition, I must say. So that's what I'd like to say about this. So, please, let's get to work for the citizens. Let's introduce the plan. As for the emergency situation, I must say that the performance of Vice Prime Minister and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan was a great disappointment to me, because he didn't defend here at all, he didn't explain why there was an emergency situation. So he was right about our arguments when the SPD will vote against the emergency situation, because there is no need for an emergency situation, and the situation can be dealt with under existing crisis legislation. So he didn't explain it at all. And on the contrary, it is really ruthless and desperate that instead of focusing on the difficult situation in the Czech Republic, the SPD here will still be the target of some imaginary and lying attacks. [[12.30 hours]] And now I see it again, as government officials are certainly prepared, and instead of talking about how they will improve the lives of Czech citizens, they will go back to Okamura and the SPD and lie and lie and lie and lie and attack again and again and again and again. But, folks, I would like to call you again and remind you that you are the government, you are the government coalition, you should really start working to improve the lives of Czech citizens. By the way, final question. In January, you started working based on your government statement on one of your priorities, the national cock contest. Are you done yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. And now, with priority right, President Marek will perform Výborný, President Alena Schillerová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor. Before you get off, I remind you that factual remarks are not possible. I have here Mr Koten, Marek the Výborný already knows about this, and Madam President will also delete you, yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I did not report with fact, but I applied in response - and I will be happy to do so - to say a substantive, completely factual contribution from our colleague Patrik Nacher. Those were clear arguments, and I want to respond to that, too, but unfortunately, in the meantime, President Okamura has already appeared here, and I think it is also necessary to respond to that. There's no way he could have come here, at the end of his speech he said he wanted to cultivate a cultivated dialogue here, and we had another hour of manure from the SPD Chairman's barn, lies, efforts to divide, hatefully turn people against each other. And someone who can prove it - I have to stand up for the ministers of this government, the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka. Of course no one made that up. Tomio Okamura is probably the only one in this House who puts quotes on his Facebook by personalities with whom he disagrees. Well, the fact that he had Vladimir Vladimirovič Putin's quotes, it only happened because he didn't agree with it dramatically or something like that. Well, the fact that he's here is the mouthpiece of these Proputin circles, it's not a thing that would be new here for a month and became after the military invasion and aggression of Putinův's regime to Ukraine. That's the thing that's been known for a long time, and what's modeling the desperation of Tomio Okamura, well, that's exactly the arguments we've been having here, and we've been experiencing, I personally, for the sixth year. Every time Tomi Okamur runs out of arguments, he pulls out who but the Landsmanshaft and the Sudeton German card? And, of course, against whom? Against the folklore, Pavel Bělobrádek and others. Well, that's the stuff we're used to. And I believe that every citizen of the Czech Republic, if anyone is even listening, will take a picture of it himself. But I don't think it can be crossed only by this statement that this is Mr Okamura's bullshit, Tomio Okamura, but I think it's also necessary to react factually to this, so that, by chance, a hundred times repeated lies in someone's case do not become a reality here. Through the Vice-President, if this is not stupid at all, or if you have the stomach for it, colleagues from the SPD, to listen to your President so that you can get a picture, I quote you from the Czech Television Naostro. On March 24, 2002, the chairman of the Sudeton German compatriotic association Bernd Posselt, so many times here, expressed by your chairman, and I quote literally what was said on this programme: To me, national socialism and everything related to it is one of the most monstrous crimes of the 20th century, to the extent that the Sudeten Němec have contributed to it. - I repeat, the Sudeten Němec were involved. And they were part of it, says Bernd Posselt. It is a disgrace and, as President of the Sudeten German compatriotic association, I want to make it very clear to the Czech nation that it was a disgraceful regime for me. And when the Sudeten Němec participated in it, I have to take my share of responsibility for it, because I was born after this time, and I have to ask the Czech nation for forgiveness for the shameful acts that this criminal regime has committed. [[Even though?]] The Sudeten Němec were involved in this, there's no way to embezzle anything here, there's no way to relativize anything here. So these are the words of the President of the Sudeten German Regional Association. And you have the audacity, Mr Tomio Okamura, through Madam President, to accuse us of being someone's fifth column? You, who are clearly, clearly the fifth column of Putinův's regime, so how do you prove it here for years flying? I think that's absolutely outrageous. This quote had to be heard here, I said it quite purposefully and consciously so that these things would be clarified once and for all, although I am almost certain that once again, when your chairman's arguments run out, when he gets into trouble again, he will pull out the Sudeton German card here again. So that's true. So if we want to cultivate a cultivated approach, mutual respect, admission of guilt, that's what I've been quoting here, but with that also associated forgiveness, it's certainly not the way the SPD and Tomio Okamura do it. So much in response to that. Of course, your screams, through Madam Vice-President, Mr President, about the fact that the government is doing nothing, that it does not have a plan and so on, so perhaps it is pointless to comment. If I am not mistaken, you have also voted in favour of some of the laws put forward by the government about seven or eight days after Russia's aggression against Ukraine in a situation where there was a need and still a need to help Ukrainian refugees. I must clearly reject what is repeated in the subtext of your words here. If we want to bang the strings of fear, hatred in this House, that is exactly what does not unite this society, what divides it, and what harms the citizens of the Czech Republic in the final. And I will get to what I have claimed to be the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club with priority rights, and that is the response to Mr Nacher, who here, let's say, had legal arguments, but also political reasons why it is not appropriate to ask for an extension of the emergency for a longer period of 30 days. So I would just like to remind you that there is no such deadline in the Constitutional Law on State Security, 30 days is the announcement of an emergency, or at the time of the announcement of an emergency by the government, but then, with the consent of the Chamber of Deputies, the emergency situation may be extended, there is no deadline. And I say honestly, Mr Member, through Madam Vice-President, that there are different legal opinions on this, including among constitutional lawyers. I respect that. However, to be clear here... Well, first thing, important. The situation that we've been experiencing here for two years, I mean the individual covid emergency states, was diametrically different from the situation we're in today. We're not restricting freedom of movement today, we're not closing any business. And I don't deny that it was necessary at some point when we were dealing with covid, so yes, in order to handle the whole pandemic, we had to go to these extreme steps. There had to be restrictions on rights that we couldn't imagine a few years ago, that we would have restricted them here in the House, that we would have closed shops, that we would be restricting freedom of movement, curfews and so on. Yet, this House, knowing the opposition at the time, has done so. Nothing like this has happened in the last 30 days. If I'm wrong, I'll be glad to hear it here when you say that the emergency situation for helping refugees, so that regional assistance centres work, so that we can relocate accommodation capacities within the Czech Republic, so that you here in Prague and Central Bohemia are not overwhelmed and you do not have to look for extraordinary accommodation capacities in gymnasiums that are unfortunate and undignified to those mothers, women, grandmothers, families, children who come here, that is why the emergency situation is needed. [[12.40 hours]] Your captains, the captains of the ANO movement, but of course our captain Jan Grolich, the commanders behind the ODS, and others know that without an emergency situation, the regional assistance centres will of course be able to exist, no one will cancel them, but they will not have effective tools to quickly accommodate them, so that they can quickly issue visas with temporary protection status, as we finally approved here within the lex Ukraine. So the two emergency states - today's one, today's one, if we want to say Ukrainian, and the ones we've been experiencing here for two years - are dramatically different in that sense. What needs to be said, and this has not been said here, Mr colleague, through Madam President, your government, the Government of Andrej Babiš, has asked once - yes, I will be honest, I will say once, namely on 27 October 2020 - for an extension of the emergency for more than 30 days. So the precedent is here in some way. However, it is necessary to know, yes, the House has never agreed to this, on the contrary, very often the majority of the House back then, composed, logically, it was your minority government, so the position of the then government here was different from the present one, but I do not want to measure the muscles here by whether it is majority government or minority, but I want to remind you that the House did not extend the emergency situation for more than 30 days, but not because it was in a situation where the majority government ruled, but instead the minority government. To derive - that was also said here - from the practice of a total of nine requests for consent to an extension of the emergency situation, when only once it has been granted in full, so to derive from it some constitutional custom seems to me to be very controversial. Perhaps we can hardly conclude from one parliamentary term of one minority government and nine requests to prolong the emergency situation that there is some constitutional custom that all subsequent governments are to follow. This is rather a reflection of some political situation that has been here, a confrontation between the government and the opposition, a House majority, opposition back then, and a minority government that has been here in the past period, but it is difficult to create a constitutional custom according to which parliamentary democracy in the Czech Republic should follow in the following periods. If the constitutionalist really wanted to move forward in the spirit, as has been said here, I suppose there was nothing easier than putting the time limit for extending the emergency situation into the constitutional law on state security. This did not happen, which means that it is certainly justified to interpret that the government can extend if, however, it has factual arguments - and they have been put forward here - for an extension of more than 30 days. And in conclusion, perhaps one more important thing. This is not the House's benevolence or the contempt of the House's majority by the minority. At any time during the period, if the House gives its consent when the emergency situation is prolonged, any member of the Members of the Clubs may, at any time, initiate emergency termination negotiations, or parliamentary scrutiny is maintained here, just as judicial control is maintained here, as the individual actions taken under the emergency situation are, of course, subject to judicial review, as was the case at the time of the covid as it was in the time of Ukraine. So many of the arguments that I wanted to make here in a comment on Patrik Nacher's performance. The first one I would have preferred to forgive, but we live in a democracy, and I am happy for it, and I will always defend it and defend it, living in freedom of speech and speech. Here at the counter, any Member can actually say what he thinks is appropriate. Unfortunately, sometimes these are words at the level of the fourth price group, which we have repeatedly witnessed here. But sometimes it is necessary to respond to that. Therefore, my perhaps somewhat sharp commentary on Mr Okamur. But it's not possible to cross those words with silence, because we'd be looking for a much bigger mess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Alena Schillerová will now perform with priority rights and President Josef Cogan will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have a much more practical incentive, a request, if Mr. First Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary could speak and tell us if the key members of the government will come. I'm not asking about the Prime Minister, I know he's sick, I've read it in public sources, I understand and I wish him an early recovery. But I ask, we had the idea that the key ministers - the Minister of Education, Health, the Minister of Regional Development, maybe the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior spoke, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, there I was running a bit when he was probably talking, and they're going to tell us the strategy, how it's going to be in schools, how it's going to be in health, what I said in my opening speech, what people are asking. And that we will respond to this if necessary by further questions, suggestions. And that will be the matter-of-fact and constructive debate. If I look for myself, now the Minister of Labour has arrived, thank you, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister is here too, but we miss the other ministers. I don't want to prolong the debate by taking a break. I didn't come here with that. Just please, if we could get information, yes, the Minister of Education will come, the Minister of Health will come, the Minister of Regional Development will come, so we can just have this information. Because then we're talking, don't be mad at me, just a little bit for ourselves. And we want to know how you want to deal with it, what it is, why... We know you need an emergency. But what about everything in the context of the refugee crisis, what strategy you have - short-term, medium-term. And we don't have partners here for this discussion. So please, if perhaps Mr. First Vice Prime Minister could comment on this, because I assume he represents the Prime Minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u21	Yes, thank you, Madam President. President Cogan is registered, but he prefers, if I may also ask Mr... Let's just say... Sorry, Vice-President. You're not logged in yet. Before you... But the Vice-President just wants to give a brief answer to the President when the ministers are coming, if you don't mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for your kindness. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The Minister of Health is in Brussels on business, he is duly excused. I don't know when he's coming back. The Minister of Education will attend the meeting. The Minister for Regional Development will also attend the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. And I thank everyone for being kind enough to let the Home Secretary perform. And now the President of STAN Josef Cogan is registered with priority rights. Michal Kučera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to our debate. We need to talk about what we're dealing with today. We are discussing and discussing an extension of the emergency situation that is here as a result of the war initiated by Russia. We are trying to help the victims of this aggressive war, Russia. And I have to say that the emergency situation here is only needed for the part of the instruments that the government needs so that the state is consolidated so that they can help these victims. And basically, I think that the ministers who needed this part clearly explained the thing here. And of course, as has been said, they will come and share information with those who may not need the emergency. I think it was very well discussed here also by colleague Mark Výborný, I actually wanted to answer almost the same thing about the deadline. [[12.50 hours]] Yes, there is probably a dispute between us as a coalition and colleagues from YES, how long the duration of the emergency period should be. This is certainly a relevant political debate on this subject on this deadline and, of course, I take it completely right. But I also have to say that we have heard the words of the SPD President about this situation. Yeah, we're dealing with an emergency here today. We're not dealing with the other stuff. We can decide on his extension, and we can decide that at the end. He's been mixing pears, apples, mixing everything together, things that don't relate to the subject of today's negotiations. It's kind of like his classic, he's really trying to make a hundred-time repeat lie come true. Yes, this is a quote from Goebbels, I think, and that's exactly what I think it is that right here today corresponds to this thing, who argued in this way. He told us here that he had nothing to do with Russia, that his views are not against the Czech Republic. Is he kidding us? Or doesn't he even reflect what he wrote or had on his Facebook page? What is the weight of this man's words? I don't think so. What is the weight of the words of a person who wrote on his profile: "The government of Petr Fiala and the secret service of the US and other NATO countries are inciting Russia's conflict with Ukraine. We don't want a war! The SPD's movement considers the current situation in Ukraine to be a consequence of the pressure of intelligence services under the baton of the US, Great Britain and some NATO states, which are trying to start a war between the Russian Federation and Ukraine.' - Then do you feel that he had nothing to do with Russia? That they're not defending him? Does anyone feel that way? Well, maybe SPD colleagues, I believe so, but to any judge, if he reads those words, he wants to throw up. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And let's put these words in the context of time. These words are written by the chairman of the SPD after Vrbětice, after the Russian terrorist attack in our state. So after this, he writes, just two days before Russia attacked the war of Ukraine, at a time when Russia had deployed and deployed troops at the borders of Ukraine, when they claimed it was just an exercise. In this context, two days before they attacked the Ukraine barbarically, this is what the chairman of the SPD writes. I don't know. Are these the words of someone who considers himself a patriot? He's a patriot of the flag movement before and during the war with the Němec. The flag movement, I guess. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I have to say, these aren't really the words of a patriot. Those are my fifth column words, those are the words of a traitor, a minion, just a collaborator! And what would a man do if he had a little honor? At least a drop of honor in yourself? Well, I think some ritual harakiri would probably be the minimum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And now Mr. Michal Kučera, Vice-President of the TOP 09 Club, has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would only react briefly. Since factual remarks are not possible, I would briefly respond to my previous speaker, President Cogan. I think, Mr President, who knows President Tomio Okamura and President of the Dawn of Direct Democracy a little longer, he can't be surprised. He can't be surprised. We've been listening to his lies here for a long time. And, of course, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, it has taken on its intensity. The fact that President Okamura didn't become Vice-President of the House, that he had to leave his luxury office, that he had to give up the car with the driver, obviously it left some consequences on him, then it manifests itself here at the speaker's counter. Unfortunately, President Okamura has to live with us today, with ordinary fellow Members, and he has to share with us places outside the luxury office he was used to. And, of course, you can see it. I think you all have noticed how tame President Okamura was in his opposition role last term. Very tame. Well, of course he had the driver, he had the luxury car, he had the fancy office with the valet, so he's not surprised there weren't any of these long speeches. By the way, recycled speeches, because the speech that was made here today, we've heard it a hundred times. There was nothing new. It's always the same, he only reads it from the back, from the front, from the center, back and forth, but it's more or less the same. I have been thinking for many months that there is no point in responding to President Okamura. After all, the fact that there was a dramatic change and he had to move to his original office doesn't seem to do him any good, I thought, eventually he'll get over it. However, no. He keeps blaming us all for lying. And I thought I'd never say that. But I say, "Golden Andrej Babiš." At least that was some discussion, and at least there were some facts. [[Mrs Schiller is starting to applaud and members of the YES and the coalition are joining.]] Unfortunately, the lying, the lying we hear here from Tomio Okamura is absolutely unbelievable. I was just trying to put "Liar Okamura" in my search engine. Well, guess how many tens of thousands of references I've lost. Indeed, these are tens of thousands of references in connection with Okamura the liar. This, of course, can be seen from all those contributions, which, of course, are also sent by his supporters to social networks who are not ashamed of being members or supporters of the Dawn of Direct Democracy. [[Noise from the left.]] jo, sorry, SPD. [[With laughter.]] I wasn't here last term, before it was the Dawn of Direct Democracy. [[Noise and applause from the right.]] He then privatized Tomio Okamura somehow, and then it became the SPD. I just found a quick article here - I will read - Independent newspaper: "President of the SPD Tomio Okamura hid posts on his Facebook profile in which Vladimir Putin emphasized. He regularly shared photographs and quotes of the Russian President with the consent commentary. Now they're not available. In his last days, he refuses to hold pro-Russian positions." - I mean, this is written by an expert on extremism, it's not a politician, it's experts on extremism, who, of course, deal with Tomio Okamura's speeches and, of course, the SPD supporters' contributions. By the way, I suspect that none of the supporters of any political party has yet committed a terrorist attack on the train as one of the supporters of the SPD. And I think we all remember when there were these anti-pandemic demonstrations, because she's a plus or minus similar set, proputin, and part of those anti-pandemic protestors is more or less identical. So this is where a police officer was wounded by a supporter of the SPD. So I guess there's nowhere else to see it. I'd like to say I've never seen and never seen so many calls for executions, death threats. And all this on the contributions of the SPD supporters. I sometimes make some printscreens, so if they delete it, I have it. Some group reports it to the Police of the Czech Republic because these people probably don't realize they're committing crimes. And to their hatred, to their hatred, these are the very manifestations of Tomio Okamura. What Tomio Okamura always does here means that tonight people who have information only from his Facebook account sit down and say, "We will execute you, we will torture you, your wife will not live, your children will not live... It's Tomio Okamura's fault. You know, I don't think I'm gonna be doing this any longer. Whoever's lying here is perfectly clear. After all, the search engine references are pretty clear. And if someone is lying here, taking advantage of the situation and causing extremist sentiments in society, that is Mr Tomio Okamura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, too. And now with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura is signed in and the rapporteur Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, as I expected, the government is completely desperate, and there's already a bucket of sewage in my name, because you have no subject other than Okamura or Babiš. Because you're not doing any work for the citizens yourself, and the citizens are getting desperate for this expensive thing that you just don't have to deal with. And I think it just proves who sees this, that you have no solution for the citizens. But I'm going to take it specifically now, because first there was a representative of the KDU-ČSL Marek Výborný. So here I would like to say what events the KDU-ČSL representatives, TOP 09 and also Social Democrats attend. And just a moment ago, this is where the TOP 09 MP was performing. So to tell you what, I'm going to sum this up to one, the reaction to what kind of organization the representatives of the TOP 09, such as the TOP 09 member Daniel Korte, are running. Or KDU-ČSL MPs. You go to the events of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, which is an organization founded by Nazis, fascists and German chauvinists. Not only KDU-ČSL politicians participated in the convention, but also ex-minister Michaela Marksová Tominová and Member TOP 09 Daniel Korte. The chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala worked with the foreman of the Sudeton German Landsmansaft Bernd Posselt. The Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, KDU-ČSL, referred to judges as "nice compatriots." For the SPD movement, it is totally unacceptable for the official representatives of our country to go to this organization's meeting. And I'll tell you why. Part of the so-called nice countrymen, Mr. MP... What was the name of the MP, please, who spoke before me? [[Question to the President. Vice-President Kovářová: Michal Kučera.]] Kučera, yeah, because I don't know his name. Because I'm often the target of ankle-kicking from people I don't know at all and most of the public doesn't know them, so I'm sorry I had to ask again who's gotten into me again. I'm used to it. So Mr Kučera from TOP 09, I suppose, because I don't know him at all, the gentleman, but he's from TOP 09, he's from TOP 09, so he's part of the so-called nice compatriots, Mr Kučera from TOP 09 - and Mr. Výborný of the People's Party, through Madam President, he's also part of the Witikobund organization. [[President Olga Richter: I beg you, through me.]] It's clearly linked to the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. I quote from the 2004 report by the Czech Ministry of Interior to know who the TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL members are meeting with. If, in my opinion, anyone is a collaborator and if, in my opinion, someone is a traitor, it's you! And I quote from the 2004 Czech Interior Ministry report. Ministry of Interior of Czech Republic. "Attention is also earned by the organization of the Sudeton German Nazis Witikobund, who spread anti-Czech views in the Landsmanshaft environment." In the Landsmanshaft environment, they spread anti-Czech views. You like it there, don't you? At the Landsmanshaft Conventions. "The programme of the organization is" - I am still quoting the report of the Ministry of the Interior - "the programme of the organization is to undo alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate lies about German crimes including the so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought." End of quote from the 2004 Ministry of Interior report. In 1949, one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, the so-called Eichstätt Advent Declaration, was announced, where, among other things, these requirements appear - I quote: "Our inalienable requirement is the return of our homeland to the linguistic borders of 1937. It is about establishing a sustainable relationship between Germany and its West Slavic neighbours. The readiness of the Čech and Polák to return their homeland to the exiled Němec would also be a prerequisite. All these tasks can only be addressed within the framework of the federalist organisation of Europe." And that's what you're trying to do. After all, a member of the government coalition Jan Farský went to the U.S. to study the transformation of Europe into a federal arrangement for the STAN movement. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala knew about it, and Vít Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN, knew about it. So it all fits. It all fits into one another. And these Members, who are for the People's Party and the TOP 09, attend these conventions. This means, if anyone in my opinion acts as a collaborator or a traitor, it is these representatives of KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. Completely proven. But let's keep going. Who signed the so-called Eichstätt Advent Declaration, which is one of the basic documents of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which includes the Witikobund organization? This declaration has been signed - and I stress again - by KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 politicians regularly attend these events of Sudeten German Landsmanshaft - which really makes me sick now that I read it! It's totally puking where you go! They signed this: Becher, former supporter of Kameradschaftsbund, member of NSDAP. It was signed by Walter Brand, a member of the Henlein movement. It was signed by Brehm, SS-Sturmbannführer, the bearer of the NSDAP gold party badge. Signed by Hergl, SS-Hauptsturmführer, NSDAP's official. It was signed by Hönig, a member of the NSDAP, a Nazi journalist. - You're fine there, aren't you? At this event! I would never go there in my life! I would never go there in my life. - Götz, former associate of the Nazi Secret Service, member of the NSDAP. Lemberg, a Nazi, a member of the Sudeten German Freikorps in 1938. Turnwald, member of NSDAP Franzel, under the occupation of a police officer unit involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylisy! - That's crazy where you go! I'm sick of it, even with the microphone. I hate fascists, I have to be honest, and I hate Nazis. They were really killing our patriots here, and I never thought I'd be here in the House with someone who goes there! To the conventions of this organization! - And there he signed Zawadil, a high-ranking NSDAP official and a fellow Nazi intelligence officer. Schreiber, former Nazi. Preissler, former Nazi. Jaksch, that was the Social Democrat. Reitzner, Social Democrat. Sladek, spiritual. And so on and so forth. On January 25, 1950, Sudeton German landsmanshaft set up a meeting in Detmold, where the second basic statement of the Sudeton German landsmanshaft was accepted, which once again claimed legal claim to the homeland and to reclaim the homeland. Or it's questioning the postwar arrangement of Czechoslovakia. Among the 17 signatories, it was once again crawling with former NSDAP officials: Lodgman, Tins, Staffen, Wollner, Leibl, Schmidt, Schneider, Diewock, Benatzky and others. I think, according to the SPD movement, the official representative of our state shouldn't be driving around with a Nazi past to meet "nice compatriots," as you call it in the People's Republic. Honestly, nobody should ride them. So I think, and I really suggest that we get back to the actual emergency debate. [[Laughter from the benches on the right.]] Because - yes, but the emergency situation is also connected with the fact that you do not solve the problems of Czech citizens and the like. You're trying to separate it, but that's it. [[13.10 hours]] And I can tell you one thing, if you're gonna lie about the SPD and attack the SPD again, you know what I'm gonna tell you from last term. And I think the debate became more relevant after that. I'll read it to you every time for three and a half years. I will read it to you a hundred times, so that millions of Czech citizens can hear what meetings and who your friends are - friends TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. Why and where you're going. I'm sick of this, seeing that list you guys are going to, and who you're friends with! It's disgusting. But now it's also quite typical that when I was still in charge of the House, as if I wasn't here to comment on the nonsense Mr. Kučera said, because before I was Vice President of the House, I was driving a better private car than I had as Vice-President of the House, so I have no idea what this is all about. Some fool, so I don't understand what he's talking about. And I had a driver, by the way, unpaid, of course, from the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, because logically I was not in charge of the Chamber of Deputies. So I don't understand what he's talking about. He's crazy, he's a liar. This is where this guy lies over and over again. That's completely unbelievable. I don't know what he's talking about. When it comes down to it, my office, which I have now, has a much better view, and it's in a better place than the office I had in charge of the House. I don't know what he's talking about, what it says here, what a classy debate it is! That's completely unbelievable. That's just some crazy guy, that guy. I don't get it at all. The coalition just lies over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. So I just wanted to say that if you continue with these SPD lies, of course, because you don't have anything else to do with it, and I'm gonna smile here, because it's not gonna help you either in preferences or in anything else, and it's not gonna hurt us, your lies, because our voter already knows your lies and your history, and he sees it on his wallets mainly that causes your government's inaction. And they will still see it on their wallets, because you are unable to improve the lives of Czech citizens in the Czech Republic. That's what I'm saying now that I don't, because I know you. Just like you said you knew me, like you didn't know me at all. I haven't been to a beer with you, but I know you very well here from your government business. That's what I think is proven, and everyone sees it. So I'm gonna keep telling you this over and over again, Top 09 and KDU-ČSL. It's okay. Today, I'm sure over 100,000 people will see this speech, and, of course, they'll do it again on my social networks. If we repeat this here for three and a half years, millions, millions of people will see it, and they will see it. It's okay. So if this is how you want to have fun, lie... I tell the facts, you tell lies. Those are the facts. Everyone knows, and I'm gonna invite any spectators here, type in names like Herman or Bělobrádek, now I don't call them, and the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft in Google. Your photos are coming out. There's no need to argue about whether Okamura's making it up or not. That's right. It's just that, and don't fight it. Even what I have read to you here is the true history of the organization with which the members of the TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL are friends. And if you feel like it, I'll read it to you. We have plenty of time today, obviously, to judge from your reactions, because I had a speech on the issue of emergency. Mr. Jurečka's and Mr. Rakušan's speeches fell into personal attacks, still invented, so you've shown that there's obviously plenty of time. I think there's little time, because citizens are desperate, there's a need to help citizens, so I'm gonna read this place over and over for three and a half years. So it's just your choice, whether we're gonna read this place over and over again, or we're gonna start -- yes, the political struggle on political issues is okay, a tough political struggle, but not a low-level fight where you lie here and turn the SPD into someone's fifth column. And you have no proof of that. And if someone is the fifth column here, and I don't even call you that, I'm gonna have it evaluated, I'm not gonna go to your level just to call you the fifth column, why? I read it here, and everyone makes a picture of themselves. And we can read it over and over again. So once again, I'm thinking quite helpfully, let's end this debate on a personal level, we've said our own, you've blamed us here, I've given the facts in response to that, which is why I preferred to read and quote everything here, and let's go back to the emergency situation. I'm suggesting it. Let's get back to emergency. And I told you last time. I'd like it in this House, because the citizens are really busy. They really don't have time. Everything because of your government's inactivity, which is also true, you can attack me a hundred times, so deny that it is not, and what you are preparing for proposals. So let's have a really hard political time here, let's play it politically here, but we could just leave these imaginary invests, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u29	This was a priority right, followed by another, followed by a priority right, yet signed by the rapporteur Patrik Nacher. Isn't that right? You want to use your applications. You'd prefer. Thank you for the agreement, i.e. with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u30	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Thank you, my colleague Nacher, for your helpfulness. I will not be long, but I will not respond to those incredible lies - the lies of Mr Tomio Okamura, when he comes here and spills this bucket on everyone, and the idea of quoting from his paper so quotes the truth is really incredible. So that we don't stay on a plane just to say that he's clearly demonstrating collaboratorial practices here, so I quote the facts. Witikobund is not - I stress it is not - a member of the Sudeten German Regional Association, it is a separate organisation which has not been consistently allowing the management of the Sudeten German Regional Association to participate in any event of the Sudeten German Regional Association for years, it does not allow it to set up an information booth during the Sudeten German Day, nor does it allow it to have the status of guest of honor at meetings of the Sudeten German Regional Association. Well, here, Mr Okamura, through Madam President, don't lie! You're a liar. And read the Home Office report properly. [[I've got it right here!]] You've got it there, great, so read the word. There's landmanshafts in there. You're wrong, it's not the Sudeten German compatriotic association. You just proved your ignorance. I'm bohužel so. I'm just saying about this microphone right here. Mr Okamura has no idea what he has ahead of him and what he is reading. It needs to be made clear. It has nothing to do with it. And I am proud of my fellow Member Pavel Bělobrádek, I am proud of our member, former Minister of Culture Dan Herman, my President Marian Jurečka and others, politicians not only from KDU-ČSL, but also from a number of other parties who claim reconciliation, the concept of forgiveness in respect of the fact that the other party confesses its guilt - you left here, so you did not hear what I clearly said when I quote Bernd Posselt, who clearly says, the Sudeten Němec were involved in this, there is nothing possible to come forward here, there is nothing to be relativized, when there is nothing to apologize for those actions - not mine, because he was not even in the world. So you come in and you sow hatred, you lie here, you lie here repeatedly, so it needs to be said here. You lie repeatedly and about the organization, which, by the way, once again, let it be said here, on the one hand, repeatedly distancing itself from right-wing and left-wing extremism, from national socialism. That's understandable, you can find it. I understand that whoever wants to lie and thinks that a hundred times a lie will become true, so that we probably won't convince it, and not you at all, because, unfortunately, we had to get used to your lies, your invectives here. Just to get back to the facts. One of the most famous Auschwitz prisoners of Czech origin Max Mannhemier or one of the winners of the European Karlovy Vary Prize, former President of the Central Jewish Council in Germany, Mrs Charlotte Knoblochová, was also a member of the Sudeton German Regional Association. To them, your words are an incredible outrage. I'm defending myself against it. I think there really is no point in continuing this debate, but if you think, Mr President, through the Vice-President, that you will get off here, you will lie and we will listen and not respond, it really will not. If you weren't standing here at that table where, of course, as an MP, you have the right to say what you want, including those buckets of manure that you like and regularly pour out here, these are things that could, of course, have criminal consequences elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, too, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for the five-wheelers.]] And now, the rapporteur, Patrik Nacher, will come forward and prepare herself with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for your word. It is difficult to follow up, because I want to lead it on the material level and on the topics that I have raised here, and Marek has answered some questions to me Výborný, by your means, Madam Vice-President. He said that even in the past government, there was a request for a longer period than 30 days. So I looked at the incriminating days or months he'd given. I have a government resolution from September 30th, when an emergency is announced from October 5th to 30th days, and so is the follow-up from October 30th to November 20th, that is 20 days. I really didn't find it when I was doing my prep, not one application that would have been over 30 days. And there was still no answer to my question as to why you're so reluctant to declare this emergency for 30 days, that's the reason that it's going to be constant or that it's not going to change so fast that it's going to take longer, so I told you it was going to be true for the covid. However, the situation and the individual measures can, of course, change over time. What needs to be dealt with at this point, let's say in relation to accommodation, so in a month, when I see the Minister of Education here, maybe the problem will move to another area, the accommodation will be solved and you need to deal with education, social area and so on. That is why I think it would be appropriate for you to ask for it to be at the length of the last term, that is, 30 days. Thirty days. Here you are, you've never done this, here's an offer from the opposition to support this matter. And if it's double, then don't be mad at me, it seems a little bit arrogant: we're going 58 days, almost two months, because here we have most of it. And it bothers me, and don't be mad at me, it's nothing personal, but it's just a statement of facts, it's the contrast between when I really remember the debates in this hallway: well, 30 days, but we're gonna approve you 12. It's gonna be by the end of the calendar month and so on, or 11 is the least, but I know there were these debates, and now there's the 58. I just think it's obvious. I don't know why to worry about it. In 30 days, you're going to ask the ministers again and again if they're actually going to perform here, because so far, only the Home Secretary has spoken, defending the necessity and the position. And that's how you wanted it, and that's how it feels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. And now with Prime Minister Schillerová, then President Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u34	Well, thank you, thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm glad that President Výborný here said that there's no point in the debate that's been going on here, so I'm definitely not going to continue it, and I'm going to put it back on that material plane. President Výborný - here colleagues are arguing, if I may speak to you about what you are arguing about, if I can, through the Vice-President, just say something here. I'm going to follow Mr. Excellent and I'm not going to repeat the arguments here, I'm quoting Mr... I'm actually going to stick to the constitutionality of that deadline right now. I quoted Mr. Constitutional Lawyer Kysela, he spoke a moment ago, I saw it on the networks, he spoke in the Continuum of Czech Television, and there he repeated it, his reasons for seeing a 30-day deadline in the context of the legislation as one that should be respected. And I'm not gonna say it here again. Then, of course, I had other opinions pulled out here by other lawyers. But a moment ago, and I think that when it came to me by e-mail, it came to you too, I received from the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - a permanent Senate commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and parliamentary procedures, it was from the 9th meeting held on March 29, 2022 to the constitutional limits of extending the emergency situation. If you don't mind, it's a few paragraphs, I'll read it. It just landed on my e-mail. So maybe we have faster pipes. I'm looking at Prime Minister Excellent, he hasn't got it yet. The permanent commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and parliamentary procedures states: for the corresponding interpretation of Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, as amended by constitutional laws, considers one which limits the extension of the emergency state to a maximum period of 30 days, especially for these reasons - And I dare to quote them, there aren't many: (a) in principle, the emergency situation is declared by the Government for a maximum period of 30 days, which may be extended after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies, but the Government shall decide on it; (b) if the Government's decision to extend the emergency situation on the basis of the consent granted once was not bound by any deadline, it may continue until the revocation by the Government or by the Chamber of Deputies, for example for years, without further parliamentary consultation, because the political discussion of the Government with the majority of the Chamber of Deputies involves the risk of blocking negotiations on proposals for cancellation of the emergency situation, the more so if the Institute is to be used on a single basis on 18 February 2021, the vote was taken on the agenda; (c) the extension of the emergency situation requires the active approval of the Chamber of Deputies, while the majority of the negative must be established in the event of an emergency situation, which is not the same numerically or politically; (d) the extension of the emergency situation shall not exceed 30 days is better suited to the government's decision on a maximum period of 30 days; This exposes it to the need to defend itself before the Chamber of Deputies and the public as to why the emergency situation should continue; This highlights the fact that the emergency situation is an exceptional institute and, last but not least, it is confirmed by the continuous constitutional practice of the last two years; (e) in the absence of judicial control of emergency decision-making, the Chamber of Deputies has increased responsibility for the sole control of Parliament, which would have been significantly weakened if the practice had to be enforced different from the previous one - compare Government Order No. 233 of 23 March 2022; it is the time limit that forces the account to be deposited; (f) although the current emergency situation is less brittle than the pandemic emergency situation, it still has the potential for serious intervention in the normal functioning of public power as well as in fundamental rights and freedoms, so that control over its duration should not be reduced; In addition, the constitutional regulation does not distinguish the emergency situation based on the impact, and other governments in other situations will be able to rely on one enforcement procedure; Instructs the President of the Commission to present this resolution to the President of the Senate, to brief the senators and to send it to the President of the Chamber of Deputies for information. Please take this into account in your vote. I will read during the debate the counter-proposal to extend the emergency by 30 days. The YES movement is ready to vote, we tried it out this morning at the club, for those 30 days. Consider it. This is also said by the Permanent Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Parliamentary Procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Madam President. [[Let's hear it for YES and SPD.]] And now, with priority rights, President Marek will perform Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I am also glad that the debate has returned to this material position. I did not really get the resolution from today, none of the senators remembered me to send the resolution. However, I respect the Commission's resolution. The secretary of this commission is Professor Kysela, who has been mentioned here and who has already stated his legal opinion in the previous days in the media, as in many other matters, when we were talking about other constitutional issues. Remember, Madam President, through Madam Vice-President, the debate on the electoral law, for example, was very excited. There were different legal opinions about it, too. I respect that. That's right. [[13.30 hours]] So I just want to ask a rhetorical question. If this is what you say, and it will also be a response to my colleague Patrik Nacher, I ask why, on 27 October 2020, your government led by Prime Minister Andrej Babiš by order No. 1104 has requested an extension of the emergency for more than 30 days in a pandemic, at a time completely different from today? So that's the one case. Yes, it is one single precedent, but once again, so that my colleague Nacher can find it, I will say this date: 27 October 2020, the Government asked the Government to extend the emergency situation by December 3, 2020. Yes, the House didn't comply, the House only partially complied with, I think until November 20th, the emergency was prolonged then. Well, there was another situation, it was a minority government, it didn't have a majority here in the House. So it's just a rhetorical question. And I'm going to go back to what I said here. Back then, we were limiting freedom of movement by emergency conditions. Remember, the districts were closed, there were barriers at the county borders, the police, were dramatically, unprecedentedly in the history of the Czech Republic restricted freedom of movement, shops, services were closed and so on, it fell on every single citizen of the Czech Republic. I'm asking: In the last 30 days in what, Mr Nacher, through Madam Vice-President, has any of your freedom or your rights been restricted? In what situation, when we are not in a pandemic emergency, but are we in an emergency state that solves how actively our captains can help refugees? And when you see the debate that some fellow Members come here with, and I don't want to mention them anymore, it really makes sense to experience this here again in a month, if we can certainly understand that the refugee crisis and solutions to help refugees at this point go beyond 30 days? And we don't ask for six months, a year or anything like that. Parliament's control is still maintained, parliamentary control remains maintained, whether today we extend the emergency by 30 days, or by 56 or what it is based on. You can have any decision you might feel affected by your rights and freedoms reviewed by the court. I don't know that anyone would have done that in the last 30 days. So what I'm asking is, do we really want to do the same thing here in a month instead of focusing on what you're calling for? Let's deal with material matters, copyright law, law on pedagogical workers, building law, gracious summer and so on. So these are things that any person of justice, a citizen of the Czech Republic, can possibly understand. But I'm really saying, remember the difference between the emergency situation of the pandemic and the emergency situation that we're dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová and the rapporteur, he is then interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm gonna respond to my previous speaker here again. That's a matter of fact, we're having a cultivated, legitimate debate here, and I appreciate that very much, that's the way it should be. It's already on Twitter Czech Television, ČT24, now you can look. They actually have a tweet there, and now it's jumping at me about the conclusions of a permanent commission. You know, Mr President, through Madam Vice-President, let us not compare the two crisis situations at all. I can say that Covid was an invisible enemy, here we have a clearly defined group of unfortunate people. But let's not compare that at all. You're right, there were a number of restrictions, which doesn't mean there couldn't be restrictions. You say: how has this limited you, through Madam Vice-President Nacher? That doesn't mean that, and so does the Permanent Senate Commission, says it doesn't mean that there can't be restrictions. There's gonna be a whole lot of public contracts. I don't push anybody, I don't make anybody look bad. I'm not doing anything like this, I'm just saying: come back here in 30 days and present the Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, so-called accounts, tell us what situation we are in, tell us what needs to be done, what is simply... It's not like... You say it weighs, but that's our job, through the Vice-President, Mr President, that's our job, and it doesn't matter if you're in the government, if you're in those benches. It's not a burden. This is a democratic debate, this is parliamentary control. And it's starting to dominate the voice that it's crossing. And we don't want to go to court. We don't want to sue you. We know this country needs an emergency. Take it for 30 days, you'll get it constitutionally by the majority. It is certainly a calming report, it will be a calming report, and do not discuss these controversial debates where we basically have such a strong voice of Senate experts. The Senate Commission will inform the plenary, inform the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and it will be very clear. So let's get our brains together, let's act practically. You can see that we're again handing out a helping hand. Again. And let's vote together for 30 days, and after 30 days, come back and defend yourself. I'm telling you honestly for us, maybe we'll raise your hand again. Just don't do it. I know you have a hundred and eighty that we were a minority government, but that's not an argument. That's not an argument for me. I heard it on Sunday on the debate programme by the President of the Chamber of Deputies: yes, we have the advantage of having a majority. Yes, it certainly is an advantage in promoting the political agenda, that is without a doubt, and it is simply something that allows you to promote the political programme, but at the moment it is not an advantage. On the contrary, at the moment, there is an advantage that you would have a constitutional majority and that you would have the support of the strongest opposition club. That's an argument like thunder, and I don't understand that you're rejecting him with the argument that we're having a debate here... We have to lead them. We must guide them, and you must be able to defend your next course of action before the Chamber of Deputies. That's all. I think it makes complete sense to me, and I don't understand why you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Madam President. And now the rapporteur will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. I'll go back to that one last time and explain. Indeed, there has never been an application for more than 30 days. The resolution of 27 October actually demanded that this continue on 3 December, but the previous emergency would end on 4 November, so it would be another 30 days. It's just the resolution that the government did a week in advance, so it seems like it's longer. So much to explain from the files I have here. The essence is somewhere else. I'll answer my colleague. Excellent by your means, how my rights are restricted. Well, not for the moment, but we've also agreed here in the last term, the emergency is some kind of legal framework in which some things happen. Sometimes it was so much that it couldn't travel between the counties, sometimes we could tell it was just by wearing drapes. And I'm talking about this situation where the measure was actually purely that it was drapes, but everything was already open, so actually the argument that you made here can be turned in a mirror. You weren't limited to those rights either, even though the emergency situation as a legal framework was necessary to continue, and you didn't support it. That means, let's think of it as a legal framework, and we say: prolong it, suggest it by 30 days, as has been suggested so far. As I said, the average length of emergency in the last two years is less than 22 days, and I think in 30 days the government will come back here, the ministers will come in, say some other plan, medium-term, long-term, in those areas I was talking about, I will not repeat it again. But it seems fair to me than to put two months here in contrast with how it went last year and last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Now, with priority rights, President Marek Benda has signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u42	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it a bit necessary to have an endless debate here on how to interpret the constitution and constitutional practices. In the end, the Constitutional Court will eventually have to interpret it, and someone can contact it. I believe that the interpretation that is elected here is also in the theoretical part of minority. I'm not saying there aren't constitutional lawyers who lean on him for 30 days. In my opinion, there is no way in which the Constitution is based. I have here an opinion, which was given to me a moment ago by the Minister for Legislation, who had to leave, Mr Šalomoun, where government legislation clearly states: it is possible to extend by more than 30 days. And I really don't want us to come here by example of the past government's practice, which was just a minority, where the emergency situation, we all know, not only did it lead to the purchases, I would probably forget it, but it led to a significant reduction in the rights of citizens and citizens upset it. When the government first came up with the need to prolong the emergency, the original thesis was three months, I heard the opposition, I say, nice members of the government, it would be wiser if we didn't go for three months. The government shortened it by more than half of the originally proposed one by the end of May, to 58 days. Now it becomes casus belli from whether it should be or not to be 30 days that are written in that constitution only in terms of government. To me it seems completely unnecessary, completely unnecessary this debate, eventually it will eventually have to be decided by the Constitutional Court, and most theoretical fronts tend to tend to the fact that this possible extension for longer time is. On the contrary, I call on the opposition that tells us: we are prepared to vote in favour of this, we think that the emergency situation is okay - so if we wanted to propose 90, you say 30, then 58 seems to me a reasonable compromise and consider whether you are able to approach it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Alena Schillerová has applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Response to the President of the ODS club, Marek Benda, through the Vice-President. Yes, the ANO movement club is ready to raise its hand for 30 days. I just want a little refill. According to the current information I have now received, the commission's resolution was adopted unanimously by all political entities, i.e. representatives of the five-wheeler, and a moment ago on the Twitter account, Senator Hraba responded with words - so I'm actually talking about coalition representatives, you can see that I'm defending myself, or I'm trying to defend your members, your political comrades: The rules must always apply, says Senator Hraba, whether it's covid or war. It is legally questionable to extend the emergency situation by more than 30 days. Constitutional lawyers and also the opinion of our Senate Constitutional Commission confirm this. brát it done. And here I come again with that heart in my hand. We're ready to raise our hand for 30 days. We know how hard it was because of the executive, hard executive experience we have, and I know that this government here doesn't have it easy either, we're ready. But please don't break the law. That's what the experts say, your political colleagues say, and they voted unanimously on that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too. No one with priority rights applies, Mr Hubert Lang is finally taking his turn for Mr Drahoslav Ryba, Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. [[Let's hear it.]] Yes, before the speech, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u46	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the government has today presented material in which it requests an extension of the emergency situation until 31 May. By the way, this is the tenth announcement of an emergency since its introduction in crisis legislation and this shows that this legislation is generally correctly set up. Now a little bit of a gag. I want to remind you that we do not only have a migration crisis, although the migration crisis is probably the most resonating at the moment, and maybe it really, or probably at the moment, is making the biggest wrinkles for us, but we also have an economic crisis, it has already been falling, a number of colleagues and colleagues have talked about how inflation is rising, how fuel has become more expensive, how energy has become more expensive. And at this point, I would like to respond to Mr Tomio Okamura, through Madam President, who said that this is the government's inability to do something about it. I'm a little worried that it shouldn't get any worse, so it's not a government strategy, because I think the government is doing it consciously, knowing that, of course, the higher the rate of inflation, the higher the price of fuel, energy, the higher taxes and tax collections are. And so, in my opinion, the government is kind of sticking to the mantra of reducing the state budget deficit, and I don't think that at this time it's time that the government really should respond to the general measures, as is happening in a number of states around us. I would also like to respond a little bit to the Home Secretary, who spoke here, and a little bit to turn it around, that we can apply his words the other way around. What you do across the board for the citizens of the Czech Republic, you also do for the Ukrajinec who live here. It's not a contradiction. At the expense of the economy, I don't want to oppress or push the mood towards the Ukrajinec, on the contrary, I think it's to support the Ukrajinec too. What you do for the citizens of the Czech Republic, you also do for the Ukrajinec who live here. And let's get back to the emergency situation. The emergency situation is indeed a legal framework that can limit human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, because it is introduced by constitutional law number 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic. And here I will heat up my soup - unlike the so-called pandemic law, which also introduces these restrictions, but in my opinion unconstitutionally. From this point of view, the emergency situation is the right instrument for solving every crisis if we already need to restrict fundamental human rights. And I am glad that no one wants to create other special laws, in this case, to deal with the migration crisis, the migration waves. In future, we could look forward to creating more and more laws for each crisis, and it is a big question of whether these laws, too, would not be unconstitutional. When dealing with covid-19, the emergency situation became an almost rude word and an instrument of bad politics. On the contrary, I would like to commend the Minister here, and I agree with him completely that there is a need to depolitize the crisis situation, in this case an emergency situation. I would like to remind you of some of the statements that have fallen here. Mr Petr Fiala, Prime Minister today, said at the 83rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on February 11, 2021 - I quote: "The emergency situation should be an extraordinary institute, which is used exceptionally, for a short period of time, and that what we are experiencing now should be treated by another law, according to other rules or in another legislative way. That's why we're talking about adapting crisis legislation. I think that's what most of us agree on. At this meeting, if we take the opportunity together to stop the emergency as the government's only response, let's just do it, let's just put an end to this and replace this one with a series of sensible measures, those for which, as I said, there is a majority here." End of quote. [[13.50 hours]] Mr Vlastimil Válek, today's Minister of Health, in February 2021 on Space X - I quote again: "The emergency situation is not working. Screw tightening is the path of Bolshevik." Then, in his view, he continued in November 2021, when he said: "The emergency is a desperate solution for people who could not handle the situation. " Well, I didn't think so then, and I don't think so now. Crisis states and their announcements - and I think so - need to be depoliticized, and where they are needed, they need to be used. Now specifically to this declared emergency situation. I have read thoroughly both Government Resolution 147 of 2 March 2022 declaring emergency status and House Document 628, which we are now discussing and in which the Government requests permission to extend emergency status in connection with a large-scale migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic. In my opinion, both documents are too general and the proposed measures are not sufficiently justified. It is an argument that - in another position at the time, because I was first in the House - I heard here from the government, the last one, also in the extension of crisis situations. But I think it needs to be said today. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a few questions. For example, for what reason is the restriction in § 5 (a) between possible restrictions. (f) Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management and amending certain laws, i.e. restricting the right to strike? I am very interested in the reasons for this restriction. So I can't imagine a situation where we need it and use it. I know it's not, it's the law, it's limited, it's just an option. But why the possibility is there in those measures, I really don't know. Furthermore, I would like to know - and now I am quite frank, because I do not know - why the Government of the Czech Republic addressed in its resolution 207 of 16 March 2022 on the allocation of free accommodation capacities in regions, the imposition of this obligation pursuant to § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Act No. 240/2000 Coll. and did not use the form of adoption of crisis measures pursuant to § 5 or 6, Act No. 240/2000 Coll., as it does in all other cases. Why is the one there a little different? Is there a special reason? I don't know. The last point concerns the promised strategy. I would really like it if we had a resort strategy here as soon as possible, a medium-term strategy, but also a long-term strategy to know what we're going to do next. I know the first 30 days, I know from practice, it's always a little chaos. That's just the way it is. When it's a situation that we've never gotten into, it's quite logical that there's a degree of chaos in the first few days. But then we need to set up a strategy to know where we're going in that medium-term and long-term vision. I want to talk about the length of the extension of this emergency. I took the job and read again and listened to the Steno Protocols from the previous House of Deputies meetings, and I would like to remind you of at least some of the speeches during the extension of the previous emergency situation. I quote from the Chamber of Deputies meeting of the 43rd meeting on 7 April 2020. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan said at the time: We ask whether the emergency situation is really an institution that must be extended indefinitely. Yes, as mayors and independents, we are able to support this compromise proposal by 30 April. But at the same time we say: we are willing to meet here every ten days, every fourteen days, and always listen to the government's opinion, how the situation has shifted, how the government and experts are looking at the need to keep this situation running for weeks, hopefully not months. We need that information, and we need to see that it's a clear set of criteria. Finally, let me say that the emergency situation - I keep quoting - as a special regime we should not extend for more than some 14 days, in this case 18 days. We should still consider where this decisive time is ending so that we can apply laws that are common to the functioning of the state, such as the Public Health Act, according to which most of the measures introduced are still taking place. The emergency is a state of emergency, and I ask the government to consider it in this context. At the same meeting, Mrs Pekarová Adamcová, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies today - I quote: We are willing to support the extension of the emergency situation for a very long time, for which we certainly do not consider one month, but we are able to support, if answered, an extension of 14 days or until 30 April. [[Adam.]] [[The President]] But I don't think it's necessary to give longer time at this point. We're willing to meet again anytime and decide again. By the way, we have a proper meeting called, so it is possible to place such a point on it without a problem and it is not necessary to extend up to 30 days at this time. However, a number of questions need to be answered. Vít Kaňkovský - I quote: We are ready to return at any time to the question of extending the emergency situation, but we believe that the risks associated with the duration of the emergency situation must also be perceived. We have supported the use of the Emergency Institute since 12 May and have supported the vast majority of the preventive measures put in place by the government. In this we have no greater criticism. But I don't see the reason at this point, and neither do my colleagues, so that we... have a chance to meet again in 14 days, based on new data on the emergency issue, and if necessary, the KDU-ČSL Club is ready to renegotiate and possibly support further extension. But there's no reason for us to do this right now, at this point, because every day of the extension of the emergency situation is a major intervention in a democratically functioning society. So once again, the KDU-ČSL club wants to work with the government and cooperate with the government in dealing with the coronavirus crisis and we are ready to continue to do so. However, we think that it is much better to prolong the emergency situation gradually if the situation so requires, than to approve some Bianko check today, which I certainly do not think the government would take advantage of in any way, but every day the emergency situation that will not occur is a win for the Czech Republic. - End of quote. Of course I could continue. I don't want to delay the House meeting. I also think that since we do not know how the conflict in Ukraine and the related migration crisis and the return of Ukrajinec to Ukraine will develop, there is no reason to give a longer blank cheque to the government. And I'll be more generous than you. I think the right time is at least one month. Therefore, I believe that the period of extension of the emergency notice should not exceed 30 days, and then, of course, there is nothing to prevent it from reuniting, assessing the measures and possibly extending the emergency situation again. I hope and firmly believe that in such a short period of several months, all those who have spoken in this way in the House and now sit here that their views have not changed enough to speak in the opposite way. That is why I am asking them to remain consistent in their opinions. I must say, I am new to the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, perhaps I imagined working in the Chamber of Deputies a little differently. I was a little surprised by the atmosphere that ruled and ruled here, which is why I felt very sensitive about the fact that the entire Chamber of Deputies managed to agree at its meeting at least on the state in Ukraine, about the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, about the fact that it is - and I like Ukrajinec, I have a number of friends - that the Ukrajinec must be helped. And I would very much like to see a consensus on this issue today, at least between the coalition and the ANO movement, allowing me to vote for a 30-day extension of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Hubert Lang is now signed in, Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u48	Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government - I see only Vice-President of the Government of Minister Rakušan. I'm glad because we're gonna be touching the security field. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment today on the subject of the matter that we are discussing today, and this is a request for consent to an extension of the emergency situation in relation to a large-scale migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic. I have studied the government resolution that is being presented to us to either agree to an extension of the emergency situation or not. Although a lot of things have already been said here, of course, because I didn't arrive until two o'clock in the afternoon and I've already been started in blocks for about three hours, so maybe I'll repeat some things here again. [[14.00 hours]] The Government of the Czech Republic requests pursuant to Article 2 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on expressing its consent to the extension of the period for which it was declared in the Czech Republic by resolution of 2 March 2022 No. 147 declared in the Collection of Laws emergency state due to the need to respond to a large-scale migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic. The government is asking us to extend until 31 May 2022. These are the 58 days. I will get to that later, even though it has been mentioned many times by our colleagues. The emergence and description of the crisis situation. On 24 February 2022, a completely unprecedented thing happened, when the Russian Federation attacked actually its own state of Ukraine, there was a conflict of war that brought with it all the other things that we are discussing here. I think it has been said here by our President of the club, by colleagues, since we were discussing the Lex Ukraine here, since we were discussing some of the other measures that the government has asked us to take. We clearly do not support the aggression of the Russian Federation. We clearly stood up for Ukraine. In fact, we support all the government's actions, we support the efforts to help women, children, as the Minister of the Interior often speaks, who comes in particular from the territory of Ukraine. We know it's a huge number of people. It's really unprecedented. It is a situation where according to simkaret there are about 300,000 Ukrajinec in our territory. From that, even based on my interpellings, I got answers. Some of them made me more satisfied, some less last Thursday, when we intersected the Home Secretary. I'll get to that, too. Cirka 230,000 temporary protection visas pursuant to Act No. 65/2022 Sb., which we have approved here, or lex Ukraine, has already been registered. The numbers are constantly rising, although the wave has fallen a little bit lately, but more and more refugees are still coming, and it has far exceeded all the values that have been set for a large-scale migration wave for a country corresponding to the size of the Czech Republic. All the plans came to their own because no one assumed that such a tragic situation would occur in Europe in the 21st century and that it would have to be dealt with. I have also said here that I do not envy the current Home Secretary's situation at the beginning of his term. And I agree with many things as a member of the Security Committee and with the measures taken. The seriousness of the overall situation is also confirmed by the fact that for the first time in 20 years of existence the Council of Europe (?) It noted that there was a mass influx of displaced persons and, in its essence, it has somehow started to run Council Directive 2001/55/EC. On this basis, lex Ukraine was subsequently accepted. Last week I asked the Interior Minister about some of the questions I was interested in and interested in our voters, regarding the area of internal security, when I asked, for example, the question of released prisoners who were promised that they could fight on the territory of Ukraine on the basis of their release. Whether there are any lists that the Czech Republic could possibly receive and they would be available at registration points. I didn't get an answer to that question. I got the answer to the question how many of the total number of incoming and registered foreigners or citizens of Ukraine and possibly foreigners with permanent residence in the territory of Ukraine are men. That's what I got my answer for. It's 24 118 registered men's response date. I suspect the Minister said he wouldn't give him a conscience to send these men back to Ukraine to fight, even though Ukraine has a gate duty and those men should fight in some way, that they are journalists, that they are wounded soldiers and so on. Well, 24 118, I'm not entirely convinced. Our experience from the registration points, how we get them from the cops, and we see it, I'm from the Plzeň Region, so on the weekend I saw some journalists and those wounded soldiers drinking vodka in the Pilsen Parks and boiling pots of goulash. So it's not exactly black and white. The government says: The nature of the current crisis, which has been triggered by a large-scale migration wave, is aimed at making the government's institutions' activities more effective. That's why he's actually asking us to extend the emergency. Therefore, the first government crisis of the Czech Republic was not affected by the first 30 days, as the government declared. You might say I wouldn't have a hard time identifying myself here. But a little further in the material on page 3 is already being said: the government is fully aware that crisis measures are not a standard instrument of governance, but an instrument of exceptional and temporary, but at the same time the only instrument that can respond to the relevant challenges in the order of hours. I don't have a problem with that again. On page 4, at the bottom, it is said that the crisis measures taken so far by the government have only been used as part of these authorisations. However, it cannot be excluded, and this is an interesting phrase that the further development of the situation will create a need for one of these measures to a limited extent. At the same time, the authorities may issue their emergency measures on the basis of this list. And as my previous speaker, Mr Ryba, mentioned here, in the context of the emergency situation and its extension, when the government wants to obtain from us another 58 days as a blank check, it is necessary to say that it may occur - it has not yet occurred, but the government has not ruled it out in this material either - to limit ownership and exploitation rights of legal and natural persons to property, to restrict freedom of movement and residence in a defined area, to restrict business activity, to limit the right to strike, as has already been mentioned here. Then I also noted: take measures to protect national borders, to stay foreigners or stateless persons, or order a ban on entry, residence, movement of persons in defined places or territories. There are about 12 of these more fundamental things mentioned there. So I'm already seeing a certain danger, a certain bianca check that we're going to give to the government. Czech citizens have not yet touched it, but it can be touched. When we look at the justification for extending the emergency situation, the government says in the material: Despite the fact that after the adoption of three special laws, these are the House prints 170, 172, 182 lex Ukraine - one concerned safety, one concerned health insurance, one concerned matters of education - the importance of crisis measures has decreased, but it is still the necessary measures. At the same time, it is the only instrument that could be adequately addressed before a period of approximately ten days when another necessary law could be adopted in a state of legislative emergency. I have a note here that, in fact, the government is saying that there is another alternative than an emergency where, in a state of legislative emergency, we would have to take individual partial measures and declare some laws, which I understand is not in conformity with the government, and that is why it is better for them to adopt and prolong the emergency situation. If the emergency situation had not been prolonged, says the government further, certain processes associated would have ceased to work. And here is basically the reason why we want to prolong the emergency situation by the government: We would no longer operate emergency accommodation for refugees carried out through the regional assistance centers to help Ukraine. It would not be possible to buy operational resources to ensure the basic needs of refugees and to provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine. There would be a slowdown in the overall process that is linked to the use of funds from the chapter of the General Treasury, the reserve items, the resolution of crisis situations, their prevention and removal of consequences. Last but not least, the emergency situation cannot continue in terms of the use of state material reserves for the resolution of the migration crisis. The last party speaks: The emergency situation allows more flexible and faster coordination of action leading to crisis management. In particular, there is coordination of all forms of assistance to those fleeing Russia's aggression in Ukraine, including their rapid involvement in full life in the Czech Republic. This coordination is essential in order to ensure some basic and dignified living conditions. We agree with everything. With everything that's been said here, we don't really have a problem. The Government of the Czech Republic has assessed that the conditions for declaring an emergency are still fulfilled. In view of the above, and in particular the need to ensure accommodation capacities, it therefore asks the Chamber of Deputies to extend the duration of the emergency situation. And here I actually come to see why we, as the YES movement, don't want 58 days, but we only want 30 days. [[14.10 hours]] She's basically the government here answering her own questions. To the time to be extended, the government itself says: At the moment it is impossible to anticipate when and with what result the conflict in Ukraine will end or what part of the population of Ukraine and how quickly it will begin to leave the territory of the Czech Republic. EU Council decisions and three specially adopted laws, see lex Ukraine, are currently counting on a period of time protection for at least one year. It's for one year for those runaways with the possibility of a possible further extension. And here is why I also ask: Is there anything wrong with the implementation of consistent control of the government and, in particular, of the government's actions by Parliament, as constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, in Art. Whereas: 2? It's been mentioned here several times, I won't read it, I had the place ready. Speaking of 30 days? I didn't understand how it was said here by any of the previous speakers that arguments were raised enough for 58 days. Why not 57 or 59 or 67 when we're pulling that number? I believe that the 30 days are such a standard length, and for 30 days the YES movement has no problem raising your hand, as has been said here again by the President of our club. The government would gain a beautiful constitutional majority, conformal (?), could say yes, the whole state supports, the political scene supports helping Ukrajinec, Ukraine, and meet here in 30 days. The situation can change in the listed things, as I said, there may be another influx of refugees, the finance minister can come in and ask for other financial cash, the Home Secretary can come in and say: I'm late, or I don't have any options, I need help with something - and after 30 days. Why after 58 days? That means that's my question, too. So I can't raise my hand for 58 days, I have no problem raising my hand for 30 days. And all the way to the end. I was also not in the Chamber of Deputies during the previous parliamentary term, and I was just watching this crazy massage on camera, which the current government coalition and the former opposition massaged our government, Prime Minister Babiš, at the time of the covideo. Some say it's incompatible things, it's completely different. Now we have an enemy that we have clearly identified, it's the Russian Federation that fights in Ukraine, we used to have a clearly unknown enemy who massacred our people here, a huge number of people died. I've heard a few numbers here, how many meetings have been requested to extend the emergency situation, from my count, as I have prepared the material, it's been at ten meetings. And please, colleagues, it was a pretty clean time of 61.5 hours. I will not entertain the fact that, before the end of the parliamentary term, it was used purely pragmatically by the current government coalition to dehonestrate the government of Mr Babiš at the time. It was preparation, artillery preparation for the autumn House elections, you saw something in it that would help you raise your preferences, and so unfortunately you acted like one. We're trying to be pragmatic here, offering you open arms, offering you 30 days without any emotions. We don't have to drag landmanshaft and other screams that I've been waiting here for three hours to get off, but please, let's be rational. Let's meet here in 30 days, and we can continue to talk about these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u49	I thank the honourable Member. I have taken over the management of the meeting, all health, and another duly signed-up Member, Jiří Mašek, may approach the speaker's counter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the extension of the emergency situation and, first of all, I would like to reiterate what the emergency situation is, in fact, so that we all are well aware of this. It is a crisis that is declared in natural disasters, environmental and industrial accidents or other accidents and situations where human lives, health, property values, or internal order and safety are significantly threatened. The question would sound as follows, of course, to the Home Secretary: what is at risk now? It is true that the creators of this legislation, which falls within 1998 and 2000 respectively, could not count on this, with the migration wave, and therefore I nor the answer whether lives are at risk - it would probably be said that not - if health is at risk - either, although I will speak there - whether property values are at risk - immediately - and internal order and security - are not. Yet the migration wave is such a phenomenon that I understand that the government is asking for this emergency. The emergency situation is otherwise declared by the government under Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, and may restrict the rights of persons according to the definition in Section 5 of Act No. 242/2000 Coll., on crisis management. And they're not small limits. The right to the integrity of a person or residence, the right to property ownership and use, freedom of movement, freedom of residence, the right to engage in business activities or the right to strike may be restricted. It is therefore a very strong instrument and it is understandable that it should be under parliamentary control. By the way, pursuant to Article 10 of Law No. 240 on crisis management sets out two ministries directly the tasks they have to do in this state. And it's pretty much what's happening these days. It is for the Ministry of the Interior that the Ministry keeps a central record of the residence of persons, residents and temporary changes in the registration of persons, which is very important today, for example, in relation to the registration centres, and that is where I can get to the quality of the work carried out there and whether the registration should not be a little more sophisticated. Furthermore, according to this section, the Ministry of the Interior carries out a check on the readiness of other ministries to address the crisis situation or the crisis situation. And here I want to very much believe that the Ministry of the Interior is doing this and that there is inter-ministerial cooperation and that the preparation of the migration plan that we have repeatedly discussed here is well coordinated by the Ministry of the Interior and that what the government, as I firmly believe, will present to us in a few days that will indeed be a set of essays for individual ministries, but a completely conceptual material that will have the same structure on all ministries. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Interior unites procedures in crisis management. The Ministry of Health, which should ensure the purchase and distribution of medicinal products according to special regulations, should also coordinate - there it is meant for the acute conditions - the activities of emergency services, acute bed facilities, urgent income and specialized centres, and at the same time the Ministry should decide on the extent of care provided. I just remind you that at present the Ministry has not decided on any restrictions and for both our citizens and, of course, for the runners that we registered in the Czech Republic, the full extent of health services provided applies, and that is a good thing. When I said I was going to talk about health care, I'm not going to forgive the status of the health department, and I'm going to point out that our activities or the activities of our minority government have been affected by two years of covid, so what we had prepared in the health department has been greatly affected by the covideo crisis, but I will still allow you to be held back by telling you what happened here. In the next omicron wave, we passed on stable, financially and, after a long time, staffed health care. Let me just remind you that between 2017 and 2021, the supply of funds to health care increased overall from 322 billion to 550 billion, an average of 46 billion for each year of Babišův's government. Let me just point out that between 2010 and 2016, this increase in funding to health care was 2.5 billion. We are often given a toss where Babišův's government sent money. So, folks, here's your answer. Mostly to health care. [[14.20 hours]] It also happened that health insurance revenues doubled from 200 billion to 400 billion between 2018 and 2021, and that money remained in reserve funds. And your current government is counting on it, and at the moment, even though it cut the health department budgetly, it relies on the reserves of health insurance companies to somehow bridge it. So it's not just that in the budget, 20 billion less for health care, but at the same time, to actually get those insurance companies to the bottom in terms of reserves. And the question is, isn't there another target behind it, because the VZP will survive, but there are insurance companies that aren't quite so good and could also disappear. And if it went uncoordinated, it would cost this company quite a lot of money. Other things that have succeeded are that health has become transparent over a long period of time, as well as in terms of purchasing and managing. Furthermore, the successful conciliation procedure, which is an agreement between providers and payers, has been successful repeatedly, four times in a row. It's unprecedented. The negotiated procedure was always dragged and there were often failures under past governments. As I said before, the reserves remain in the health insurance accounts. Health care workers' salaries were increased by 6 percent, to the extent that in 2021 the doctor had 2.7 times the average salary in the Republic and it was about 100,000 a month, of course with services, I do not deny it. And the middle medical staff had 1.6 times the average salary, and even with the services it was 58,000 crowns. We've managed to stabilize the staff. The sisters started coming back. The number of students in medical faculties increased by 15 percent. There's a program going on. Study Health. The interest in health has increased significantly. The Act on Electronic Communications in Health has been adopted. I will mention eRecipe, Smart Quarantine, eRouse, etečka, eInoculation, simply electronization of health care, digitalization of health care has shifted significantly under our government. The availability of innovative medicines, including, by the way, the payment of medical cannabis, which is now covered by 90 percent, has increased significantly. There are high quality medical supplies. That's a good thing too. And we pushed through the coalition with the opposition. We discussed this on the Health Committees. And I saw the cooperation in the last parliamentary term very well. Patients were involved in health management decision-making processes. Quality, efficiency, prevention, office time, new performances, support for regional availability of practitioners, dentists, pharmacies - these are not phrases, these are the facts that have occurred, and the situation has improved significantly. We've also put in a cancer program. By the way, as of 1 January 2022, a general screening for lung cancer has begun. The reform of primary care seems to be a phrase, but what has succeeded, and it has been to transfer more weight and more work on practices, but also more volume in decision-making, possibility of transcription and so on, is also the right way. We managed to adopt the concept of urgent care and start building 80 urgent income in former district hospitals, including emergency rooms located there. European funding, co-financing, has succeeded in this. So these are the things that are amazing. Home care managed to increase payments from 2 billion to 4 billion, i.e. home care shifted significantly. Again, the prices of petrol and diesel have been a little wobbly wobbly with it, and I've heard from health care providers that they might have to regulate the care in some way for these reasons. So it's the donkey bridge again that we should really do something about this costing. Palliative care has shifted. The air rescue contract for the next eight years, on which one billion were saved, managed to obtain services of greater scope and better coverage of the Czech Republic with 24-hour stations, or helicopters that can fly even at night. Compensation for the damage caused by vaccination has been enforced. In summary, we were handing over health care in December last year really consolidated. The population of 18+ was 75 percent inoculated, the total population vaccination was 63 percent, and in humans over 80 years it was over 90 percent. Because we were aware of... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Thank you for the gesture, but I'm getting to the point. Since we have witnessed the biggest problem, and here we may be able to make use of the emergency situation, Mr. Colleague, to the emergency situation in the health sector and perhaps in the autumn of this year, and since we have seen that the biggest problem is the population of the elderly and vulnerable patients, we have adopted a mandatory vaccination decree for the elderly and selected groups of the population. And we thought that your government would respond to that, and that it would continue to vaccinate the elderly. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. First of all, your government has refused to use the emergency to solve the covid crisis. Definitely. You wanted to replace him with a pandemic law, which basically on the day he was approved here, so the government responded so that most of the measures on the same day began to interfere with the fact that after the unnecessary martéry that we passed here, we adopted the pandemic law, which is limited by November of this year. That's where its validity ends. And if - and now it's showing up - we'd like to make use of something, it turns out he'd have that emergency situation again, the damn emergency situation that you didn't want in relation to the pandemic. You didn't want him at the time of hundreds of people dying every day, so we moved the emergency situation here after weeks. Then you couldn't confirm it at all. It was only thanks to your captains that they succeeded afterwards. So these are just things that need to be recalled. And it needs to be said that the same people, or most of you sitting here, behaved and expressed an emergency situation, as previous speaker Ryba, through Madam President, mentioned, quoted you here too, so now you are beginning to behave completely differently and you want an emergency. And you want it under conditions far - from far - from threatening citizens of the Czech Republic, such as the pandemic. You basically refused to take advantage of the emergency situation, and I'll remind you of that, for example, in the introduction of field testing. That would've been a great place to go. You needed it or we needed it because we all needed it, 11 million antigen tests for a week or so. If you accepted the emergency situation and you could proceed without a tender, but you had to buy what you declared before the elections, you wanted to buy only the best quality, the best tests, you blamed us for not having quality, then you had to buy miserable tests without an emergency state after 14 crowns plus you were still bragging about it, tests that had 40% false positivity, tests for which people went into quarantine for nothing, then it turned out that it was unnecessary, while you didn't run control PCR tests at the time. Basically, there's been a lot of damage and illogicality. I just want to say that you could use an emergency there, you could've done what you promised before the election. But you just didn't do it because you just decided that the word "emergency" or the combination of two words "emergency" just deleted from the legislation. And it doesn't really work. And it's obvious that the emergency is needed. So you have enforced a pandemic law that I will no longer criticize. And I think the citizens have drawn a picture of it, and they know what its need and usefulness is, which is limited to zero. [[14.30 hours]] Next, you've practically stopped the vaccination. This may be related to the emergency situation again, because I would hate to have to apply the emergency situation precisely because of medical issues. But it can happen. Because by moving forward in vaccinations in those hundred plus a few days by less than 2 percent, and you couldn't even inoculate the elderly... And I'll remind you of one thing. Together with my colleagues working with the Health Committee in the past period, we had a resolution from June by the Health Committee, where we called on the Government of Andrej Babiš to intensify the vaccination of seniors in cooperation with the authorities. This happened, they formed vaccination teams, significantly increased vaccination of seniors, and by the way, this was also the interest of the current Minister of Válek. He also promoted the accent on the vaccination of seniors. And none of that happened. And we're having a pretty big problem here, because we still have about 300,000 unscathed seniors. And by doing so, I would like to call on the government to pay attention to it, and not just declare it. So here are the problems that somehow couldn't be solved. What else do I have to remind you of? Here we all face today that covid is finished for the Czech Republic. I remind you, it's not over. Our neighbors, like us, continue to pay great attention to him. And maybe just one number. During your reign, 4,200 people died of covid, which is about 40 people a day on average since you took over the government. It's quite a lot, because when you count it by the time of Andrej Babiš's reign in the covid period, we get in the conversion to a relatively similar number. So there's a lot of deaths, these deaths are useless because they're interfering with the 65+ category of seniors who were supposed to be vaccinated, and it didn't happen. And it's a big problem. And if you really look at it and you realize that we're now at a time when we've already been vaccinated, a lot of people already have a third dose, so if we were at the time when the most people were dying, at a time when we weren't vaccinated, because the vaccination started last January, we'd just be on incredibly bad numbers right now. And for me, as a doctor, the wrong numbers are the 30 dead a day, who are still dead on covid. So I'm just pointing out here -- and it has to do with the emergency situation -- that the pandemic law in the fall is probably not enough, that there's a lot of probability of another mutation coming, that I don't see the Ministry doing anything in this spirit, is developing some kind of preparation. Or maybe he's doing it, but he doesn't inform the professional public or the lay public about it at all. Now, to get back to those refugees, the refugee crisis. It is necessary to be aware, and I think that the Ministry is aware of this, but it claims that it will manage perfectly well - it is the fact that the vaccination of Ukrajinec against covid is about 34 percent, there is a 15-fold higher incidence of tuberculosis, there is a many-fold higher incidence of HIV, there is a lower vaccination of children. And now I'm getting into the issue of taking these kids to kindergartens, schools, and this issue. Because the vaccination, and that's gonna be a big task for this government, probably in a form of emergency, here I'd see it as meaningful for the health department, to buy vaccines, or the medicines needed, I think it's gonna be necessary. And there's an undeniable threat here, and that's an overload of some expertise. We see this especially with pediatricians, where on average for one pediatrician it is an increase of about 75 children per ambulance, and they are already on the edge today. And, of course, it's not just a question of the general calculation, because the average of 75 may not seem terrible, but he may be terrifying in the Central Bohemia Region or the capital of Prague and so on, where the concentration of migrants is high. So there's a whole series of problems here. And all of this in the current situation, when the health budget has lost 20 billion, when it has lost - so far - 300,000 state insured people, which you want to spend a few hundred crowns less on since July than it is now. And yet you're all smiling, especially Professor Válek, and he says that we can do all of this, that everyone gets care to the exact same extent, that the waiting times will not extend. And it's a question of the availability of innovative drugs, the more expensive aids and the like that I've declared before for our achievements. So it just doesn't seem to meet much logically. And I wish the D.O.D. could handle it, but Mr. Stanjura's gonna have to let go of his hair. There will have to be a budget change, and the money will have to be returned to health. Now, if I don't drag it too far, I'm gonna go to one more thing, and that's for security. There has been quite a lot said here, however, I would like to remind you that at the meeting of the Security Committee 10. 3. which is not so long, but it is not two days ago again, it has been almost three weeks, we have called on the Government by resolution to present it by 31. 3. a comprehensive migration plan developed into individual departments. On the committee was the Minister of Interior Rakušan and asked for that term himself. He literally said that he would make it by March 31st, that he was unable to do it earlier, that he would have been able to present a plan of the Ministry of the Interior, but if we want a comprehensive comprehensive plan in some stages, with some structure and from all resorts, so that it should be by 31st. 3. Which is Thursday this week. I assume that the Deputy Prime Minister will present us with this comprehensive plan, and I am happy to believe that since there are so few ministers, they are probably already finalizing the plan in some way. So I'd like to ask you this. At the same time, I join in what my colleagues have said, it is also my opinion that I will vote here for a maximum of 30 days. I don't want to repeat how you've trained us in the past, how you've dragged us in weeks, or not at all, but those 30 days seem appropriate to me. Mrs. Adamová Pekarová was quoted here saying there's no problem meeting her. We'd love to meet, too. We'll be there in 30 days. But the emergency is so powerful a means to control it in some way. And when I looked at the reasons you put as government for applying the emergency to the migration crisis, I'm going to pull out two reasons, the others here were said to work the KACPU so that the police of the Czech Republic could handle things so that refugees could be redistributed between regions. I might even argue there, there might not even be an emergency. But there are some remarks that are important, and it is one exception to public procurement, it is a question of the very purchases in the health sector, but it may also be a question of purchases of weapons or needs for the Army of the Czech Republic. Here I would quote Mrs Černochová from the press: "The Czech Republic is the case that if we find quickly available technology on the market that corresponds to our strategic documents, we will not hesitate to propose to the government a change of budget." So that's another thing where it's possible to apply an emergency. Here I would just be very happy if we were to buy military material or military technology now, so that it would really be with our military development strategy and to buy material that we want to strengthen our army and improve its fighting capacity and the readiness to defend ourselves against assault by some sort of aggressor. So that's another thing. So I understand that the exception to public procurement is appropriate. [[14.40 hours]] Then it is probably also a need for measures and compensation from the reserve for dealing with crisis situations in order to help municipalities and regions. I would be very happy to be here, because the regions and municipalities have it on their shoulders, they deal with it, they deal with it very well and they have to be thanked for it, but they will also have to be sent some money. And the resources need to be opened somehow. So that's for me. And once again, to conclude: support for the extension of emergency conditions, yes, but no more than 30 days. Finally, I would like to say to you that I have prepared a three-point accompanying resolution, which I would like to apply to again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. And your contribution called for an application with priority rights. I will just point out that we are acting in accordance with § 109m, so we are in one debate and cannot apply factually either. So that's just how you want to read the resolution. And now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u52	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that, unfortunately, my honored previous speaker's speech is an accurate example of why the government has asked for 58 days and not 30 days. You've been talking for about 20 minutes, and there were about two or three of them to this emergency. The rest was the praise of the government for how beautifully the previous governments managed the coronavirus crisis, calculating everything. I'm surprised the Vice-President doesn't bring you to order, but I understand her situation. Because it's really not that simple in this House. But if this is how the debates are going to go down, then let's not be surprised - if they absolutely don't talk to the point, they absolutely don't talk to the point - so let's not be surprised that the government itself comes up with the fact that it could be 58 days that I don't see above the line. I haven't been upset here yet because we're used to Mr. Okamura, and most of the rest of the others have been trying to stick to the subject that was before us. This speech was not really about the subject before us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u53	With priority rights, she wants to respond to President Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u54	Then I will respond to President Benda. I don't think so at all. I listened very carefully to my government colleague's speech, he was talking about the crisis plan, whether he was ready, talking about wanting to read the resolution, talking about what the health situation would be. The point is, we don't have anyone to respond to it. That's the worst situation. But I really don't think he's talking to the point. Oh, look out for that. We had a club meeting this morning, all my colleagues, who will perform, and there are a few of them registered, so they're just about ready to get to the point of their expertise. My colleague Mašek is an expert on health care, but also on the inside, and as I felt, he talked about it. Absolutely, I would like to object completely to what has been said. So far, no one has spoken outside the box from the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u55	And this brings us back to the debate to the duly signed up, and please, Mr Karel Rais is next. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u56	Hello, Madam Vice-President of the House, Mr Vice-President of the Government, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I would still respond to the previous debate. I would quite like for the Minister of Education to be here, who is probably having a meeting, because a number of things include the contribution, questions to the Ministry, as we will see in a few moments. So personally, I am surprised that colleagues of today's government coalition, who have spoken with negative remarks about the length of emergency in the covid period, without scruples, require approval of an even longer emergency interval than we have asked for. If I use the terminology of today's government Garniture from the past period, then the government requires a blank check by 31 May. I personally agree with the length of the emergency, the emergency, one month, as many of my colleagues. Why? When we find out after a month that the Ministry of Education's plans and procedures and, of course, governments as a whole need to be adjusted, we have months to change. If we allow the government a longer time interval for an emergency and the government does nothing or does it wrong, the House will not be able to respond, then I consider it wrong. As far as education is concerned. Of the many vague promises made in the government's programming declaration, where there is really only one specific number, and this is an increase in the average salary of pedagogical workers - here I will quote: "We guarantee a high-quality salary assessment of pedagogical workers and keep their salaries at 130 per cent of the average gross monthly wage. We will put emphasis on maintaining a 20% share of the tariff components of the salary and their effective use." - so the question is, and I think that he's been gone for more than a quarter of a year, so I think we'd quite like to see or hear some idea of how the government intends to do it in these difficult conditions. The programme statement did not mention an increase in non-teaching workers, economic workers, administration and others - that is my traditional note - of university academic staff. Thus, the fundamental problem of today's situation, when the government demands approval to extend the emergency situation, I see in the absence of any strategy for the development of education in conditions of a large-scale migration wave. This, if the Minister were here, I'd repeat it one more time. Because I think that the lack of a strategy for the development of education in the conditions of migration waves, I really consider this to be a major deficiency. And I'm going to follow up on what my colleague here said before me. If the government by 31. 3. through Mr. Rakušan's mouth she promised to present it, so I will of course be very happy, because I think that is extremely important now. Otherwise, regarding the lack of a strategy for the development of the Ministry of Education and the fact that it is not in the government's programming statement, I have already warned that several times and I am already embarrassed to keep talking about the same thing. What we will do or will not do in terms of economic failure, when the economic crisis is influenced by the extreme increase in energy prices of essential raw materials necessary for production, or for the completion of products, where inflation is between 12 and 15 percent and so on, are all things that I think not only the House, but mainly ordinary people would very much like to hear, and maybe many of them would also stop being afraid. Or she did. Unfortunately, even for this situation, the government does not present any recipe. Moreover, we have a migration wave that has not been here in Central Europe for a very long time, and in this context it is necessary to know the government's strategy for both short-term and particularly long-term. Not only do we not know what will happen at the beginning of the next school year, when we should absorb tens of thousands of children from Ukraine into the teaching process, but we do not even know what will happen in a longer time frame. The problem of the absorption of Ukrainian children into today's already overcrowded kindergartens is on the table and the government should present its immediate solution, because this is what the situation requires. In connection with the prediction of development in education, it is also necessary to discuss the financial idea of the government. Simply put, who will pay more costs, among other things, in education, which are linked to the economic crisis and the migration wave, and for the most part still go to school. It follows that it is worth agreeing to extend the emergency situation for a period of one month but not longer. And at this time, I expect absolutely constructive strategic materials from the Minister and the Ministry of Education. I expect at least a roundtable discussion on the course of the operational strategy, which will respond not only to the deepening economic crisis, but also strongly affect the management of individual schools and universities, and which will also respond to the integration of thousands of Ukrainian children and students into secondary and university schools. [[thousands?]] Following discussion with all Stakeholders of the Education Department, the Ministry of Education should present basic options for economic development and solution of migration waves, integration of refugees. And I think one month really is enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. That was Mr Karel Rais, and now Vice-President Karel Havlíček came forward with priority rights, so make a deal. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u58	I beg you, Madam Vice-President. The Minister of Education was just here. It's been confirmed that he's coming, he's come to disappear after a while. Could I ask you, or could I ask a representative of the government coalition to come into the hall and respond to my honored colleague Professor Rais, who asked specific questions, asking here about the concept of education, how will this be dealt with, the integration of Ukrainian children? I beg you, if you could call him back to the O.R. I really do at the moment, because before my colleague, Vice-President Havlíček, who will definitely have a different topic again, I think it would deserve a response to Professor Rais. We can make a deal, can we give you five minutes? Is he here in the building? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u59	Madam President, the Minister wants to respond. Well, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u60	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister Gazdík has a business meeting with Minister Stanjura. I've been making some very detailed notes here that I'm going to give him, and I thought, and I'm also counting on that reaction of ours to come up with some sort of summary when the number of entries comes to an end. But what I can guarantee you is that my colleague Gazdík will certainly respond to the words of Professor Rais. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. I understand that this is now covered by the President, and please, Vice-President Karel Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am not going to be extremely critical today, because I think that this is an extremely sensitive and important matter, but allow me at least a few points of view. I'll be quite short. The emergency situation is an emergency without any discussion and war is an emergency, notabene's war associated with the refugee crisis is as much an extraordinary thing as it is. And like at the time of the covid, which we thought was quite extraordinary, and we advocated, even several times, an emergency situation, so here it can say nothing but that it is an emergency state. Yes, there is no other solution at the moment. For the next one. I believe that any opposition is to be tough, to be consistent, but should not be vengeful. We'd deny ourselves that. If we were to behave the way the opposition has ever behaved covidová, we would not be discussing at the moment whether there should be an emergency for 30 days or 58 days, but it would be discussed whether it should be at all. Let us remember the spring of last year, when we had 15 to 20,000 people in hospitals and when the opposition at that time put us in a state of emergency and put us in a predicament, and if it weren't for the regions then, I don't know how the situation would have turned out. We don't want to behave this way, we want to be reasonable. You know that we, as opposed to YES, have supported most of the actions against Ukraine, against the aggressor as Russia, but it is true that we are no longer on the same wavelength with the solution of refugees, not because we reject refugees, but because we realize that the situation is beginning to get into a phase where it is addressed more intuitively than conceptually, strategically, and even for this reason we cannot give up and we do not want to give up a certain degree of control. That is why we want accounts to be held in quotation marks every 30 days, and if after 30 days we see that the situation again is such that it is necessary to extend the emergency situation, we will be happy to do so. Even at the time of the greatest covid crisis, we did not dare propose an emergency for more than 30 days. That's why we consider 30 days fair. And the fact that we may be discussing a few hours here, I don't think that the emergency situation is a very special situation and we can't get used to it being a rule, so I don't think it's anything special. It's part of the coalition's work, it's part of the opposition's job to meet in the House and talk things out. And the last thing I wanted to say. Let us not forget that, even in an emergency, we can take a number of economic emergency measures, and at the moment, and here I think it is necessary to say this clearly, the government as we do not criticise it for accessing Ukraine, so unfortunately it cannot cope with the economic situation. It puts us in almost critical condition, regardless of inflation, when we are the third worst in Europe, whether in terms of energy non-support, where we are among the three worst in Europe, with regard to the projected growth of gross domestic product, where it looks like we are the worst in the middle and east of Europe, so it should be remembered that this also has to do with how refugees will be perceived, and this is logically connected with all the states that we are agreeing here today, because I cannot agree with the claim that we have to be more forthcoming with you in the context of economic policy, because we have more important things to do today. Yes, I agree that it is important today to preserve peace, or to ensure peace, to stop war, it is extremely important to support Ukraine, refugees, but if we underestimate economic problems as we underestimate them in recent weeks, this will not only turn to the government in the finals, but it will turn to refugees too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u63	Thank you for your contribution. I will also convey an apology to Mr Jiří Kobza's absence today between 15 and 19 o'clock. And the next enrollment is Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the Government's request to extend the emergency situation, particularly in relation to the area of accommodation and housing. The state of emergency started to pay in the Czech Republic on 4th March, the government announced it for 30 days and today asks us to extend it. Government approval at the time of emergency may be quite extensive. This is an acceleration of the method of administration and simplification and acceleration of individual processes in important areas such as health, education, social or registration, and many others. By agreeing to extend the emergency situation, the House leaves these powers in the hands of the government, and it is logical that we want the government to introduce us to the planned emergency measures, both within the framework of emergency conditions, but also with medium and long-term plans in all important areas. As I have already mentioned, this is about housing, health, social, education and others. But now to the area of accommodation and housing, which is clearly one of the most important areas of aid, but at the same time it is an area that has many problems and long-term problems. At present, we have a much larger number of refugees in the Czech Republic than the government, and not only the government, assumed. The possibilities of ordinary housing were almost exhausted, refugees are now accommodated in various so-called spare buildings such as gymnasiums, cultural houses, halls, exhibition grounds and so on. If I were to evaluate the initial crisis and operational solutions, it should be said that cities and municipalities were able to adapt in a very short time, found ordinary flats and managed to deal with replacement accommodation. But at present and especially in the future, we are not going to be able to cope with crisis operational management and it is essential that this is followed systematically by plans and by the determination of clear and concrete steps. The government in the area of housing has adopted a government regulation on housing allowance for the solidarity household. The amount of this allowance is CZK 12,000 as maximum. Moreover, housekeeping can look different without affecting the amount of compensation. This means that it may be one room in the basement, but also 3+1 in Prague. And most refugees head to Prague and larger cities where market rents are much higher. Private property owners who might accommodate refugees will certainly welcome this minimum compensation, but given its size, they would also need some guarantees from the state that after some time it will be able to accommodate refugees. Currently, city leaders also talk about the fact that temporary accommodation would not be a problem, but since it is currently impossible to predict for how long refugees from Ukraine will need asylum, some forms of accommodation will not be available for longer periods of time. The transition to humanitarian type accommodation, i.e. in halls, gymnasiums, as I mentioned, was also admitted by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, when he said that we are in many places in a situation where standard accommodation capacities are largely or completely exhausted. [[15.00 hours]] We must also consider many refugees finding employment here, getting a visa, their children going to school here and need accommodation for a longer period of time, or even permanent. In many cities, however, there is a problem with stable housing, a long-term problem, and housing is also a long-term problem for locals. All the more important is the debate on how to best prepare for this, how to involve the private area, how to best spread refugees in the regions, but also how to speed up the new construction as much as possible. All the more important is the development of the already mentioned medium- and long-term plan with concrete steps and measures. Since this is an area of housing, it is necessary to adopt these plans comprehensively to address the availability of housing for both Czech citizens and refugees who will need long-term accommodation. It is necessary to speed up and streamline reconstruction of buildings and especially new construction. To be inspired by the concept of housing by 2030, especially by the chapter of modern technologies and modular buildings, which are clearly the fastest construction we know, and which have recently been a very widespread form of construction in Western countries. The current situation with the refugee wave has further stressed the need to take all steps as quickly as possible to make housing available and to follow up with the actions of the previous government. This is, above all, as I have already mentioned, the use of modern technologies, but also the greatest possible use of current programmes, which have proved to be effective, which is the Construction Programme, where municipalities and cities can achieve social and affordable housing subsidies, but also the need to make the most of the use and financial strengthening of national subsidy titles aimed at strengthening the construction of nursing homes, senior housing or technical infrastructure. Finally, I, as my previous speakers, would like to sum up that I, too, am leaning towards an emergency for 30 days. And I would like to emphasise again the appeal to the government to address the situation with housing availability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, Madame. And another performer is Mr. Jan Hrnčíř, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment on why I have decided not to support the extension of the emergency situation. Firstly, I believe that the next extension, this time not by 30 days, but by two months straight, has no support in the law. And I'm not so convinced myself, it's the opinion of most lawyers, so it's an extension of the law. Secondly, I believe that the emergency situation is intended for situations that have occurred unexpectedly and need to be resolved quickly and effectively, and that is why the 30-day period is set. For these 30 days, the government has sufficient time to set the optimal solution to the problem. So why continue to prolong the emergency situation? In addition, practically all necessary measures can be taken without emergency. Third, by extending the emergency situation, and the more prolonged by such a long one, we would literally issue this government a blank check, and I completely reject that. The truth is that this government is completely clueless, and the further extension of the emergency situation is intended only to conceal its political and legislative impotence. The SPD's movement has asked this government several times to set a ceiling for the reception of refugees from Ukraine, to make clear the number that the Czech Republic is still able to handle economically and socially, and to justify it properly. Instead of a clear answer, however, the government continues to issue chaotic and contradictory statements from saying that we are ready to receive refugees in unlimited quantities, to the recent statement by the Prime Minister that the Czech Republic is probably already at the edge of its capabilities. Of course, then, without specifying where the Prime Minister sees the limit of capacity, since this 2% of the domestic population has already been overcome. There are currently more than 300,000 refugees from Ukraine in our territory and more are coming every day. I would also like to remind the government that 44 million people live in Ukraine, just to the brink of this unlimited reception. So, my dear colleagues, from the government coalition, can you please answer me? I would also like to hear a clear answer to what will happen to these people when the war in Ukraine is over. According to some statements, the government expects the vast majority of these refugees in the Czech Republic to remain. If we admit that this is the case, we can get the numbers of one million refugees after the family merge, and that is an estimate very sober, and only if from now on no more refugees from Ukraine come. Is the government really able to take care of all these refugees and, of course, first of all take care of the citizens of the Czech Republic without the Republic going bankrupt within a few months? I believe that's not the case. The SPD movement continues to repeat that it is, of course, necessary to take care of refugees before the war, but it is necessary to do so adequately, for the necessary time and after the end of the conflict in Ukraine, these people should return home. And our government should continue to realise that it is the government of the Czech Republic, and also start taking care of its own citizens, besides refugees. It is certainly commendable that the government is interested in fleeing the war, but it is absolutely reprehensible that it forgets its own citizens at the same time. I find various statements about the fact that citizens must understand that it is now and more important, or that single mothers have to wait, disgusting. Yes, the situation is serious. But this government literally hides behind the war in Ukraine and blames it on its total incompetence and laxity. Our citizens, literally decimated by volatile inflation, the incredible rise in energy prices, fuel, food, and all other goods, rightly expect the government to intervene against their begging and sometimes fall into an unsolvable situation. That, like the governments of the surrounding countries, they will take effective measures and help their citizens. Yet, they are waiting in vain. What have you done, dear government, in six months' time since the election for the citizens of the Czech Republic? How did you improve them, or at least make their lives easier? Do you even know how insane their problems are right now? Do you even care? The media are full of reports of how bad it is to live abroad and how and where anti-Russian sanctions have taken effect, but that we have volatile inflation, this is something that is somehow tactfully silent. Just as they are silent about how and when this government will finally wake up and start working for the well-being of its own people. In your opinion, the area measures are populist. In our opinion, they are absolutely necessary. Please show that you are the government of the Czech Republic and begin to act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. And the next enrollment is Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u68	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me turn your attention to the emergency situation from another point of view. At first glance, you might find it odd, but I'll start with Law No. 361/2003 Coll., which also deals with the duties of the police of our Republic. Maybe you'll wonder what it's got together? But I have served hundreds of hours when we have seen some members of the police precinct several times, because there has been a law for many years where police have actually collaborated with paramedics by bringing citizens, let's say, in a messed-up state. And I must say that, in this case, I fully understand the emergency situation, of course, and I agree with the 30-day extension completely, I have no doubt about it, but please, why do I say 30 days? It is necessary to analyse the situation continuously, possibly change it, because, of course, in an emergency, the Minister and his subordinates can deploy them where they need to be, and that is okay. Surely this institute is supposed to be there. I just want to say that we don't have endless numbers. And there are 300,000 extra people here where we want to help them, we won't talk about it, here I think we're all in agreement that there's no need to explain. But of course there is an increased intensity for these services of the Police of the Czech Republic. And I have two questions here and please think about them. Of course, I do not want to disparage the government's opinion in any way, because I understand that it is entitled to it. I just have to say that I do not agree with two months because it is a very long time and we cannot respond flexibly to what is needed. [[15.10 hours]] So not only do these cops help us and import citizens who need this at the moment, but in that case none of the leaders have any backup, he can't send anyone there, they're just on duty. On the other hand, I understand that it is necessary to deploy them in case of need of refugees or those registration sites or the like, I will not go into those details or name them exactly all, and therefore I believe that 60 days is a very long time when really no one and nothing can occur and we will not be able to respond adequately here. That's one thing I'm considering, and, of course, there's one more thing. We are aware of it, but realize that we have said that we will be constructive, and we certainly are, we are making proposals, but of course we are criticizing, that is what we are here for. But I have to say that 60 days is a gamble with these people and it's a gamble with their potential, because they, of course, their limit is finite. And the other thing I'd like to point out is that more refugees mean even more ambulance calls. That's why - I'm going to leave the Police of the Czech Republic now, but I'm going back to health, and I know that because I'm in the field every day, I work in a hospital every day, and today, before I come here, a few colleagues have told me: remember to tell it so the government knows. Maybe the government knows, maybe not, but I promised I'd say it, which is why I'm repeating it here. And the Minister can ask him to verify my words. So please, nicely, it's that even the ambulances have their limits, and we need to count on their options, human resources and others, and eventually adjust the situation. And in my opinion, a period of two months is really a time, forgive the word, but irresponsible to these people and to those medical and transport facilities, because we don't see what can happen. And as for the other things, please, I spoke to some of the refugees who live in my place of residence yesterday who, of course, tell me the situation more or less every day, so I really don't have to ask anyone and I don't have to wait for a server to write anything. They are in contact with their families in Ukraine, so the situation is really worth helping, we will not discuss this at all, of course, but I think that the emergency situation is long because I assume that over a few days, as I have talked to them, they want to be the most involved in our lives, in most cases of course, there are exceptions everywhere and there will be no talking about them, that is something else. Then we need to know all the details, which also means the utilization of schools and kindergartens, the utilization of health facilities, but also the Police of the Czech Republic. Because there is one other thing that I learned in the ministry, that - I don't know, the Minister could say that afterwards, but I do not insist on answers now, please, that is just a rhetorical question, because I assume that you know this immediately - that there may be a possibility that this police officer actually serves without a wage claim or has it on a flat-rate basis. So please also take this into account, because I think that we really need to connect both of these components here, which means health care and the Police of the Czech Republic, which is clearly helping us in these matters, and we do not have a replacement for them, or I would very much like to take this into account. I repeat once again that we consider the 30-day emergency to be necessary at the moment and, as our President has already said, certainly has the support. For two months, I consider him slightly irresponsible or perhaps a little naive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u69	That was the Member's contribution and now with priority rights, Vice-President of the Government of Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, only by your response to the colleague. I consider it necessary to say it now, because I consider it my fault that I did not say it at the outset, but I will actually keep all the other reactions to the end, as I promised. We were in the government last week dealing with the overtime of police officers, firefighters in an emergency. And because this emergency situation, for example, has much higher demands on police officers than it did on police officers - I am not talking about firefighters, but at the moment, firefighters will always take it in the Czech Republic, because they are responsible for crisis management - so the government has agreed, and I have agreed so much since the beginning with the Police Presidentia, all overtime worked in the covid, although not yet paid, are registered... sorry, in the emergency situation associated with the migration crisis are registered, all registered and all these police officers will be paid in the same way as the firefighters. And we are preparing a legislative change. Originally, we wanted to wait until the overall revision of the crisis legislation that we promised, which would not, however, be in default of overtime during the emergency period, the 150 hours, as strict as the current one. The Ministry of the Interior is already working on it, Deputy Director Vokáč has the idea, we'll let it go through the commentary process. So, first of all, we're looking for a system solution. I would like to say out loud here today: police officers and firefighters will be paid overtime for the Ukrainian refugee crisis and we are looking for a system solution that will motivate them to work with, say, a little enthusiasm and financial motivation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. In addition, it is registered with the priority right... [[Mrs Adámková is reporting for the floor.]] I'm sorry, it's not possible. You'd have to rejoin the order. It's not really possible. [[Objection in the O.R.]] He doesn't have priority rights, it's not possible. So with priority rights, the Minister of Education or the President of the Club may, but I will just point out, it is in line, because the chairman of the KDU Club is in line. It's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u72	I'll be short. Thank you. I think I know what my honored colleague, Professor Adámková, wanted to ask, at least I hope. That means he's going to... Because I know that in an emergency, members of the armed forces can't actually draw overtime, we know that. That means, you're going to change legislative in this regard, I understand that was now a question for the Minister, and it will be paid so that they will probably receive some extraordinary rewards, so I understand that, and for those you have resources. Three little questions like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u73	Yes. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. I was so rude to the microphone without the Vice-President giving me the floor, I'm sorry about that. Firstly, it is now a legislative balance sheet over options. One is indeed a legislative change, the easiest one, which will repeal the provision that 150 hours in an emergency must be done essentially for free. That's the easiest thing. It certainly has its risks, and it needs to be left to legislative commentary. Then there is some more complex change that could be applied to the issue, and we will also be allowed to go through government commentary proceedings, within the Government Legislative Council. But now, regarding the hours that have been worked, it will be in the form that we, as the Ministry of the Interior, have increased CZK 300 million to the Presidency within the European Union, if you have noticed. There was CZK 300 million directly on the Presidency, and there was another CZK 100 million as a budget wage reserve, which we will now dissolve into these very rewards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u75	Thank you and now Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u76	Good afternoon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked here questions about education. I'm sorry, I accepted the Croatian Minister of Education, but I will try to answer those questions briefly, or what the situation of the refugee crisis in education looks like, or I will answer your questions. I'm sorry, it said here that how the government wants to deal with it or what strategy it has. I am sorry, I have already introduced her in this House in connection with the approval of the law, which we call Lex Ukraine in the field of education. I clearly said at the time that we were dividing it into two parts. The first part is now in this current school year, that is to say, until June, when we are also trying to establish a second way that allows this Lex Ukraine, and these are so-called adaptation groups that we want to finance in the form of templates. The third thing that we are dealing with by June is the Czech courses for how high school students can obtain a B2 level certificate or A2 level certificate and get into mainstream universities. And then there are common Czech courses, to which everyone whose mother tongue is not Czech is already entitled under inclusion today, so in primary or secondary school he has the opportunity to obtain intervention, which is paid from inclusion up to 200 hours of teaching Czech. [[15.20 hours]] You can blame us for not preparing for September. I want to assure you that we are preparing for September. Anyway, and that's what I was saying here at this counter, you'll find it on the screen, whether the real numbers in September are half or triple, are completely different solutions. So we come, and again, I said it here at the counter, at the beginning of June, or at the end of May, we are ready, I called and was very grateful for the fact that we were able to discuss the Lex Ukraine with the opposition. The law has passed here unanimously, and I think it's been doing its job in schools for the last 14 days. I would also like to do so in the situation, in the real numbers, because me and none of us know at the moment if this war ends and in May half of those pupils will return home, in which case the interventions and the solution will be, say, minimalist, or at that time there will be 300,000 children, and in that case we will have to look for measures such as teaching in the morning and in the basic arts schools, that a branch will be established there within the capacity of the primary school or primary school class, and spatially use the premises of basic art schools, or perhaps in the morning and afternoon teaching in primary and secondary schools, all that is possible, but that depends on the number. We don't know the number now. Now, at the end of March, anything is, we are preparing, we are preparing scripts for smaller numbers and for larger ones, but we are really going to discuss it sometime at the end of May, at the beginning of June, when the preparation begins. I believe that the budgetary change we are discussing with the Ministry of Finance will come up with this, so that we are ready for September 1st. It also has to do with this, and this is already in the first phase that we are dealing with, it is also related to holiday camps and Czech courses or camps with the teaching of Czech language. Then Professor Rais here said there wasn't a word in the material about unedagogical workers. Yes, it is not, because it is the common system, after the reform of regional education funding, we have the so-called PHmax. Yesterday, the Ministry of Education launched a survey of schools, a questionnaire on how many increased numbers were, how many children were raised. The usual questioning by the Ministry of Education always takes place at the end of September and from that the next school year is developing. At this point, the numbers are increasing significantly, so we are now counting on the last March and, if there is a larger increase, there will obviously also be an increase in funds for non-teaching workers associated with this. On the other hand, it is very individual for each school. If you have two or three Ukrainian pupils in a fully unfilled class, it doesn't mean you need a new cleaning lady in that class, it's not. Capacities of school dining rooms are also not filled at 100 percent in most places, so if they add 30 pupils throughout the school, it doesn't mean you need to recruit a new cook or janitor. Next. The big problem - a strategy in the situation of migration waves - is perhaps what I have outlined now and I repeat that I am ready to discuss it with the opposition. As it will be from the beginning of the school, as the professor asked, I have also now told you what it will look like. Who will pay the following costs related to the refugee wave? This will, of course, require budgetary change sometime in the middle of the year. At present, we have calculated as the Ministry of Education the costs that are related to the three parts now, say, by August, which I was talking about, one part is increasing the number in mainstream schools, the other part is financing in the form of templates of those adaptation groups, the third part is those Czech courses, which could be up to CZK 5.2 billion, the actual numbers will be found after that inquiry, after that questionnaire, and of course we will pay only according to the facts. However, we have to have these things ready in the state budget, and that's what's happening now, that's what we're working on. As far as costs have been concerned since September, of course there must be a change in the state budget, again, I also personally prefer the change only sometime in June, July after we see the figures in real terms, how the situation will develop. Now we're a month and a few days from the beginning of the war. I find it incredibly positive that tens of thousands of Ukrainian children have been going to our schools for weeks at this rate. Yes, I'm sorry, we're in a different state than we were used to before the attack of Ukraine, and some things we're just gonna have to deal with so-called a little bit on our knees, but we're always ready to discuss it, and we're gonna have to discuss it with the opposition. Regarding - specific materials. You can find these specific materials all on the website edu.cz/Ukrainian , there are materials for schools, there are methodological materials that went to the founders who went to the school heads about the Lex Act Ukraine, about other things, you will find almost everything there. The Ministry has also set up an information line for both self-government and school directors, an e-mail address where we immediately answer questions that are coming. So much in brief, hopefully that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. She wants to respond to the chairman of the club YES - priority law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u78	I'd like to - could I go to the minister's office? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate it. I won't be long. I thank the Minister, I am sure this is a positive report, I will be glad if you will discuss the opposition as we discussed them in the covido crisis, when I think that none of the ministers of health, and I think that the Minister of Education at the time consulted and was in touch with you, so we will certainly be happy. Of course, I'm not an expert on this, I'm not exactly in detail, but I understand - on the one hand, we approved Lex Ukraine together, that's true, you say tens of thousands of kids are already going to school, so I picked it up, but that's probably for the directors to decide. But now you're saying we don't know the numbers, and according to those numbers, we're going to match the strategy, we're going to see them at the end of May, you say. It's going to cost 5.2 billion in the short term. I've already read in the monitoring that you've been talking about 17 billion, I've read in the monitoring that you've estimated it at the total cost, so that's different, so you're probably talking about some medium-term strategy. I understand you said what you might have been able to say at this point, and I believe that honestly. But I don't think it's a clear strategy for me. I understand that you say tens of thousands of children are here, so that they have already found schools, kindergartens, it has to do with some vaccination strategy, I speak from experience when a Czech child goes to kindergarten, they must have compulsory vaccinations. So what I'm asking is, are there any screenings going on or is this being dealt with? I'm asking you, these kids are going to go from September to school, in the meantime there'll be some language camps. The cost lies in what? The 5.2 billion, that's for that quarter of a year, and the 17 billion is a year's worth of cargo? Just if you were a little... I don't want to test you here, I know you have a challenging program, but as a government coalition, you chose this term, that Tuesday, we were introduced to it and, of course, here we are, fulfilling our supervisory obligation of opposition and parliamentary, and we are asking. I appreciate that you're one of the few that responds to us, and I'm very glad, and I appreciate that, so be positive. But after all these questions - unfortunately, my honored colleague Professor Rais can't perform because he doesn't have priority rights, but I think I'm reading from his mouth, he might say it more qualified than I do, about the questions we should, if you could explain it a little more, share a little bit with us, because people are asking us, and how many times do they say, how do they get places at once? And we want her to get together, we want those kids to be able to go to kindergarten, to school, but we don't see how fast it's worked out, and we don't see how much funding. I understand that now, and I won't bother you - the finance minister isn't here, he should also sit here - that the amendment will just be necessary, because there wasn't yet a resort here that didn't say he wouldn't need the money, and you're gonna need the money, believe me, much more, because I have some experience with it. So I don't want to bother you. Only if you could be a little more specific. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. I just want to make sure that the President of the Excellent is given priority, which is long in order. Copy that. Mr. Education Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u80	Honestly, Madam President, through Madam President, I wish you not to be positive, now I am thinking incoherently. Otherwise, I'm glad you're positive. The numbers. You're calling for a strategy, and we need to be based on the numbers we have. At this point, we know that it is registered roughly - the Minister of the Interior will know exactly - 235,000 people who received the annual visa to date. Of the 235,000, there are 125,000 children between the ages of 3 and 18 who are likely to enter schools. We know these numbers. The 5.2 billion is the number that comes from this number. If all of them got into schools, like it's their duty to start compulsory schooling within 90 days, then if everyone got in, then we'd be ready for it. And that's the number of 5.2 billion crowns. Again, some of this is about a billion, which we count on increasing the normal operation of kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, i.e. regional education, through the system of financing regional education. 2.8 billion crowns may be the number that will mean the adaptation groups, which we now know from the field according to our surveys that the number of children is about a third. A third goes into ordinary teaching, two thirds go to those adaptation groups where they have Ukrainian teachers or Ukrainian assistants and they just have until June time to adapt, that's 2.8 billion, plus roughly a billion to regional education, plus the rest to 5.2 billion to those Czech courses. Is it clear, please, the number 5.2 billion here? Then it's 17 billion. That was one of the media's questions. If you simply translate the costs of education in general when you have 125 000 pupils, you will reach the number of 17 billion simply by ratio to the total costs and the total number of pupils and students. But that would mean that 17 billion is the maximum if there were a maximum number and a whole year. I repeat, now we're based on the number of those registered 125,000. I don't know if this number is gonna be like this in May or whatever. Now we're working with what we have. With the number 17 billion being that it won't be a whole year, it's ready for another increase. But we're going to find the relevant numbers directly from the field at the time of the questionnaire or the extraordinary recalculation that's normally done at the end of September, and that determines the system of financing regional education, so now we're going to do it at the end of March or April 1. Then you asked, Madame, for vaccination. That's what we've been discussing here, both in interpelation and then in the lex Ukraine. As far as vaccination is concerned, Ukrainian pupils and students are subject to exactly the same conditions as Czech pupils. If some of them are not vaccinated, they must be vaccinated. This is ensured by the Ministry of Health, which asked the European Union for additional vaccines for certain specific diseases. That's what the government's working on. Furthermore, if, for example, your colleague at the club was afraid, she had a question about tuberculosis. That's often bowed down. Unlike the Czech Republic, vaccination against tuberculosis is mandatory in Ukraine. Yes, it is very likely that many of these children do not have a vaccination certificate. In such a case, the Ministry of Health allows those mothers, if they are certain that the child has been vaccinated, to measure antibodies, and those antibodies are recognised as vaccinations. So that's this case. Otherwise, Ukrainian children relate to all conditions exactly the same as in Czech children regarding vaccination. The directors were advised to try if the number of Ukrainian pupils was greater so that they would not be dependent on whether or not a single mother would go or not, find, or find a child doctor, so that they would call a child's doctor to school and try in some way together in a relatively short period of time to examine the children, with the consent of the parents of course, directly at school, and thus make the situation easier for the mothers. That's our recommendation as the ministries we gave to the schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. This brings us to the long-awaited chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u82	Nothing happened, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I guess every person makes mistakes sometimes, maybe there's not something completely tragic about it yet. It's a mistake if we can't admit it. I would therefore like to tell you, by your means, both Mr Nacher and your fellow Members, that what I have argued is one of the things that has been about the fact that the previous government once asked for an extension of the emergency for more than 30 days. It's not true information. I've been checking this out. Unfortunately, there was an error on the side of the documents from the Legislative Council of the Government. Indeed, it was requested on 27 October until 5 December, but the previous emergency ended on 5 November. So it wasn't really for more than 30 days. I apologise to my colleague Nacher through the Vice-President. He really was right. As much as it may seem like it was, it wasn't for more than 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. By the time I get back to being properly enrolled in the debate, I'll read the apology received. First of all, Mrs Fischerová cancels her apology today from 14.50 am to the end of the day. Furthermore, Madam Secretary of the Environment Anna Hubáčková apologizes from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Michal Zuna also cancels his apology at 12:30. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, who can already prepare and reach his counter, is now another duly signed up. Please take your word for it, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the speeches that have been made here and which seem to have had something to do with what we are talking about. First of all, it is possible to prolong the emergency by 30 days. On the other hand, it may be more practical to put it for a longer time and then eventually cancel it. Because the Prime Minister here said that the government is controlled by the House, no doubt it is, and finally the House can cancel the emergency situation. So if there's no need for that, that could happen. Otherwise, we may be seeing each other longer and longer. That's the first thing. I don't think it's quite right to compare some of these topics. Because a virus that has relatively significant dynamics and can actually change within a few days or weeks is different from the situation that is here. We're at war. Not conventional, but we're at war with information, cyber, economic, and so on. The situation is obvious that it will certainly not end in a month or in two situations where hundreds of thousands of refugees will be here. Why the emergency is obvious. In order to speed up certain processes within the public administration so as not to have to put up a tender for everything. In principle, Czech citizens are only indirectly affected by this. So from this point of view, I think it's a bit of a shame that it's because of a thing that seems more formal to me, if we meet three times after 30 days, or if we meet once and then maybe a second time, if it needs to be canceled before it needs to be canceled, then maybe it's a shame. But okay. Then I'd respond to my colleague. Well, I don't think politicians are supposed to care about people, and I don't think so myself. I remember well the philosopher Bělohradský, who said at the beginning of the 1990s: the point of politics is not to care for people. And that is not even a right-wing, or a Christian-democratic philosopher who is very often expressing himself on politics. And I think it was Václav Bělohradský who described it that politicians were to create the conditions and rules that people then live in. [[15.40 hours]] That means it's a little different. The state is not a mamahotel. Of course, the state is supposed to help, the state is primarily supposed to set the rules and then watch over them and watch over them. So in that sense, I don't think that's quite the word. On the other hand, it is clear that if people are getting into some kind of trouble, the state is here to play its role in subsidiarity. Where the family can't handle it, where the community can't do it, whether it's a community or a wider community, then the state comes. And I think, unlike many colleagues here, that the government does not forget Czech citizens, but it is the concern for refugees that is also the concern for Czech citizens, because those refugees will just be here and it is just about what conditions they will be in. Of course, if they're in undignified conditions, there may be a health problem, hygienic, criminal and so on. So it is also in the interest of Czech citizens that the refugees who will be here, perhaps temporarily, part of them may settle here permanently to take care of them to help them, because they are not our citizens, but they are in a situation where they can only be very difficult to take care of themselves and so help them at least in that part. This means the meaning of the so-called trampoline, helping them bounce back to be able to take care of themselves as much as possible. Of course, the exception is those who cannot take care of themselves. Everyone has to take care of themselves, but at the same time everyone also has responsibility for society and for the whole creation as a whole, and therefore must also bear responsibility for those others who cannot take care of themselves, who are in some difficult situation. Then I would like to respond to Mr Tomio Okamura. He partially responded to it Marek Výborný. A bunch of his lies, which he repeated here, which he published publicly on social networks, and which he repeated here once again, even Radim Fiala, are easy to detect. The lies are that the 2004 report on extremism does not really talk about the Sudeten German compatriotic association. The so-called landmanshafts, sir in the room of the absent Tomio Okamuro, are several. That's why the report also says... Or the Landsmanshafts that Witikobund influenced the Landsmanshafts. So the landsmanshaft is not the only one, there are many. It's just to explain the nonsense you've been saying. And it is Witikobund that is not part of the compatriotic association, where politicians also come from the Czech Republic. There Witikobund is basically not invited, is not welcome and does not participate as an organization. And why was I on a Sudeton German day? Well, because they pushed out extremists. Certainly in 75 years of existence, or as long as this organization lasts, there has been some transformation. And we came there to support the reconciliation when they gave up their statutes on the so-called claim for their possessions. And we thought that was reasonable. It's supposed to close history with the fact that you can't forget it. That's what I said. We must not forget what is. And they claim that they're not really them anymore, but their fathers and their grandfathers, because 75 or 77 years after the war, it's probably hard for any of them to fight a gun in hand. That's just ridiculous, they'd have to be a hundred and more, and I haven't really met many of them. We need to remember, but we also need to look ahead, and if anyone recognizes their guilt, then what is Christianity is also needed, and that is what our civilization is built on, forgiveness, and that it must continue to look into the future. That means it's a complete lie. Witikobund has nothing to do with them and, on the contrary, thanks to Bernd Posselt, the extremists managed to push them into the other landmanshafts, and we don't really go there. And it's totally tragic to talk about who goes there. Yes, Czech politicians go there. Yes. For example, Daniel Herman, whose part of the family died in the Holocaust. Mrs Knoblochová, President of the Central Council of Jews in Germany. Do you think she'd go to events and receive and accept orders, medals, from some neo-Nazis? You've got to be kidding me. That's total nonsense. It's probably the same bullshit as the president of Ukraine being a Nazi or a fascist when he's Jewish. That's exactly the same demagogic, totally awkward story that is undignified to this House. And Mr. Tomio Okamura and the chairman of his club keep repeating these lies and nonsense. And it is a shameful lie and insults those who go there! So if the chair of the Central Council of German Jews and the Minister of the German Federal Government were sitting next to me, are you saying that I was at an event organized by neo-Nazis or Nazis? I can't believe this is happening anymore. You really fell out of cherries and on your side. And maybe something else. That's what I'm talking about. Plus, we're here to talk about who's going and who he's hanging out with... So let's talk about it. SPD's friends with AfD. When I said that AfD is the one who criticizes Christian Democrats in Germany and especially in Bavaria - CSU - for not being interested in Benešův's decrees, this is the AfD that wants to abolish them. That's the biggest move to abolish Benešův's decrees. And then Mr. Fiala here says, the chairman of the SPD club, well, we figured we wouldn't go back to these things. Well, they meet them, they go there, they hang out with them, they take pictures of them, people, most of whom have neo-Nazi views, and it's no secret, and some of them criticize the current German leadership for not wanting to break Benešův's decrees. I can say for KDU-ČSL that every time I spoke to them, so I said: Let Benešův's decrees sleep, we will not go back to them at all, it is a matter of history. So you guys look at who you're seeing. And Salvini? The one who wanted mandatory quotas? You hang out with them. So first, look at you. We go to these events, where democratic politicians are from social democracy, whether Czech or German, Christian Democrats are Czech and German, zelený Czech and German. There are representatives of Žid, Catholic Church, non-Catholic churches. Yes, because that's where the Democrats go. And that's not much to say about your friends from the AfD. And as far as the note goes, if we've already chosen a national bird. Well, we haven't picked that one yet, but if we had to pick the biggest dick in this House, I think the candidate is quite clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u85	This was the contribution of Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. I will ask him to address other Members through the President. And now for President Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u86	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm not gonna respond to landmanshaff, I'd rather forget that word, not even a national bird. That doesn't belong here. But I was intrigued by what Mr. Bělobrádek said, and that was that the state should not care about people. Well, then he eased things a little bit, the words. He is the difference whether we live in the normal world, and our government has experienced it during the election period, the normal world, the first two years, the first half of its term, or whether we are in a covid crisis or now in a crisis caused by Russia's aggression in Ukraine and a huge refugee crisis. And then, we even have laws to take care of people. We have this, for example, in the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility, where it is written - I will paraphrase freely - that the task of public budgets, especially the state budget, is not only to be balanced but to balance social differences in society. [[15.50 hours]] And as I said many times during our term of office, when else than in crisis? We have been in a crisis, we are in a crisis, and it is the responsibility of the state to take care of citizens. And unfortunately, I'm saying this very sadly, but unfortunately, those who are starting to find themselves in trouble are starting to become a very broad group because there is a refugee crisis. And I wrote on Twitter today that we have to take care of the refugees, we took them as our own, so I don't really distinguish the fugitive or the citizen who lives here. All those who are in the territory of the Czech Republic, refugees, people who were born here, all must take care of and solve problems caused by the energy crisis, rising fuel prices, rising food prices, estimated 20 to 50 percent, and of course this great refugee crisis. So I don't share that opinion, but I think it's gonna be a political difference between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u87	And with the response, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for the floor. I will please you, Madam President, through Madam President, this is not the case, there will be no difference. Since we are in a situation where my colleague Pavel Bělobrádek cannot respond, he asked me to officially tell you that he had misjudged himself in this sense. He meant that of course the state is supposed to care about people, that's what the state is about, but politics itself is supposed to create boundaries, it's a question of some ideas, conflict of ideas, a question of values. So politics isn't supposed to be targeted primarily with prism towards people, but of course the state is. So I guess we understand each other. berit of it as a message from my colleague Bělobrádek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u89	It's been handed over. And now in the debate is Mr Igor Hendrych. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, the refugee crisis brings a lot of problems that we are dealing with here today, but so far no one has touched on a specific area in this regard, and a very important area. The 300,000 refugees, or maybe more than 300,000 refugees coming into our territory, are also roughly based on some available statistics available to seniors over 65 years of age. And we should, of course, pay due attention to this issue as well. And at the end of my speech, I think I'm going to ask a few specific questions in custody at today's point, which means emergency. But now a little context. Basically, those 8,000 seniors over 65 years of age are potential users of social services, which are homes for seniors, homes with a special regime and also homes for disabled people. These social housing services in the Czech Republic are, in fact, permanently busy to the fullest, there is demand, increased demand over supply, there are waiting times, and that is what the citizens of Ukraine, who are just as needy are now coming to us - I put emphasis on it, as needy - as citizens of the Czech Republic. The problem is, or so I perceive it, that social services in the Czech Republic in general since the adoption of the budget for this year have been grossly underfunded. Grossly underfunded. I myself have a kind of reflection in my electoral region and elsewhere, how much money we have in social services through Chapter 313, that goes to social services, to salaries and partly to traffic, but especially to employees' salaries in social services, so around a billion crowns are missing, and some gross estimates say that it could be even more, that it could be a billion and a half and so on. By the way, by the very billion crowns I wanted to increase the budget in this area by means of my amendment, together with my colleagues Juchelka and other fellow Members from our club, but it did not. And now the link to the increased demand from people who come with the same needs from Ukraine and which we should satisfy. Does the government have a plan, or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to deal with this problem? Is he preparing any special grant programs in this area? 20 percent of the resources will already be missing, and clients will come to this, who will not yet have a care allowance, but which is an important part of the economy of those contributing and non-profit organizations. They can't do without the care allowance in the long run, and that's why the question is, how does the government stand up to it, and it would be good if someone here said it explicitly. The Minister of Labour isn't here right now, but I believe he'll get some answers. Now, a question about the emergency. The emergency situation, among other things, according to the crisis law, is basically admitting that exceptional work obligations may be imposed, and the extraordinary work obligation has been used in the past period, among other things, in social services facilities, when students of the fields that prepare future social workers were required to basically help the work obligations in those particular homes. So if that's what you're counting on, because there's a good chance that the staff will need to be missed. It's quite possible that these increased demands on the activities of residential services will require this. So, is the Department of Labor counting on something like that? And then the question of two, which also applies to the crisis law and to the emergency situation, would it be in accordance with Section 6 (1) (b) of the Act of Accession. 1 also used letter g), that means ensuring a substitute method of deciding on welfare benefits, now I say it very grossly, there it is defined a little bit more detail. If this paragraph or point (g) were to be used, it might be possible in some accelerated regime that these people would either have a care allowance faster or some equivalent through some special grant title, and that is what my question is about. That's all I'm saying. To conclude, therefore, only a brief statement that I, too, am not willing to support the extension of the emergency by 58 days, because I think 30 days is sufficient or sufficient time to meet after it and re-evaluate the situation and, if necessary, extend the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Next up, Mr Radek Vondráček is joining the speaker's desk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u92	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, given the stage of the debate, I think that if my contribution is briefed, it will be all the more welcome and may be all the more perceived. In my speech, I would also like to focus purely on the form of declaring an emergency, not on the content of which most of today's performances were about. You know, we have recently recalled 100 days of this government, and I have been acting as chairman of the constitutional-legal committee for the third time in 100 days, and let's say from a legal point of view, and for the third time, here I will be talking about circumventing the law by this coalition. The first case was when we voted on the so-called wage freeze - which was in fact a reduction in salaries - of judges, prosecutors, constitutional officials, and when there was an abuse of the state of legislative emergency and a reduced procedure that was not meant to be. [[16.00 hours]] Shortly thereafter, I stepped out when the pandemic law was being discussed. A pandemic law in which once again he was abused and surrounded by a state of legislative emergency right in the first stage. Subsequently, when the Senate pointed it out and the standard was returned to us, the government coalition refused to vote on whether the state of the legislative emergency would last. The government coalition refused to vote on the proposal that I personally proposed to abolish the state of legislative emergency, although I do have the right under the Rules of Procedure, although even the legal interpretation that was going on here on the benches did not answer that question at all. And there were such things as the rape of the Rules of Procedure, when the word was taken from a person given priority rights, and when it was voted at a time when it was not to be voted, and when the law was being discussed at a time when it should not have been discussed at all. And now it's the third time. It's an emergency now. The worst thing I can see from my point of view is that all three cases have one thing in common, namely that it is largely unnecessary. Because in the first case, when we frozen our salaries, here in December, a law was passed to freeze our salaries. Everything was constitutionally comfortable and fine back then. It wasn't about judges and prosecutors. However, the standard was returned by the Senate and then fell under the table. In the second case, we discussed the pandemic law, which was mentioned here by our colleague Mašek. The law and the night battle were basically useless, because within 14 days there was a significant release and essentially the pandemic law was not fulfilled, it was used. And from the beginning, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health said that it was basically a kind of insurance policy. However, insurance policies are not to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. There the violation was so flagrant that we turned to the Constitutional Court and now we are waiting for the result. For this emergency situation, there is, in turn, a gap that exists in Article 6 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2. It's all the less kind of me that we've set up a good practice here in this room in some way, we've had a bloody discussion here nine hours, eight hours, then nine hours, seven hours again, we've discussed the extension of the emergency situation, twice it was 30 days, then it was 20 days, by 14, by 11. But the point is that the government itself respected the 30-day limitation, which is not quite stated there, but is based on the logic of the matter. But the government respected it, put forward the proposals in this way and then, if necessary, voted a shorter time. But there's never been an overrun on that deadline. During yesterday's performance by Professor Gerloch in the television debate, I learned that he also presented this issue at the Government Legislative Council, that he sees it, he always says it so carefully that there is a gap in the law that, although there is a time limit for the first announcement of an emergency, but not for an extension, and that it would be good to make amends. According to the professor's statement, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior responded that this may be true, but the government has always respected and never exceeded the 30-day deadline, and it is therefore unnecessary to continue to deal with this legislatively, and this question has been pushed into the background. They probably had no idea at the time that a new government would come, and on the first opportunity, on the first opportunity that occurred, so let's say somehow the interpretation restrictions did not respect their powers and applied for more days. The emergency situation is a thing that we've been through a lot of times, it's basically just a legal framework. However, I draw attention to the fact that the legal framework itself is already creating some consequences for the citizens of the Czech Republic, for citizens of the Czech Republic, for example in the area of stricter criminal penalties in the event of criminal acts in an emergency. So in itself, it is already generating some changes in the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic. And that is precisely the most basic thing that we obviously cannot agree on, that we are concerned with the principle and that this is a constitutional law and that some good practice should be followed. And we are talking all the time about the principle, and on the other hand, we are listening to arguments about the fact that the covid and refugee crises are two completely different things, that we have tried out in those 30 days, that the government has not intervened in the rights and obligations of citizens in any way, or at all, that they are refugees from another country. But that's not the point of the debate that we're having here and that we want to have here. This is not a relevant argument. I saw on the screen when I watched the debate for a while on the premises of the Constitutional Legal Committee that Mr Nacher had approached Mr Výborný and that he was showing him something, so I suppose it has been clarified that the previous government has never asked for an extension of the emergency for more than 30 days. The argument was made twice in the TV debate, today it was heard on a microphone. The chairman apologized as I heard from the O.R., so all the better. So I will no longer continue my argument in this direction. What is striking, however, is that I am a source of law at the time of the pandemic law, so I have read you here a constitutional finding which clearly stated that from the perspective of the Constitutional Court and the practice in the Czech Republic can be a source of law, especially in the case of parliamentary procedures and especially in the case of constitutional law, because logical constitutional regulations are known for their greater abstractness, their greater generality precisely in order to ensure that their duration has a more general validity and avoid unnecessary frequent changes. The Constitution of the Czech Republic is really only one. There's only one right. And there is no difference from the point of view of law whether the crisis is covidic or refugee. That's what some of us tried to tell you repeatedly during this debate. No law is perfect, it's not universal. And constitutional law is also not perfect. We know there's a gap. But if there's good practice, there's a custom that we've muddyed up in hours and hours of debate about the emergency situation in the covid, so we should respect it. I know it's a relatively new custom, a year old. But it's every habit that's new sometimes. But this one is good, it has managed to bridge a certain gap in the law, which is why I find it outrageous that this custom is now trampled on by a new government coalition. You know, I was visiting the House of Lords once, and we asked all sorts of questions. For example, the debate included whether the mayors in England could be a member of the House of Commons. And the lord said to me a beautiful sentence: they can, but it is not customary here. I think that we should also respect more the customs that we have set here, especially if they are of a positive nature. I've already talked about Professor Gerloch's statement, so I'll skip it. I think it is not actually clear why the coalition is afraid of the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. I find it absolutely scandalous that the President's statement that he does not want to wear himself out, to exert himself in the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe I'll get it from the minister. But I consider this to be an entirely inappropriate commentary from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who is the first among the equals to be the chairman of all of us who should be my chair. And I, when I talk to foreign partners somewhere, I would like to talk about her purely positively and unitedly as our chairwoman, my chairwoman. So he can't talk about us, Parliament in this way, that the government is actually overexerting itself and that it doesn't really need us. [[16.10 hours]] There's one more thing I'd like to add to that. I also listened to Mr Benda's argument as president of ODS that we originally wanted 90, you want 30, so 58 is such a reasonable compromise. Please, that's some sort of buying line. But here we are talking about constitutional matters, the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I think that such a comment is completely inappropriate and does not belong in this discussion. I'll try to tell you another way. We've got athletes here. So have you ever seen an extension take longer than a game? Maybe it's two hours longer in football? So it's not logical that if there's a 30-day deadline, then it shouldn't be extended by 58 days, that it doesn't make the logic of rustic, logic quite basic? I think that although the custom is young, it deserves our respect that we deserve that respect as opposed. And I think that the existing coalition has missed once again, but this time fundamentally, the opportunity to fill up some of the moats that exist in society is unnecessarily creating a conflict and a conflict that may be good for the media, which has something to write about and what to report about, but that is all they contribute to. We could face a crisis here together. In those 30 days, if the conditions are still met, because we don't know how the refugee crisis is going to develop, it's not possible to solve all this with an emergency state forever, as long as there's at least one fugitive, it's gonna take an emergency. As I heard last night in some debate, why didn't the government propose an emergency for the entire term? They would have made it a whole lot easier and they would have done without us completely, they could have put a sign on the Chamber of Deputies: we rule, don't disturb! We could go home, we could get our parliamentary salaries, and we could talk to the citizens in our electoral precincts. I'm saying all this, I think, correctly, nicely, it was somehow in my head that I was supposed to do it last night. And I could not yet know that there would be another déjà vu from my point of view, because what happened in the pandemic law, that the senators of the government coalition themselves came and said that the pandemic law was adopted in violation of the laws of this country, so now the Senate commission and parliamentary procedures are coming again and again telling you to the government Members that it is not okay, that it may not be illegal, which is the argument of the petitioners, but at the same time it is not even legal. And so if we respect any custom, then such a proposal is not right and its further support should now be reviewed by the coalition. It's still not too late. And so I want to ask you from my position to think about it, or take a break and vote for the counterproposition that the emergency is extended by 30 days. It'll be fair to us, it'll be fair to your senators, it'll be fair to the public, and it'll be fair to those who are most concerned, after all, those are the refugees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Allow me to welcome you in this form. And please the next enrollment, which is Mr Karel Tureček, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, in my speech I would like to focus on agriculture and food industry and also on recommendations to the Government of this Republic on how it should also take place during the emergency period to address the literally critical situation in agriculture, food, eventually forestry and water management. I must say that we have witnessed the highest rise in food prices since the 1990s. Plant commodity prices increased by more than 20 per cent in February 2022 compared to 2021, food overall increased by 15 per cent. Unfortunately, further pressure on food price growth has been caused by the invasion of Ukraine, and this is particularly due to the continued increase in energy prices, when prices to our primary producers in agriculture have increased by an average of 180 to 225 percent, gas prices by 200 to 300 percent, fuel prices by 50 percent, animal production is a sharp increase in feed prices by 30 percent, fertilizers in plant production by 300 to 400 percent. We are also experiencing the highest increase in the prices of basic agricultural commodities, when the price of wheat on world markets increased by 100 percent from around 6 000 to CZK 12 000 per tonne. At present, for example, farmers still sell milk at CZK 10.50 to CZK 11 per litre, even though their inputs actually increased by hundreds, hundreds of percent. I want to ask you, how do you think, the Czech Government, how long can Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture be a pillow to this Purple inflation so that the Czech Republic can rely on the production potential of domestic agriculture, which is definitely not exhausted in the Czech Republic? And I must say that unfortunately, the Government of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture Nekula himself are going in the opposite direction. He doesn't want to lean on domestic farmers. He does not want to use the historic challenge to make the Czech Republic self-sufficient in terms of food production. Lately, the 100 days of the Fialův government have been documented by the government several times. The government is openly saying that it is not interested in producing our farmers and food self-sufficiency. He's experimenting on organic food. And here I want to underline that nothing against organic food, but it needs to be realised that eco-agricultural production today produces 15 percent of agricultural land. And you know, with 15 percent of the area of agricultural land, how much is involved in the consumption of organic food in the Czech Republic? Only 1.6 percent. 1.6 per cent against 15 per cent of farmed agricultural land. Yet the government is going in this direction, as if it weren't about food self-sufficiency in the present, I would say the global food crisis. Furthermore, the government divides farmers into small, medium and large ones with which it does not want much to talk, and by recasting the Common Agricultural Policy Strategy Plan in January 2022 sets unequal agricultural conditions. This step, however, punishes the most middle-sized farmers, those who manage land between 200 and 1,000 hectares, who significantly account for 30 to 40 percent of the production of basic agricultural commodities. The government does not want to protect Czech food production by its actions. For example, in the area of cereal exports, the government has done nothing. Not only did Hungary not follow, which even banned exports, but it did not follow other countries in Europe with its intervention purchases, either through the State Agricultural Intervention Fund or the Administration of State Material Reserves. [[16.20 hours]] It should be noted here that the government is not trying to address this situation either in the future, because the purchase of cereals from this year's crop is now decided, so in July and August it will be too late. Indeed, the government can look forward to a situation where all new crops will be purchased by speculators on the domestic market during June. And, of course, the government does not want to apply the produced agricultural commodities to the processing industry in the Czech Republic, on the contrary, taking steps where the basic raw materials will rather want to export and thus deepen the balance of agricultural exports. I must say that the government has an exceptional situation in the coming period to take advantage of the emergency situation and, in addition to the basic inputs that are causing food prices to rise, whether it is an area of energy prices, fuel, gas, eventually even in the area to a certain extent minimise demand pressures on agricultural commodities, so the government should in particular clearly define the area, as I have already mentioned, of intervention purchases of basic agricultural commodities through the institutions it has at its disposal. Furthermore, the government should seriously consider the massive support of domestic agriculture and food industry. I'll give you some examples here where the government could act practically immediately. For example, in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, there is talk of an oil crisis, particularly the lack of sunflower oil in Europe. Since 2000, the area of sunflower cultivation in the Czech Republic has decreased by 19 000 hectares. By the way, if Minister of Agriculture Nekola wanted to address this situation, he has a unique option, because the crop of sunflowers in the Czech Republic will be decided only now. It can still sow and can increase this area almost immediately by just 19,000 hectares. It can also take advantage of the fact that, in the livestock sector, especially in livestock animals where there is a small generation interval, it can practically increase poultry in the poultry and egg sector by such investments to stabilise food self-sufficiency in this sector within six months. Finally, the government has an exceptional situation in terms of the position of the European Union, when exceptional support of CZK 270 million has been approved by the Czech Republic for these sensitive commodities, these sensitive sectors in the field of animal production and plant production. And the government of the Czech Republic can immediately increase this support by up to CZK 540 million from national sources by its decision, so that in practically one single week, it can decide on extraordinary support for the agricultural and food sector by CZK 810 million. The government is unresponsive, the government is silent, the government does not want to support Czech farmers. Last but not least, it is also necessary to support farmers of primary producers in Poland, when the Polish Government has decided on an exceptional grant of EUR 380 per hectare, a subsidy for farmers for the purchase of fertilisers, which, as I have pointed out here, has increased by between 300 and 400 percent. I want to stress that this is just a few points of action that can be taken before the upcoming food crisis, which will undoubtedly hit Europe. And the government has a unique opportunity to minimize this crisis, the consequences for the Czech people. [[its]] He's not doing it. I would also like to stress that the Minister of Agriculture is not only not going to interpelation, he does not go to the House, so it is not possible to discuss this big problem on the House floor, so he will have a unique opportunity in three months. It should be noted that the Czech Republic will be President of the European Union, and I would like to emphasise here that the common agricultural policy is one of the few common policies of the European Union and he will be President of the Council of Agriculture and Food Ministers of the European Union. What does the President of the Council of Ministers want to achieve in the European Union when he takes such an irresponsible approach on this issue? Does Prime Minister Fiala realise this great responsibility and, at the same time, the great challenge for Czech agriculture and food industry that, from 1 July, at the time of the deepest crisis in agriculture and food industry in Europe, the Czech Republic will chair the Council of Agriculture Ministers, chair the common agricultural policy? I want to say that we still have time to prevent or eliminate the impact of the food crisis in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I must also stress that in two months it will be too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next enrollment is Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u96	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I apologize for my vote, but I followed the recommendation of our ministers, so on Mr Stanjura's recommendation, I pulled out my bike, on Mr Síkela's recommendation, and the result is that I stopped talking. They weren't good advice. I'm telling you, don't hold onto them. That didn't go so well. Last week, I learned from Mrs Adamová Pekarová's statement that the state should not care for its citizens and should not carry them by the hand. Mrs Pekarová Adamová spoke as President of the Chamber of Deputies and therefore spoke for all of us. And I am strongly - and I say strongly - defending myself against this statement. According to my court, the state has a duty to take care of its citizens, and that's what this state is for. He's got his own government, he's got his own Parliament, and he's got his own Senate. If that were not the case, then what would these elements serve the state for? I, and certainly many of my colleagues, and not just from our side, have been running for MP precisely to help people. To work on their behalf, she actually took care of them a little bit. And that's how it should be. Perhaps this is also shared by many of Mrs Adamová Pekarová's colleagues from the five-fingered coalition, because the government, in my opinion, does not do everything for the benefit of our citizens. He doesn't do anything vital to his citizens, and I don't think it's just me. Many of our fellow citizens think so, and so do our voters. And that's probably why your preferences are falling. You just need to get into Facebook posts. [[16.30 hours]] I understand the emergency extension request. We farmers have an emergency any minute now. But I really cannot agree with its length, as I do not agree with the statement by some of our government officials that we are at war. Please stop haunting our people more than it's really necessary. We're not in any war. Please don't spread this alarm message because old citizens are getting scared, and none of us want that. We're in big trouble. And they're big, and if you put up with these problems with the unwillingness to help our people and businesses, those problems will be even bigger than they've been. This emergency is mainly due to events in Ukraine, but we should also talk about the need that is approaching many of our citizens, and use it to encourage our economy. I want to focus mainly on agriculture. I have been convinced several times by Minister Nekula that he does not seem to fully appreciate his responsibility as Minister of Agriculture and, above all, he has it with regard to our country, our farmers, food professionals and citizens. His Sunday performance on Václav Moravec's question show I would call Brussels underbelly. And it was so obvious that it couldn't be overlooked, please. Mr. Teplý of Madeta made it clear how we stand as the Czech Republic, and as a huge practice, he said it completely uncovered and said it truthfully. And the shallow argument of our Minister of Agriculture raised a wave of citizens, and she didn't leave a single farmer calm. People flooded Facebook with questions, statements, unfortunately, even rude insults, but no one, no one there, disagreed with our Minister of Agriculture. The Minister should be aware, please, that he represents our - our - farmers and food professionals. What Brusel wants must be taken into account, but their demands, which destroy our agri-food sector, should be opposed as a minister and not laxly accepted. On Sunday, the Minister seemed to me, and I will take the words of a poet, like a cane in the wind shagging. And that certainly did not fill me with optimism in the future of our agriculture and our country. He also said that we are surplus in wheat and milk. Minister, it was. This is no longer the case, because we have also been hit by the Ukrainian crisis, the energy crisis, the embargo crisis against Russia and everything that has to do with it. This is now reflected by an increase in, of course, energy prices, PHM, packaging, fertilizers, followed by a sharp increase in food, and there will be a food crisis. [[prices]] And I would now like to borrow the words of President Jan Doležel's Agrarian Chamber and say that it is not about whether we are going to have a food crisis, but how big the crisis will be and how long it will last with us. So the fundamental question that the government should have: what can we do to ensure that this crisis of our people and our companies, in turn, affects our farmers as little as possible? And so far, with its inactivity and lack of help from people and companies, this government is already weakening our Czech weakened positions on the European market and especially on the Czech market, and please do so in all segments of the economy. To say "we don't have money, we have to submit to Brussels," so that's really a lot for the government, but very little. I see that another problem is the refugee crisis that is happening. And we will not only feed our nation today, but we must also be responsible for those whom we have offered dwellings and aids that have fled from the war that is taking place in their territory, which was their homeland. And I would expect the Minister of Agriculture, in the current situation, to intensify the debate with the representatives of the agrarian sector and to obtain the basis for the argument, in order to increase the funding of this ministry to support the agri-food segment, to try to postpone the deadline for the effectiveness of the reform of the common agricultural policy as far as possible, because we do not know how we will emerge from the crisis and what awaits us. And it will also try to change Green Deal's objectives and their parameters, because, at a time when Europe is likely to face food shortages, and Green Deal's objectives are reducing Europe's production per hectare, and especially in the Czech Republic, it is my view that ministers of other countries should also respond positively to these arguments when it comes to the well-being of their citizens and join our minister. And I think that when I say, "Sir Minister, please be a minister who is a leader in the struggle for the prosperity of his country, of his farmers and of the food professionals you represent, and do not hide behind Brusel and its regulations," I speak not only from the soul of our farmers and food professionals, but from many of our citizens. We don't know what the future will bring us, and there may be regulation on the supply of energy and fuel. So please, government, work to ensure that agriculture and food industry is included in the critical infrastructure of the state, because if you don't do it and get tough, what will our people eat? I don't think your government words are gonna eat. You want to reduce dependence on the Russian oil and gas market. Who other than you, the government, has such an opportunity to influence this reality? The Minister of Agriculture can support the proper rotational procedures and increase the percentage of incorporation of the bio-component into diesel. Unfortunately, the European Union and the United States are going in this direction. And I'm asking, can you please tell me why we're the only ones going the other way? I don't get it. And for those who write to me that the bio-component is destroying diesel engines, so I got this message from the repair plants, from the car manufacturers. I've been going over them during my illness, and I've got some answers. I'm not an expert on this, I'm happy to learn, and companies that have their transport services and their subsequent repair centers say it's not true that the engines are built to mix the biocomponents, and on the contrary, they'll be worse off after they don't mix the component into those engines anymore. So by putting an end to this, you're probably not gonna change anything positive for our truckers. And we have the end of March, and it is clear that Ukraine will not sow, and what it sowed in the fall is gradually destroyed. So why does our Minister not speak at the meetings of the European Union ministers on the possibility of common regulation of the market in agricultural commodities so that food and feed commodities are not exported to third countries? What will Europe do at the end of the summer, with reports of a rather below-average crop? Our farmers certainly want to produce quality and cheap food for all of you, but if the government doesn't help the way other governments do, they will have no choice but to reduce rising spending by selling to the highest bidder and then increase prices. Otherwise, they'll go into liquidation. By not helping, the decline of our companies is getting closer and closer. And who will be responsible for this? Directors of these companies, owners, the Minister, who did not raise enough money for his department, the Minister of Finance, who refused to give the money, the Prime Minister, who refused to talk to us all about it. When that happens, colleagues and colleagues, it will be too late for everyone. And we can call ourselves "you did this," but it'll be too late for everyone else. And I'm saying this so that we can recover while there's still time. And my favorite topic - significant market power. You all know I've been holding different sessions for three years, round tables, working groups. President of the SOCR, Trade and Tourism Union, Mr Tomáš Prouza, for his untruths, manipulation of facts, paid great advertising false - I have nothing to say about that. All I'm saying is who you eat the bread, sing the song, and, as you can see, the strings pay well, because Mr. Prouza sings us better than Pavarotti. Minister of Agriculture and Government, in your hands is the possibility of a significant restriction on the practices of chains, which we call unfair, which are very damaging to our food and farmers, and consequently other segments of the economy from which there is not enough money flowing into the Treasury. And you need them. We're still looking for them. Then help them to come. [[16.40 hours]] The goal should be to hold conversations about a reasonable margin for food and to divide this margin fairly in the food vertical so that everyone, everyone, has the opportunity to live. It's not like they're gonna expand the chains, they're gonna pick up other people's groceries. Because I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance if he'd be kind enough to let a deputy count how much money we're gonna get in the state register from German yogurt and how much of Czech? I'd be very interested. Who makes us more money if we're still looking for the money? And I think everyone, including consumers, would eventually appreciate it, because it's all going to be paid for by the last guy in line, and that's the citizen, the customer. You're looking for money for the agricultural sector, Minister Nekula, so stop putting one at a disadvantage and putting the other at a disadvantage and putting the money where it makes sense. And it makes sense for those who produce, and it doesn't matter if they're big or medium. Therefore, establish for all - and I say to all - minimum agricultural production from managed hectares. And the boys from Wenceslas, let's have them graze again today, 'cause up until now, the other guys, the guys who did something. Act like a good caretaker and let's stop sponsoring hobby farmers and we'll all be better off. There will be money to support both agriculture and citizens. Now, while you can raise more money from indirect taxes, i.e. in products and services, it's your general solution, but you're increasing inflation. And most of the costs are borne by the lowest income group and middle class. In the lowest class you want to help different contributions and you say that you will not help across the board, but it is the same cost of the state, you will not help the middle class, you will pay it all from your own, and thanks to them and inflation you will devalue their current savings. You will make some other low-income group and then you will force our citizens to go begging the authorities for money, which you will graciously contribute to them in the hope that they will vote for you and love you for it. And I don't think that's how it works, that's not how it's gonna work. The state has to know what it wants to say. Whether it wants a solidarity society across the public or a state-type state: help yourself, we, the government, are not here to help you, we are now dealing with a completely different problem. And I think that now I speak not for our club, I speak for a number of citizens who are flooding the Internet with desperate requests, and these requests are also directed at you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, Madame. pan Michal Kučera, on behalf of the President of the Jakob Club, has now signed up with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u98	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, once again today. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond briefly to the readings of my previous speakers. They were quite touching, many things I have read several times and heard several times. More or less in the same stylization they were probably put into that speech anyway, but I'm not questioning it, I think it's legitimate. I'd just like to put my foot down here - and I'm sorry I'm taking advantage of the priority right, given that there are no factual points here, so I'm sorry that I'm taking advantage of this priority right. All I want to do is lean on the fact that this isn't happening. I would just like to say that there is a meeting tomorrow, which I called as chairman of the agricultural committee called - so I will read it with permission to make it exactly: The critical situation in agriculture and its implications for ensuring sufficient food and feed in the Czech Republic. This takes place tomorrow morning at 7:30 a.m., representatives of all parties are invited there, in addition to being invited by the Minister, there is an Švagr from the President of the State Reserve Administration. There is an invitation from the Chair of the Food Chamber, there are invited representatives of the most important NGOs such as the Agricultural Chamber, the Agricultural Union and the Association of Private Agriculture. The goal is to really figure out the concrete steps to define them and find the intersection between us and take the concrete steps that we could take at this point. These steps will be formulated both towards the Government of the Czech Republic and, of course, will be transferred to the negotiations of the Agricultural Committee. The fact that we probably don't agree on all these steps, that everyone will have a different idea, that's the second thing. But I believe that we're going to find some intersection of these sets, that these sets just kind of intersect there in some way, and we can define the concrete steps that have some consensus on which they can go through the vote. Because by not being an executive component of state power, executives, we're, of course, deciding mostly by voting here. So I'm also looking for this consensus in that sense. So I want to turn to the fact that it doesn't happen, that it doesn't happen. We are all aware that the situation is critical. The fact that agriculture is not simply an automotive factory that can be locked, closed or shut down for a fortnight, we all realize that. That from agricultural production, especially animal production, you just can't leave for some sort of outage, we all know that. The fact that there are increased inputs, that there are increased inputs both on the energy side and, of course, on the feed side and others, is also clear. The question is how we will deal with it and how we will work with it. And the answers should be heard tomorrow at the meeting. Mr Faltýnek is invited there for the ANO movement, so of course he will also be able to interpret the position of the ANO movement. And I believe that we will find some consensus there in order to be able to formulate this for the Chamber of Deputies towards the Government of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. I'm privileged to see President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr President of the Agricultural Committee, thank you for your information. I, because my colleague, Mrs Balaštíková, does not have the opportunity to speak with priority rights, so she just asked me to interpret, so I want to say, I have more to say, that she wrote that speech today, so you couldn't hear it anywhere. She was just begging me to say that it was really her words, the way she felt them, the way she felt them. The fact that you're calling this meeting is definitely a good thing tomorrow, because the situation is very serious. I think she should be summoned by Minister Nekula, that this is a big problem after all. I am, without wanting to play any agricultural expert here, I am not at all, but of course I live - I was the Minister of Finance for four years, so I worked a lot with agriculture, we put in historically the most money in our government and I listen to all the debates, and now I was quite horrified, on Sunday I spoke in Questions Václav Moravec Mr. Teplý, owner of Madeta, our biggest actually dairy manufacturer and milk processor, if I say it correctly, and from his words, I think it's like he said about himself, "I've been working in milkmaking for thirty years," so he literally said it, and his words were very chilly when he said that last year he paid 17 million for energy, only now it's 51. Then he talked the same way about the difference between fuels, he said how they're going to project it into margins. And he literally used the word: it's before the fall and the government does nothing and should act immediately. Those were really very chilly words from a man, he himself says, thirty years into it, I didn't come here to dig, or fifty even my colleague here tells me to kick the government or the minister. He literally said a more popular word that I won't repeat as a lady here. But the situation is serious, you named it correctly, you said: energy prices, fuel prices are rising. Feed prices are rising in a horrible way, you said it right. And all of this, of course, is reflected in food prices, which are estimated to be between 20 and 50 percent. A whole number of European countries have responded to this, even some countries within the framework of these global measures... we are still talking about energy, we are proposing to forgive energy taxes, fuel taxes, but some countries have forgiven and reduced VAT for fuel, some for food. This is, of course, for discussion, the options they have chosen have been chosen by 24 countries in Europe. Now, last week, Germany, which was one of the last groups, Great Britain, are big countries and have chosen one of the options. Very often they are tax exemptions, then of course it is a form of cropping, some combine, and then they are very important subsidies to different areas, and area. I'm just talking about the area measures. [[16.50 hours]] I think the voice is very loud, it's not just from the opposition anymore. We started saying it first, we even did it, our government, in November and December, but we're just hearing it in public space. Politicians say so, commentators of various servers, which are definitely not a fan of the ANO movement. So I think the government should be almost there, I don't know if it's 12 in five minutes or 12 hours, but the situation is very serious, except agriculture, of course. You named it. To call a meeting tomorrow is commendable, it is certainly necessary to talk to the state's material reserves as well. Mr Švagr-in-law is an experienced chairman of these state material reserves. It will give you information as to whether there is no need to buy on state material reserves and so on. So that's good, but I think, above all, it should be a topic for the Minister of Agriculture and for the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Madam President, and the rapporteur is next. So the rapporteur also applied with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u102	I would like to respond to Vice-President Kučera. I'm taking notes as much as I can. Thank you for the part where he reacted factually, and at the same time, I'm sorry about the personal stuff like that, if anyone's reading the speech, or it's already been recycled three times and so on. If you have listened carefully to all these speeches, each of my colleagues, including me, have talked about the area in which we are moving in some way, whether it be agriculture, Jiří Mašek about health, colleague Vondráček about the legal aspect, I suppose Aleš Juchelka will now focus on the issues relating to the social area. And it's material stuff, we don't bring in landmanshaft, we don't blame anyone for lying. So maybe it would be really good to respond to it, ideally from the ministers' masters, if they're here, in a worse case, not to react, but to start saying, if someone's reading something here, and the way to dehonest this person - you also know that I'm trying to talk on the floor, I should have written it because I sometimes quote someone or quote a lawyer's opinion on whether it's possible for 30 days or more, so I'm going to look into those papers - it really feels like a useless smallness, especially when you had something to offer from the point of view of the content of that agriculture. So many comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. And another logged in is Mr. Aleš Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for finally reaching out to ordinary, ordinary Members who do not have priority rights and who have waited here for the series, although they often jumped out of the bench to say something. Of course, I don't have the luxury of preferential rights, even if I don't deny it, and I can finally ask questions about this microphone here, but also a little bit of controversy with the government and what was said here by its representatives today. I will respond to the speech by Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister MPSV Marian Jurečka, who himself, in his speech, praised how the help for the citizens is working and running smoothly, so now I have some points here. So, Minister, first point. 40,000 more requests for a housing allowance? Are you really bragging about this? Are you saying that's really enough here in this situation? Do you really think that the housing contribution will help citizens to increase fuel prices? That the housing contribution will help citizens increase food prices? Unfortunately, it won't. The housing allowance is the only instrument of this government that you have offered to citizens, perhaps even extra immediate assistance, but it is also not very broad. Otherwise, really nothing. The second thing that has been said here today from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is: we have multilateralised pensions. What's that? How did the government rate pensions? This is a legal framework that is an automatic machine and which automatically increases the pensions if some percentage of inflation is exceeded in five months. And this legal framework is likely to achieve that pensions will be increased twice more this year, probably in June and also in November. You don't seriously think this is being sold here as some kind of social success for this government to raise prices? That's the law, that's just what you have to do. That the measures are populist and adorable? That was also said today by Minister Marian Jurečka. The only countries in Europe that do not have full support for combating inflation are Luxembourg, Belgium - sorry, Denmark and the Czech Republic. The others do. I have a table like this where the VAT reduction, the price ceiling, or the third aid that Ex-minister Schillerová was talking about a while ago, and these are direct subsidies, flat subsidies to households and also to companies. [[shows]] The only three countries - and, of course, as an island in the middle of Europe, the Czech Republic is not helping across the board at all. They are helping Belgium, for example, Bulgaria, Finland, Croatia, France, Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Austria, Romania, even Sweden, and of course we are not. And that's just what I read from the point of view of reducing excise duties or VAT. Different forms of this help here, and I'll forward the table to you, there you can, of course, inspire. And I would not say that it would mean that all these governments in these European countries are populist. No way. So do you, Minister, do this mean that populists rule there, or are they governments that are aware of the seriousness of the situation of making everything more expensive and taking measures to help? I think it's more like the other one. I don't see them in France, populist governments, Belgium, Germany, Austria. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has a government in this context - and I am not afraid to label it and say it - antisocial. Helping all people, that's important. All people in the Czech Republic. For example, if we stop fuel prices, we will help not only Czech citizens, but also war refugees who also need to pump petrol or diesel into their cars. If we reduce VAT to food, for less, both war refugees from Ukraine and Czech citizens will buy. It's no populism, as this government is constantly trying to tell us here. This is an existential problem for many people, and it is about the helpfulness and empathy of this government. Everyone around Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Austria can cope with the crises of both the refugee and the inflationary and energy ones. There's only half the gas in my house. On the contrary, people need your determination and belief that you will not let them down. Simply and simply, government, go full throttle! Up to a fifth of households face a fall into poverty, some say even one third. The pattern of these people is wide and constantly growing and expanding, and we even have 40 percent more executions than in the autumn of last year. In Ostrava, some social service providers do not even have gas to reach their clients, not to mention over-regional social service providers. In doing so, the government has not paid the regions and municipalities a crown yet, and they are drawing it all from their own budgets and from their own reserves or from the investments they had prepared to repair schools, routes and so on. So when is it going to be when they're pulling it out of their budgets? When will this government give these munitions and regions the money promised? [[17,00 hours]] It is a great truth that, first and foremost, it is necessary to fight aggressor Putin, and no one at all is questioning it, nor, of course, the opposition. On the contrary, we strongly support all the actions of the opposition (?) and we voted on all matters relating to Ukraine with the government. We're even in favor of prolonging the emergency. But it is not possible to push away the Chamber of Deputies, which also has a supervisory function towards the government, from wanting to ask that he wants to know how the situation is developing, what the news is. That's why we prefer 30 days, not 58. And the arguments raised about the Constitutional Court? Let the Constitutional Court, of course, solve it, blame it on him, let him decide, if we can completely comfortably approve 30 days here, no one will have anything against it, probably no complaint against the Constitutional Court will go. Oh, no, we want our 58 days so that this aid can probably be as long as possible without the scrutiny of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister and Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan here said emergency, this is a classic crisis management instrument. Yes, but crisis management should be under control and constantly evaluate the crisis management at short intervals. And he said that so that help could be quick, efficient and targeted. That's just great, this turn, because when I remember these people here who were in opposition benches in the last term, they made an emergency out of this double word, into a word and into a word. And everyone sees it on social media. What they said a year ago, when there was a pandemic on top, and what they're saying now, right now. Marek the Výborný, through Mr President, says not to repeat the debate we have here today again. He said on the microphone, "Do you want to repeat the discussion we have here again in 30 days?" I think so, that we should meet here again after 30 days, and once again, the government should ask for an extension of the emergency. What does that mean? That means in other words, don't bother us here, we want to rule, don't ask us anything, don't work. Is it hard for you to come to the House and the House in 30 days to settle accounts? Answering questions from Members? Why? I beg this government to simply and simply think of the two crises we have here. And I'm very much asking this government in the name of social reconciliation, it's very important. We will be happy to help you in this as an opposition and support you. But it takes more helpfulness, empathy and, above all, courage in decision making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mrs Helena Válková. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. Dear and dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, after such a dramatic and beautiful speech by my fellow speaker, it will be difficult for me to talk about constitutional matters, but I will try to draw your attention. However, I originally - now I will take something from the rapporteur Nacher - originally I did not want to speak at all, Patrik, also through you, but given that I have been made available to you as all of the other resolutions of the Permanent Senate Commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and Parliamentary Procedures, they have a little longer title, and since I am your will, and I am of course glad to be the Vice-President of our Permanent Commission for the Constitution, I simply have to comment on this. He took much of it from me, as is his good custom, Mr Radek Vondráček... oh, he's here. It was earlier, so it's gonna be a little bit shorter with my speech. I just want to point out a few things. Stressing over and over that we do not have it in the legal text, this deadline, is completely unnecessary. But it doesn't, in my legal opinion, mean that we can act in a voluntarist manner and threaten the predictability of the law, and therefore the rule of law as such, because it is right for us to do so. But I said I wouldn't be political, so let's do it the legal way. Many of these arguments are very systematic in this resolution of the Permanent Senate Commission and we all had the opportunity to read them, so I will just stop by some of them and try to add some. Firstly, it is in this resolution and also in my speech that it is really a government, a government and once again a government that plays a dominant role in this regard, and the only one who can check it, especially after the Constitutional Court does not have, allow me to say the folk expression, nor the taste, nor the mandate to control our decision-making in this regard, so all the more so the Chamber of Deputies should be vigilant and should just examine and analyse whether really, if it uses, it does not want to tell me the gaps, but the free space for interpretation, so it will humbly work out and lean towards the interpretation of the language, logical and legal text, or more conservative than to the interpretation of the extensive. This is also highlighted by the resolution of the Senate Permanent Commission, and I wanted to draw attention to that. It really does, if we use the argument and contrario, that means if we could do it, as I think we've already said here, to some absurd level, that government could really extend it by months, years, it wouldn't be bound by any deadline at all. And when we look at the government and its political connections with most Members in the Chamber of Deputies, there is a really big risk that you could do basically what she wanted. That is why we have certain principles of the rule of law here, which undoubtedly includes the predictability of law and the humility of executives, which, of course, is difficult to enforce in this case. However, as the former Minister of Justice, I must say that I very much did not like to appear in those 13 months, but it is a short period, but you will see something before the Chamber of Deputies, asking, begging and convincing them to approve something, and it was not just legislative bills. So I can imagine very well that it is much easier to undergo this unpleasant procedure only occasionally. In addition, one aspect of the resolution, which, as you can see, I am already glossing, is classified under letter (c) and could escape your attention - and actually it is also in that point (b) - is about canceling the emergency situation. The point is that here, while the extension requires the Chamber of Deputies to act actively to grant the active consent, the cancellation of the emergency situation, as we know, is a negative decision-making nature. And all we have to do is think about the number and political distribution of forces, and we find that this is another reason for us to apply this parliamentary control here, but really, in practice, and not just for the empty words or the appeals that we can read in the comments on constitutional laws, so that we can act as in the past, that is, 30 days and come before the Chamber of Deputies again. We all know that the situation is very dynamic, that it can happen that the emergency situation will be prolonged repeatedly, I don't want to alarm, but the war has taken us by surprise, and the twists can be very unpredictable. Or maybe the anabolics can end, and there's no need for an emergency. I am rather skeptical in this regard, and I think that we will come forward repeatedly and that even those 58 days may not be enough, that is my guess. I wish I was wrong. [[17.10 hours]] I think that even as - as the experience is useful here - the Human Rights Commissioner of the Government I have spent two and three quarters of a year trying to assess everything apolitically and to the Prime Minister of the day, Mr. Andrea Babiš, and it was not always easy to say yes, this will stand up to the human rights optics and this will not, and you are taking risks, Prime Minister. I always did, and I didn't always get applause for it. This is about serious interference with fundamental human rights. If I were still an agent at this time, I would run bravely to Prime Minister Petr Fiala and I would say pay attention - but he doesn't have anybody there now, so he probably never ran after him - beware, my Prime Minister - because the proxy should always be very loyal and the loyalty is reflected in the fact that he is courageous and preventive, that he draws attention to possible pitfalls - beware, do not ask the House for an extension of more than 30 days, because this is what our time undoubtedly is, so you bring another element into it, which can be very vengeful to us. Let me give you one more example. Okay, now we have a government that, in my opinion, despite all the criticism I've heard here from my colleagues and colleagues, is trying. They are trying to face what is pouring on it from Ukraine and what we are facing and what our government would be facing in connection with the increase in energy and others. He's trying. We'll see the results. However, imagine that we would have a different government - and in the past we have experienced such governments - for a long time now - and it would not have been optimal and the distribution in the Chamber of Deputies would have been different. Perhaps there would also be a majority link, that is, the political link between the government and the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. You're opening Pandořin's locker by prolonging the emergency situation by asking for more than 30 days to extend the emergency situation. I'd be worried. There will be another government, another Chamber of Deputies, and it can be proposals then - if you extend 58 days, the next time it can be 90 days and you have a majority. Not you, but the government and the Chamber of Deputies. If there isn't a fixed limit in the form of a 30-day deadline that we don't have written, but the interpretation is very easy to guide - and I don't want to say that your step, if you put it in majority right now, will be unconstitutional, but it's at the very limit of unconstitution, you're balancing it, okay, but in any case, it's disproportionate interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms, I insist. I certainly think that if not for us, you should heed the recommendation of the Senate, which, in this respect, the hat down, has been very responsible for this, probably in the awareness of the constraints that you at least weaken and open with this proposal. So I appeal to you as well as to my previous speakers and previous speakers to consider this - there will, of course, be an amendment to extend the emergency by 30 days. For example, to show us how excellent, helpful, constructive, smart and in every way you are in this regard as we would like to have you, kind government. So in any case, dear Members of Parliament, I too join the crowd of those who appeal to our reason and our legal feelings, and I would be very happy if you would do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u107	Thank you, Jana Berkovcová, and another one entered in the debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the justification and extension of the emergency situation. However, even after a month there is still a clear migration plan missing, which the government will address everything related to the arrival of 300,000 refugees from Ukraine, and especially the strategy for the future, how we will proceed when refugees come even more. I will talk about the need for a strategy in the field of education and education, where financial and human resources are lacking and a long-term plan for the integration of pupils of foreigners into Czech schools. We lack tools to support Ukrainian children who are at the age of transition from primary to secondary education. There is no intensive language support that would allow them to quickly integrate into teaching. There is a risk that due to the lack of systemic language preparation, we will be wasting the educational potential of young Ukrainian people. Barrier for these pupils can be entrance exams at secondary schools and we should not forget those who did not finish their secondary education in Ukraine, how they can pass the graduation and final exams without sufficient knowledge of Czech. This group of young people is more at risk than the younger ones that are thought of in the first place. They need intensive teaching of Czech. In secondary schools, there is often zero support for pupils who do not have Czech as a mother tongue. High schools find it difficult to finance Czech teaching, as well as teachers who would teach Czech as a second language. In addition to intensive language support, other support pedagogical and non-teaching staff will also need to be involved in schools. Schools need Czech teachers as second language, adaptation and integration coordinators, foreign language assistants, social educators, psychologists. Where are they gonna get the money? And if we solve the financial resources, what about the human resources? People in these positions have been shorthanded before, let alone now. There is a need to allocate funds to the measures concerned that will not depend on unstable and short-term resources, such as operational programmes financed from European resources. To create a system that also teaches Ukrainian pupils going to secondary school Czech, it is necessary to set aside hundreds of millions of crowns, because the cost of failed integration can be much higher. And intensive Czech courses need to be prepared for their parents so that they can successfully participate in the work process. In addition, so many sought-after medical and teaching professions require both a qualification and a language examination from Czech according to the law. Students from Ukraine will need adequate support to successfully integrate into education, and it will have a major impact on their future education and careers. Data show that a third of foreigners aged 17 years are outside the education system, which is multiplely higher than in peers from the Czech Republic. The Minister of Education has already said that about CZK 17 billion will be needed for the integration of refugees only by the end of the year. According to him, the sum is based on the current average cost per pupil and provided that 120 000 refugees join Czech schools. According to recent estimates, there are about 300,000 refugees in the Czech Republic, of which about half are children. The estimate envisages the integration of 43 000 children under the age of six, 81 000 pupils in primary schools and 24 000 pupils in secondary schools. So that is almost 150,000 children and pupils. [[17.20 hours]] And as the Minister of Education said, by the end of August we need an amount of about CZK 5 billion, according to him it is about money for adaptation courses, teachers' assistants and other workers or teaching Czech for foreigners. To finance adaptation groups, the Ministry wants to use simplified applications for subsidies, so-called templates. The money won't be right away. And so far, according to the information from the county to fund adaptation groups, school facilities are getting sponsorship donations. This is therefore not very systemic or long-term sustainable. According to estimates, the Czech Republic is able to accommodate approximately 100,000 Ukrainian children in schools. However, these numbers are already being filled, if not exceeded. And, as I said before, the cost of roughly 100,000 children included in the school system is calculated to around CZK 17 billion this year. This year, the Department of Education manages 250 billion of the state budget. It is not yet clear where the additional funding will eventually come from. The new Lex Act of Ukraine allows schools to increase their capacity on the table. And now, according to the Minister of Education, it's time for directors and founders to be creative and transfer the spreadsheet numbers into practice. Professional classrooms become tribal classes, schools don't run into the ceiling of their capacities yet, but that can happen over the next few weeks. School founders are waiting for funding issues to be addressed because the inclusion of Ukrainian pupils is linked to certain wage and operating costs. And the county hasn't gotten an extra crown yet. Schools have the utmost effort to help, but they cannot take unlimited steps to reduce the quality of existing teaching. It is necessary to establish a strategy on how the situation in education will be dealt with further, whether in a long-term or temporary variant. Otherwise, schools will continue to improvise, solve the situation intuitively and spontaneously, and their admirable enthusiasm will gradually weaken. And not to mention the quality of teaching in crowded classes. Please come quickly to plan, solve and look for finance. We are happy to support everything that is needed, but you must finally start presenting conceptual and systemic proposals for solutions, otherwise the situation may turn into a long education crisis. To all educators and school directors, I would like to express my huge thanks and admiration for the self-sacrifice they are trying to deal with this difficult situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, ma'am. The next envoy is Mr Haas, and before that, I will apologize to Mr Bělor, from 18.30 to 19.30 today. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u110	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech, I will not go into controversy with colleagues who, I will say, have spoken here about agriculture, health, education. I'm focusing on the subject of today's negotiations. And the subject of today's meeting is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic under the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic to extend the period of emergency. This is the substance of the matter on which we should comment and which is the subject of our negotiations today. I would like to argue as a Member, I believe that, in turn, only factually and completely apolitically, and to make factually legal arguments for fellow Members. And I dare say, I will now shoot myself in my own ankle, as a district attorney to argue with the honorable constitutional lawyers who express themselves over the government's procedure, especially over the time at which the application is made, wonder and call it unconstitutional or illegal. So I will sum up purely legal arguments for which I do not consider the government's request unlawful. For some of these arguments, I'm just going to look at the evidence. The first argument is that it is necessary to realise what the structure of Article 6 (1) is. 2 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. The first sentence defines the institute of declaration of emergency and only this institute is associated with the maximum and precise number, the absolute number, set a period of 30 days. I stress this is really a number from the first sentence and it is associated with the institute of declaring an emergency state. The second sentence of the same provision, that is to say, Article 6 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 2 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic, the Institute provides for an extension of the emergency period. Today we are in this institute, and the constitutional law - I stress that it is a constitutional law of 1998, I am not an expert in the history of all Members, I think that none of us may have been here at the time, so I really look at the constitutional law of that time completely objectively - in my view, knowingly, with full discretion, as constitutional laws are even adopted, no specific time has been laid down for this institution to extend the emergency situation. That's the first argument. I acknowledge that this is an argument of the so-called grammatical interpretation of law, which, of course, is quite relevant. And it's really the first step, and I'm going to continue, too, to the conclusion that this is not an illegal or unconstitutional procedure. So really the sentence of the second Article 6 in which we are moving today doesn't build any precise absolute time. That doesn't mean that time isn't limited. That time is limited by two legal limits. It is limited by the limit, which concerns the whole Czech rule of law, that any act of law, which is undoubtedly also a request by the government to extend the period of emergency, must be sufficiently specific, or the limit of certainty. And by the second limit, I will then justify this to a really specific judicial body of the Constitutional Court - and here I am trying to respond to legitimate concerns expressed by some previous speakers that the government would find itself in a kind of vacuum, where it could ask for an extension of the emergency state to, say, an infinite period of time - is that even this act of government must not exceed Article 9 (1) of the Emergency Request. 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic. The article is also sufficiently obvious and applies to all acts of government of all public authorities. A change in the essential elements of the democratic rule of law is inadmissible. Of course, the assessment that would have exceeded Article 9 (2) of the Treaty. 2 Constitutions, that is, would be a substantial change in the merits of the democratic rule of law, it is, of course, difficult. Let's consider this on a case-by-case basis. However, that the time of 58 days, or the time specified by that precise date, by 31 May to 23.59, as stated in the Government's request to the House in today's House of Documents, would exceed the limit laid down in Article 9 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Two constitutions, I as a lawyer, it's my personal legal opinion, I have strong doubts. I certainly wouldn't hesitate if the government made a request that would satisfy the condition of certainty, but it would be filed for two years, five years, ten years, I deliberately said the other side of the coin, where it is obvious. But that the essential elements of the democratic rule of law would threaten the government's request to extend the emergency period by 58 days, so in my opinion, I did not, at least, as I studied the expression of all the honourable constitutional lawyers on Article 9, find no expression in this regard, so, in my view, the government's request does not go beyond that limit. The third argument I'm making here, and again some of my previous speakers here argued that, at the time of the covid, that is, say, last year and a piece, it was made up of those pending requests by the then or previous government to extend the emergency period of legal or constitutional custom or parliamentary practice. Again, I will try to comment on the fact that I do not believe that legal constitutional practices could be created within a year and a half. [[17.30 hours]] The reasons are as follows. The legal institute or the legal state of emergency exists in Czech law, rounding up, please do not catch me at the word, units of months 24 years since 1998. Twenty-four years, that's the first argument. Second argument. The Emergency Institute was not used in the Czech Republic only at the time of the covid. He was used in 2002 in the floods. It was used in 2006 in floods. It was used in 2013 in floods. So this is my second argument, for which I really almost warn here about creating a stable parliamentary good practice from a period of one and a half years or creating a constitutionally legal custom. I think that at an institute that lasts twenty-four years... to create a constitutional habit from its application in the last year and a half of its twenty-four years history, it seems to me to be a fairly legally dangerous thing, and it is the argument of a combination of the time that this institute is enshrined in the Czech legal order, of completely different situations, and of legitimate situations in which it has been used in accordance with the constitutional law or the security of the Czech Republic, in particular those flood conditions, at least three, perhaps even more, so I am very concerned about this from the annual practice of pandemics creating a constitutional custom. And I come to the penultimate argument when I once again respond to the views of the honourable fellow Members, whether the honourable constitutional lawyers say that the government is acting contrary to the Constitution. I'm gonna have to quote here in a moment from the caselaw. There are quite a comprehensive number of decisions of the Constitutional Court to the Institute of Emergency Situation. I agree that somebody might think that judicature practice has not yet been developed for the Institute of Emergency Extension, the established judicature practice concerns the state of the announcement or the Institute of Emergency Statement. But I'm gonna use the legal argument again. I suppose that even political opponents will agree with me that in law - and it is the old Roman rule passed even to modern times - there is a rule from bigger to smaller, or from smaller to larger. This is such a rule from which you will take it, that if, for the very start of the emergency situation, this institute, there are constitutional rules for declaring an emergency situation, whether laid down by law or resulting from the caselaw, I may not go beyond a reasonable limit as a lawyer, if I try to apply the caselaw relating to declaring an emergency situation to the debate, to the decision, to today's decision of our Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period. I will first sum up the legal conclusions that come from the sentences of the Constitutional Court for me as a lawyer and for me as a Member, and then I will allow myself to quote that one. First of all, from the Constitutional Court's case law - they are who you want to look it up, decisions, and I will certainly not say all of them, all of them are plenary, I stress, when you look for it according to the file mark, they are all plenary decisions of the Constitutional Court - 8/2020, 11/2020, 106/2020, 12/2021 and so on. And from these decisions - she is really consistent, there are a number of opposing statements, but those opposition statements relate rather to the challenges of some constitutional judges to the discretion of the Constitutional Court to express themselves on political issues - two specific points arise, in my view, two specific arguments, which I have already mentioned. Firstly, the constitutional review of the announcement itself - and I add to this: therefore, the extension of the state of legislative emergency, I stress, not the specific executive steps of the government that it will take in a state of legislative emergency, are subject to different rules of constitutional review - but the Chamber of Deputies is excluded from the constitutional review by the Constitutional Court for its extension, and the only body to which the political review of this Government's step belongs is the Chamber of Deputies. This is the first conclusion of the Constitutional Court, which will soon come out of the quote. As well as the Constitutional Court's decision, from the judicial series, implies - in addition to the other general rules of the type of certainty and so on - that the only limit in the executive decision of the government in the emergency regime is Article 9 (1) of the Act. 2 of the Constitution, that is to say, the government cannot change the essential elements of the rule of law by this executive step. That's where the Constitutional Court would intervene immediately. Now I'll take the quote, she's not long: The Government's declaration of emergency is primarily an act of application of constitutional law, constitutes an act of government that has normative impact, is not subject to the control of the Constitutional Court and is examined primarily by a democratically elected political dissenting body, which is the Chamber of Deputies. Unless the legislator provides an appropriate standard of judicial review - here the branch, nothing like that in the Czech legal order for an act of the government's decision to declare an emergency - lays down - in the form of special procedural rules, a traditional constitutional review of proportionality cannot be applied to the political decision on the emergency situation. The Government shall bear political responsibility for declaring an emergency situation, as it is responsible to the House, which may fulfil a supervisory function within the meaning of Article 5 (1) of the Treaty. 4 - I do not mind - constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. - So many quotes from the Constitutional Court's decision. She really is completely consistent, there was no ping-pong, for example, between the various Senate Constitutional Courts, all of which are plenary decisions. And the last argument, the last argument that I am making among those I am trying to convince at this moment, let's just say the opposition half of the hall that the government's step is not really illegal or unconstitutional, I regret that some strong statements today, but I will not name them, so the last argument is that the act of emergency or extension of emergency does not really exist - and who claims otherwise from the lawyers here, in my opinion, well knows that he is stating an argument irrelevant or incorrect - the act itself of declaring an emergency situation does not involve any interference with fundamental rights and freedoms. This is also apparent from the numerous case-law of the Constitutional Court. But please, even if we didn't have the Constitutional Court case-law on this, this obviously follows from the text of the law. What can intervene and what must be under the close supervision of each of us, under close public supervision, under the close supervision of judges, under the close supervision of independent media, are the specific steps that the entire complex of Czech crisis legislation gives to the government in the legal institute or at the time of the declared emergency state. Only these steps can interfere with the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And please, I have not heard from the previous speakers that any previous speaker would say that any particular step of the current government or step that is defined in the reference report, because it is stated there in accordance with the law, so it must be, which fundamental rights and freedoms the government assumes can be limited during the duration of the emergency, so none of the previous speakers here criticized any of those steps of specific executives, which are now being done during the emergency period from 3 March, or which the government is planning to do at that time to prolong the emergency situation. There have been really strong words here about the fact that today's act itself is limiting fundamental rights and freedoms. And that's really legal nonsense. Thank you very much. I suppose I didn't convince part of the opposition, part of the coalition, I suppose it will vote the way we will, but I wanted to put these factual, legal and hopefully non-political arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. First, President Schillerová and then rapporteur Nacher came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Haas, through the Vice-President, you have given a respectable performance. I wouldn't want to be in your role. I'm sure you're a great lawyer, and even though you're dealing with a different kind of law, but that's okay, you're a great lawyer, I've heard you several times. And there were even moments, even though I didn't say it out loud, that I was in touch with you. Not today. Not today. [[17.40 hours]] And I understand that someone here has to defend the professional part. Your role was unenviable at the moment. And I'm gonna try what I just got, what you did so fast, what I did so fast, I couldn't even make notes. I'm sure we agree that we can't have the law - you're younger than I am, so I guess, and I went through the Faculty of Law of Masaryk University in Brno, when in those years he learned such a positive style of searching in standard, which I think was long overdone, especially in the judicial activities of the Supreme Administrative Court, there some judges began to be enchanted by theological interpretation and interpretation after the meaning of the norm, but why not? Of course, there may be different opinions about this at times. That means that if we don't have it explicitly written there, of course, and that's what I think was based on the conclusion of a permanent commission in the Senate, which just... I read it here, I won't say it again. But the fact that it is not written there, they actually say, the government decides and can within 30 days and then goes before Parliament. He's not there again, that he can only do it again by 30 days. But from the point of view of the law, even our government never considered asking for a longer period than 30 days. And you quoted here... [[To a Member of Haas speaking with a colleague.]] Perhaps a colleague will always start to debate when I speak to someone, I apologise, through Madam President. [[Fun in the hall. Vice-President Havlíček is in charge of the meeting.]] Since I am speaking to the honourable Member, through the Vice-President, I apologise, Vice-President. They're taking turns so fast, I can't record it. And you quoted here the case law of the Constitutional Court, I believe, and you said, I remember, because it was actually about our government, that it was the supreme political decision of the government under Parliament's control. And that's exactly what it is. And that is the essence of democracy. We didn't argue that it wasn't explicitly written here. No one here from the previous speakers, at least me, if I was here, and I don't think I've pulled my heels out of this room except for a sanitary break, nobody said there was some kind of abuse or violation or restriction. This government, of course, is taking action within this legal framework and will continue to act after an extension of the emergency situation, no matter what happens. And we call for one thing: just after the parliamentary scrutiny. We say, and from the point of view, and supported us today, when we are having this debate, so today we were supported by the permanent committee, and a moment ago, you may have noticed - I will wait for my colleague to tell you this, through the Vice-President - and the President of the Senate just now supported it. That's a strong political message to the government coalition. Even the President of the Senate - the second highest constitutional figure. And we're talking more politically here than strictly legal. The fact that we've been there for 30 days, and we're not alone - I'm leaning again on constitutional lawyers, about experts in this area, because we know that every lawyer specializes in some area, about a permanent commission, about the Senate President, is actually in your party t-shirt, but I believe that he has acted with regard to the position he holds, and that's why he said so, it's a fresh report for about half an hour. And they all think - and we are not going to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has made it clear, it is a political matter, a political decision and should be subject to Parliament's assessment and control. And we say: listen to all these experts, use your hand, that we are ready to vote for those 30 days, do not divide society, do not raise other topics for debate. I just don't want to suspect you, despite everything that's happened here today, so I'm thinking, for God's sake, that you're not doing this because we want to vote for it, that maybe that's why you didn't say 58 even though I know you were thinking about 90, 58, because the YES movement wants to vote for 30. I'm sure you wouldn't have thought of that. That would be very stupid. It didn't even come out here to be fair. There have been other statements, I've already commented on them, I won't repeat myself. Bottom line, we didn't disagree that much. You're the one who tried to defend the fact that he's got 58 days of support. I think an independent court would have to say that. He's the only one who can interpret our legal standards. Otherwise it will be the opinion of a large group against a minority group. That's more or less clear today. And I think that this debate would be over, and it wouldn't be, and it wouldn't even burn, and we could be done today, and we could be doing other work because you're saying what you're doing. Government benches have been empty for a long time. Thank you, Mr. First Vice Prime Minister, for sitting here. [[at the news table]] He's alone. And we could have saved this debate. We could have had a few hours' vote. And it could have been here... What would be the problem? I still don't get it. The government would be given 30 days - Parliament's approval, Parliament's approval. And after 30 days, she'd just come back. She'd be smarter about experience, about what's going on, about numbers. We heard the Minister of Education say, "We don't know if there's gonna be that many children. I understand. We haven't heard a whole series of ministers. Minister of Health - I was very interested in this, many of my colleagues, Professor Adámková, Dr Mašek, through the Vice-President, everyone here has spoken. And we didn't get the answers because he's not here. It's on duty, as was said by Mr. First Vice Prime Minister, gone. This means that the debate was definitely factual today, certainly decent, that is without question. At least I speak for our club, and I stand by it. But she remained unanswered, and the aftertaste of the government coalition's probably overruled by the force. And the aftertaste will remain not only in us, we're used to it and we'll deal with it somehow, but especially in citizens and people that there's something wrong here, that there's just some disproportion, some discrepancy, some confusion - now I'm talking absolutely to citizens, I'm not talking to experts right now. I believe Professor Válková will fill me in. And it's completely, completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Another one with priority rights is Mr Nacher's registered rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I would also like to respond to my honored colleague Karel Haas, through you. I took honest notes. Firstly, we have said from the beginning that the 30-day extension of the emergency situation is only in the first sentence that it may not be longer than 30 days after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies, and then, while continuing, there is no more than 30 days. No one here said there was 30 either. But there's some implications of that being the case. If you look at the resolution of your fellow Members from the Senate, they're writing it completely pregnant, so I'm not gonna be making up anything original here. If the government's decision to extend the emergency situation on the basis of one consent granted was not bound by any deadline - that is how I get to what Karel Haas said, who said there wasn't a two-month limit, but if it were two years, it would have been over the limit, as he said, then at that point I would have asked, what is the limit? It hasn't been two months, but it has been two years. A year, yes or no? So by the end of the year, would that be beyond the limit, or wouldn't it be? By not being determined, who would be the one to determine what the limit is? Would it be six months, a year, two years? I'm kind of curious about that. Furthermore, they continue to say that at that point it may take years to abolish the Government or the Chamber of Deputies, even without further parliamentary discussion, because the political link between the government and the majority in the Chamber of Deputies involves the risk of blocking negotiations on proposals for the abolition of emergency conditions, the more so that, with a single use of this institute on 18 February, there was no vote on the agenda at all. That's the conclusion of your senators. [[17.50 hours]] I understand what my colleague Karel Haas said that the term wasn't exactly there, the 30 days, but I think the logic is that the implications are there. And it reminded me, my colleague, through Mr President, of a very similar positive interpretation of the Graceful Summer, of our favourite, where one bailiff did not end his execution because he did not pay the debt due, but some donor, and in that law it is written that he would pay, thus literally that it must be mandatory, but if someone else did, it would not fall there at that time. It's kind of the all-legal positivism that is then inoperable in real life. I did the job of talking about it here, that it can't be in the last two years or there can't be a correlation in the last two years. And if you look at history, it's in the last twenty years because the floods in 2002, so there, if I have the information right, the emergency took 20 days, in 2006 18 days, orkán in the year - now I don't know, I didn't write a year - 12 days and a flood in 2013 28 days. That means he's never climbed the emergency for 30 days. Never. That means it's been in the last 20 years, not in the last two years. When it comes to what we're talking about here, and we keep saying it over and over again, it's nothing more than that special measure and an emergency act like this is completely indisputable, so that he doesn't just raise these questions - it's, it's not, depends on the legal perspective, two lawyers will have three different opinions about it. And I think we can - we should never afford it, but we can theoretically afford it under normal laws. In an emergency, it's very, very risky for me. And the last point, I wrote them honestly - a restriction on rights. I think, and I'm sitting here with little exceptions, no one said that today's vote restricts the rights. What we are saying is that there is a legal framework that will then allow the government to take those measures. But then it will be too late from the opposition, and there is nothing we can do about it, because the individual measures, my colleague, are no longer the subject of this debate here in the Chamber of Deputies and some concrete vote. That's today, though it is true that there is no restriction at this time. So many brief notes, just like I wrote down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u115	Well, thank you, and we can continue the debate. Another enrollment is Mr Novák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I have to say, after my three predecessors, that I didn't come to the legal war, I didn't come to discuss whether I was judging or not, or whether the citizens who were addressing me were judging or judging or not judging the emergency situation based on whether it was legally correct or not, but whether they were afraid or believing whether or not it would affect them. That's why I came here because, of course, it's not happy for anyone, it's not happy for anyone what's happened, no one's happy that there's been a tragedy in Ukraine and that Russia's aggression, that we have a migration wave, that we already have almost 250,000 people here to take care of. No one denies that. We definitely want to help them, and we all want to help them. But to give a blank check for three months... Why? I think if we could think of the time as covid, how they were or weren't dug up ankles not in three months, but in 30 days... How dare the government for 30 days? No, 14! And in two weeks, you'll come and tell us what you've done, what's new, what you've ruined, what we can throw at you again. I'm sorry, but that's how it was, and it needs to be recalled here. Plus, it also needs to be said that back then we were in a situation where we didn't know how the pandemic would behave, how many people would really fight it, how many mutations would come. And today we have more and more mutations, but, of course, the war in Ukraine killed covid, it's not anymore. We're dealing with a situation of similar magnitude today. So far, with quite predictable progress, unfortunately, an unpredictable end. Therefore, the government of this country, which accounts not only for its citizens during the elections but also for the permanent and permanent Chamber of Deputies, should be asking for extraordinary measures for compelling reasons and, of course, in really extraordinary situations. And I agree, yes, this is an extraordinary situation. I don't want to downplay it, and I don't want it to come out that way that I'm making it down to the state that it is right now. I'm not saying we shouldn't help. But I still haven't heard a valid reason here to convince me to give the current government a three-month blank check. Minister Rakušan recently announced at the Ministry's press conference that the previous government had abused the emergency situation and made the verbal connection an emergency state offensive. I say that I have reasonable concerns that the government of Petr Fiala has lost all confidence in me after this statement, and I cannot support this request after such statements. I will also not support it after hearing the President of the House of Pekarová on Czech Television. According to her, a three-month emergency situation is needed in order not to be unnecessarily addressed in the House and in Members, whose work is also government control, in fact, they did not talk to the government to work unnecessarily. And for me, I'm sorry, not like this. But I'm glad you're being honest and you're gonna say it on the record so we know what you mean. We are witnessing today an absolutely great response from our fellow citizens. Those as good stewards, parents, and relatives are well aware of the situation they may face. People are helping, and we need to thank them for that. They help without being forced into it, and they need to be thanked for that. We're here often in our own bubble. Therefore, please listen to our citizens and understand them. It's okay for the mayors of the village, the chieftains, and eventually the government to help. However, I am no longer sure that the government is acting as a proper caretaker, that it not only takes care of all the necessary, but also treats the funds properly. Of course, the wave of solidarity and support is the driving force to address the runaway crisis without fail. We'll all be happy to humble ourselves. No matter what. Because it's our conscience that's in charge. Not government lectures on how a citizen is supposed to help, what he can, and not say what's wrong, how much a citizen has to bend. I ask again, who cares about this citizen of ours today? You want to deal with this in the government tomorrow. How many times? We have put forward proposals. Proposals even introduced by the surrounding states. You killed them without argument, without even allowing discussion. You killed them because the opposition suggested them. If they help our people, you don't care. [[18.00 hours]] Remember, it is necessary to help our people so that they themselves can help others in this very crisis. Today, we are dealing with the growth of food prices in the tens of percent, we are dealing with the energy crisis. And all of this must be dealt with by our citizens now and on their own. We have a government here that has sworn to represent our interests. We want to help anyone in need, but we must be able to help ourselves. You divide society with your attitude. We certainly don't. Ladies and gentlemen, this extraordinary situation shows that it is possible to do so when you want to do so. Six months ago, no one would have believed how many vacant apartments are available today for Ukrainian refugees. And that's good. I'm sorry they weren't available, for example, six months ago for young families. The state is releasing a huge amount of money, and that's a good thing. I am glad that you may be more handy than the previous government, but do not forget that you will be folding accounts at the end as well. Why don't you address the energy crisis and price growth in this way? Why do you not support our Czech producers in the same way so that they do not have to project rising commodity prices into their products? Where's the VAT job? Why don't you put energy and fuel prices on the table for a certain period of time? You're not just making life more expensive for our citizens. You're making life even more expensive for those refugees who will live here. And we still don't know how long. The Czech citizen will be happy to help, but not on the basis of someone ordering him to do so, and also in a situation where he has to do his own job. The current approach of two crises, and this is a crisis of refugee and, in addition to it, an energy crisis, reminds me in many ways of this government's football match product within six years. The ball is flying, rolling, and all 12 small players are running after it. And God forbid a plane will fly over the field during a game. For they all stop, they look at them, they look at him, they wave to him, they all look at him. Now the Czech citizen is drawing his sight to you too, Dear Government. Yes, we must address the effects of the war in Ukraine, we must address the refugee crisis. We must help, but we must not forget the people who live here. Therefore, I call on you to deal equally intensively with the effects of energy price growth, the effects of fuel price increases, the effects of rising inflation and the rise in food prices. Not after. Now! If you don't, people are in danger of running out of money and being more dependent on state support. Eventually, they meet in a queue with those who initially supported and wanted to help them. And you don't want that. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority in this House will sprain its parliamentary pledge and vote on power again whatever it may be, regardless of the impact on our Republic, regardless of its citizens. Whoever raises his hand for a three-month emergency today gambles. He gambles with social reconciliation, gambles with the understanding of ordinary people and gambles with relative peace in our country. Personally, I'm not gonna take this on my conscience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'd like another enlistment, Mrs. Peštová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I do not have a pre-printed or printed speech, I have more of a comment on what I would like to comment on. Unfortunately, there are no factual remarks, and I'm not saying that I'm an expert, but I'm really enjoying them. In any case, I have to react with a delay, and it no longer has the magic, so I would like to respond to Mr Kučera, who is no longer here, but maybe he will hear it because everyone has TVs on and listens. I would like to comment on his performance, where he verbally unfortunately assaulted my colleague Margit Balaštíková. I'm glad you've finally heard the signals and started analyzing when almost everyone's starting to collapse here in this state. I mean not only the industry, but also the farmers that Mrs Margit Balaštíková mentioned here, through the President. So I hope you come to something and have a solution. In any case, I know the lady very well, and I know that she is preparing all her own speeches, she is honest. And I have to say, her speeches are very interesting, and her speech is interesting, so it has a head and a heel. On the other hand, Mr Kučera's speeches at times I do not know what he is saying. But unfortunately, not everyone has the gift of a word. But that's more like just the edge of explaining what's been said here. I listened carefully at the beginning of the gunfight that was here. I didn't really want to perform at all, but when I saw that a lot of Members weren't talking at all, that's why the emergency is getting longer, I wondered why I wouldn't get out and say what I think or what should be heard here. And my contribution, or rather, my post, concerns the carriers. That's what was mentioned here. Whoever lies doesn't lie, who tells the truth, doesn't tell the truth. Anyway, I like it. And since this is where the ruling coalition was called upon to tell each other the truth, I'd quite like to hear the truth from you. And those are the measures you want to take. This means abolishing the incorporation of biofuels. What exactly is this supposed to bring to the carriers? So how much will their fuel cost go down? I say nothing. Nothing. The carriers will continue to apply what is true because they have correctly identified that fuel suppliers must reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is the transposition, by 6 per cent per year, which means that if you cancel Section 19 in the Act on Air, populistly, nothing will happen at all. The price stays the same. You're predicting that it's going to go down by a crown. No, he's not going down on anything. And the problem will be when these people arrive at the pumps, and I don't mean just the carrier, but even the ordinary people will come to the pumps and expect the price to be two crowns lower. And she won't be. It won't. That's one thing I wonder why, if we're gonna tell these people the truth, why we're lying to them. Another thing I'm interested in, of course, is addressing the carriers to the government. [[A look at the government bench. Secretary Langshadlová is present.]] I was scared there wasn't one of the ministers. I'm sorry. The next thing I care about, of course, I'm going back to those carriers again, I'm not going to talk about the fact that these people are going to be affected, they've addressed both the government, I mean both the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister, and they're really in a critical situation right now. The price of fuel is rising, they obviously have some business contracted, and of course they have it contracted at a price that no longer corresponds to the reality. [[18.10 hours]] We need to realise that to survive such carriers, they have to travel almost 8,000 kilometres a month to really make the costs associated with it so that they can rent it. I have prepared such a beautiful model of a medium company, which is currently in the Czech Republic, which has 30 cars over 12 tons, has 21 vehicles 3.5 to 12 tons and 30 vehicles up to 3.5 tons, with the fact that what the government has prepared means that it has guaranteed, which will probably also have to make an amendment to the law that it will forgive the road tax for cars up to 3.5 tons, so it does not solve their problem. Because if we calculate the annual cost of this company, they're going to save them about 230,000. But the oil, which has gradually and draconically increased, gives them annual costs of 18 144,000. So, basically, the government laughed at the carriers. And I wonder what you're going to do for this sector. I'm saying the agricultural sector has been mentioned here, and now the transport sector is mentioned here, and we're talking about the transport that has it as its business. Then we have transport, which, of course, will hit the regions and the municipalities. I can already see that Mr Kučera, through Mr President, has returned, and he will certainly confirm that the Ústí Region will also face major problems and that he has already calculated how much it will cost to increase the fuel already mentioned, which has increased, and I think that I will not be far, if I say maybe 100 million, it may be even more. And I'd like to know what the government will do. Because the government will declare an emergency, but there are no precautions. This is what the government did before, for which it was then, of course, dehonested, that the measures were chaotic, or, on the contrary, few or many, but in any case, the measures were. And on the basis of these measures, the money went to the different sectors and regions. And now the measures aren't, so those regions have to pay for it from their own. How long will the county pay for this? How long will it last to pay out of its own way? How long will he last to pay from his government? Those are questions that no one has answered yet, and I don't want to say that I'm going to be against and protestively against this emergency situation, and I want to hear the answers. The answers I don't want to hear, not just me, but the carriers. And I'd like someone to answer me here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u119	děkovat you, Madame, and Vice-President Kučera has signed up with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u120	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I've been approached here by Mrs Peštová, so it's such a good habit that when we address someone in that speech, he usually gets off, so I'd just try to react a little bit. I would normally speak with that technical remark, unfortunately it is not possible at today's meeting, and he explained a little bit about the maybe not quite happy statement about the reading speeches. I remember this time when it was said that anyone who didn't say a speech out of their head shouldn't perform. That was once, however, my colleague Nacher explained to me that it was no longer true, that even the readings were completely standard. I'm sorry, I haven't been here in the last parliamentary term, so I'm out of the intermission. If the reading speeches, the long reading speeches, are normally accepted, I apologize to this colleague, Mrs Balaštíková, that I said she was reading the speech. On the other hand, I understand that if the speech is longer, there are things that need to be mentioned specifically or precisely, and it is better to write it down. The speech, of course, which is from the head, is probably more immediate, but the reading speech is more accurate, more exact. So it's just me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And the next party to the debate is Mr Sadovský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to start by saying that we will support the emergency for 30 days, and we have said this more clearly. But it has other connections. On Sunday's Party, the President of the House explained that the government should not care about people. I don't know, and I don't want to presume if she wanted to tell us the ideology of this government, but I completely disagree. Not to mention that she became more or less a military analyst when she told us that even the troops would not stop at the border of Ukraine. An hour later, the Prime Minister at Mr Moravec told us, at least 20 times, that we were at war. He said it 20 times. A colleague of the Excellent said today, through Mr President, that we are not at war. Perhaps the government should ask its Members, too, and they would explain it to her. First things first. First thing I'd like to say is stop haunting our people! We're not at war. We're not really in any war. There's a refugee crisis and there's an energy crisis. Once again, we're not at war! I understand that an emergency is needed. He's needed, and we'll support him. It's been 30 days, and we don't have a problem with that. If necessary, we will support another 30 days. We just know it's important, and we don't want to put the sticks under your feet, we don't want to do what the opposition did here in the last parliamentary term. It is necessary to see what the migration crisis is like here, to have a strategy prepared. We asked Minister Rakušan for the Security Committee to prepare a strategy for all departments at his request on 31 March. March 31st, I'm guessing two days from now. Let's see what he comes up with. And whether it is a question of security, whether it be accommodation, social area, health, education, it is necessary to present the strategy both short-term and medium-term. Yes, the problem is that the law does not explicitly mention that the emergency situation must be 30 days, but as today issued by the Senate Permanent Commission on Constitutional Affairs and Parliamentary Procedures in the introduction, that corresponding interpretation of Articles 5 and 6 of Constitutional Law No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, as amended by constitutional laws, considers one that limits the extension of the emergency state to a maximum period of 30 days, mainly for reasons (a), (b), (c), (d). I think you all have this resolution, and I think it's mostly your senators who are there. Listen to them and really support them for those 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Another party to the debate is Mrs Válková. I merely point out that in the debate, the Member may speak twice as much as possible. It is, Madame, your second performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It would be a point of fact, it wouldn't be a performance if I could. I can't, so I'll be really brief. I merely wanted to draw your Haas to the fact that if I did not express myself correctly, I would rather repeat it. The wider space allows, of course, as opposed to the 30-day one, which is what I would be talking about, which is why I would warn, as I said, the Prime Minister, if I were in that position as an agent, but I'm doing it this way on a microphone, so it doesn't really matter, it creates a much bigger space, and the longer the time goes, the more the frequency of these interventions and restrictions increases. Therefore, I am not quite 100% sure as the Member, that everything through the optics of constitutionality will eventually pass from the point of view of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Just because we're not talking about it right now, and we're just focusing on the moment doesn't mean we won't talk about it another time. And I'm afraid there's going to be a misvote here. I'd be very surprised if it didn't happen. We will, of course, remind you of that, that is also clear to you. [[18.20 hours]] And I'm just pointing out once more, for the last time in this place, that it's just a dangerous precedent. I was saying, it's a balance on the border, I don't think, unlike maybe other colleagues, maybe it's also non-tactical, what I'm going to say right now, it would be unconstitutional, but it's really on the edge, and you're introducing the possibility of opening this space of time. And as Mr Nacher said here, there is an ad absurdum where your border is. When will it be? Five months, a year, two years? He said that very nicely. I didn't hear the answer. I suppose I'll hear it again. But in this troubled time, it really is not a happy step, and I am sorry, just as the President of our parliamentary club, Mrs Alenka Schillerová, has said so, by your means, Mr Vice-President, at this time, we really should talk about other things. So, of course, I'm quitting, and I'm assuming that here and again, maybe some of that word will fall on fertile soil and you'll consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Madame. The next enrollment is Mrs Fischerová. And in the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mr Flek apologizes between 18 and midnight, Minister Gazdík apologises between 17.45 and 19.30 for work reasons, as well as from work it was Mr Flek, and Mrs Voborská apologises from 18 hours for work reasons. And, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u126	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The extension of the emergency situation by more than 30 days is problematic from my point of view. We do not have sufficient information on how the government will deal with problems in the field of education and childcare during this period. Many of them show up gradually and it is important that the government regularly approach the House and discuss these issues with us. For example, I see difficulties in placing children in kindergartens. In part, it has already been pointed out by President Schillerová. A large part of Czech families already have problems finding a place for their children in kindergartens and from my point of view it is still not clear how they will create places for children from Ukraine. There was an increase in kindergarten expenses. However, it is not clear how we will find enough kindergarten teachers who will be qualified and willing to work in kindergartens and take care of children. Another problem that really needs to be addressed with education is the protection of the health of Ukrainian and Czech children. As we know, there is a slightly different vaccination scheme in Ukraine than in the Czech Republic. Although Ukrainian children are covered, as Minister Gazdík mentioned here, the same conditions apply to Czech children. However, for children who are already in primary school, we do not have an effective tool to determine whether these children are vaccinated. In contrast to kindergartens, primary schools do not normally control vaccinations. These are all the problems we need to prepare for. It is necessary to ensure decent conditions for the education and education of Ukrainian children, but it cannot be at the expense of the availability of these services to Czech children. I hear a lot of words here, but there are no concrete steps between them how we want to do it. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I think that it would not only be good but above all appropriate and decent if we had a further request from the government after 30 days to extend the emergency situation, in which the government would summarize how it dealt with these problems. This should give us an opportunity to analyse and respond to new problems that may yet arise and will have to be addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, Madame. And I am still specifying Mr Flek's apology, which is not from 6:00 p.m., but from 7:00 p.m. to midnight. And now, please, another performer, and this is Mr Mašek. Again, I warn you that he can only have two performances, so this is the other one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u128	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, colleagues, colleagues. I announced on my first speech that I would perform once more, with the motion for an accompanying resolution. Please allow me to read this accompanying resolution. He's got three points. First point. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a comprehensive migration plan by 31. 3. 2022. This item is presented in accordance with the resolution of the Security Committee of 10. 3. 2022, where it was approved. Second point. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take intensive diplomatic action in order to quickly end the war conflict in Ukraine. This item is also presented in accordance with the resolution of the Security Committee of 10. 3. where it was also approved. And the third point. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a list of all public contracts, where the government will use emergency conditions to purchase without tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask another one who's signed up for the debate. Madam President was here, she's downloading. Neither does the rapporteur. And Mr. Haas. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u130	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. For the second and last time in today's debate. I only applied because in today's debate it is not possible to be factual and some questions were addressed to me by my colleagues, so I would find it incorrect to escape from these questions and not answer them, that is the only reason I think I could fit in time into the actual one. There was a question about me, as I imagined in my interpretation, when in that really sentence of the second I do not see an explicitly precisely defined number or date defined deadline, as I imagined in Parliament's control. Well, the creators of the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic from 1998 set that check by two rules. And so let's just say, that's how it is. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 is the option of the Chamber of Deputies - and this has nothing to do with the majority in the Chamber of Deputies - that is a legal step - has the right to abolish the House of Deputies at any time. That's the first, the stronger insurance policy, so the constitutionalists set it up in 1998. And the second, let's say, order insurance, is, of course, the government's information duty to the Chamber of Deputies to declare an emergency. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The second remark, or the second question that was addressed to me, concerned whether I really did not see Article 6 (2) in the second sentence. Two holes in the law? And here I am - I don't see her. I can't see. In my opinion, it was the will of the constitutionalist that he did not give the explicit number until the emergency was extended, and in the meantime I sought out not only the individual opinion of Haasův, so I looked up here in the parliamentary library two of the most respected comments on the constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic. These are both comments from Wolters Kluwer, one of 2015, one of 2019. The author's team...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u131	I will interrupt you, Mr Member, I apologise, but I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues in the hall to keep their voice down so that, first, the Member has enough room and peace to present what he wants and that others also hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u132	It is a collective of authors around the President of the Constitutional Court Pavel Rychetský, judge of the Supreme Administrative Court Tomáš Langášek, the current President of the ÚOHS Petr Mlsna and so on. That means one more respected author next to the other. And I'll take two short quotes. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 seems indisputable and uncomplicated. - One quote. Second quote: As far as the time limit is concerned, there are no interpretation questions raised here and, according to the text of the constitutional law, the definition must be sufficiently precise... and it goes on. In other words, many times more honorable lawyers than Haas and Haas's ordinary lawyer confirm in the comments issued on the constitutional law of the Czech Republic that there is a gap in law in Article 6 (1). 2 really isn't. [[18.30 hours]] And the third question that was directed at me was where this Haas pictured the exact number line, the limit, when the announcement of the state or extension of the state, the emergency state, will be over the line, over the limit resulting from Article 9 (1). 2 Constitutions, which means breaching the essentials of the democratic rule of law? Now I'm not gonna run away from that question either, but I'm gonna answer you later. I don't know where the number is. I don't know her today. I have just expressed my opinion here and I have given some examples here that the number 58 days, she is expressed in the government's request by 31 May to 23.59, she does not exceed that limit, I have expressed my opinion, and I have expressed here a second of some boundary values of the year, two or similar values which, in my opinion, would also exceed that limit. But what I'm going to fight for here in my answer, for God's sake, is that we don't call for a case law that, in every single provision, must have absolute numerical value. We are moving in the area of constitutional law, and I believe that, in turn, most colleagues will confirm that, for example, the Czech Constitution as well as a number of other constitutional laws that form constitutional order together, it does not work with the kauistic, explicit periods of time, whether it is time or time. That's everything from me today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, too. Have a good evening, colleagues. Mr Vondráček is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, each Member may speak twice under this regime § 109m. I would like to use the second performance to thank the coalition for not restricting speaking time to five minutes. A little bit of my clean feeling of gratitude is that you may have a bad conscience, that you propose 58 days, and so you move a little bit behind the edge of the law, but thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u135	Thank you, too, and now with an application with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Pirates Michálek Club. I'm trying to figure out if he's using too much, but he's not using, he can still talk. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u136	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when I stood here a few years ago for the covid, the problem was that the situation changed from one day to the next, and we all know how many people were killed at the time and what the problem was and why the Chamber of Deputies had to deal with it, and they had to deal with it very regularly and always after the circus 30 days, while now the situation is under control. I think the government is doing a very good job, it's got a plan, we're getting regular reports here, it's not chaos. So if we think about the cops, the firefighters, the mayors and a bunch of others who need accurate, at least an estimate of what kind of mode they're gonna be operating in the next few days, I think we should make it available to them. We don't want them to think about not knowing what's next in a week and waiting for us here in the Chamber of Deputies to argue again. We need this emergency situation so that the government can act on action, and now we even have an estimate of how much time it needs, and I think it would be reasonable to accommodate the government. If there is any problem, if there is any failure, then anyone has the opportunity to call for action on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to abolish the emergency situation. As for the legal interpretation that has been made here, it is indeed - even from Professor Kysela - the interpretation, if we are strictly in the limits of constitutional law, not in the limits of politics, that is an extensive, very extensive one. We have written in the Security Act that an emergency can be declared for a maximum period of 30 days, the period may be extended only after the prior consent of the Chamber of Deputies. So it's clear that the constitutionalist was counting on the time to extend over 30 days. There is basically no doubt in terms of language, and if anyone wishes it to be written differently, it is legitimate, but it is political on the level, it is no longer legal on the level. If, of course, these interpretations, these subjective interpretations, for some kind of binding interpretation, we get into a situation where constitutional lawyers will then stretch out and stretch out the interpretation, it will no longer be credible. So please, let's not mix this debate with what's legal and what's appropriate. I fully respect the view that has been expressed here that some colleagues would like the time to be shorter, that is perfectly fine, but I think there is no legal problem. I would just like to say to colleagues who were not here in the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, that it really was not constitutional practice, that we would see it as a constitutional custom, that the emergency situation can only be extended to 30 days. The situation was that the government could not handle it, the situation was constantly changing, but especially here was a Communist party that supported the minority government and which had no support in the government, and the Communists simply wanted to be important, enjoyed their importance, and therefore they actually wanted it to always return to the Chamber of Deputies to keep control of it, because, of course, at that time, the negative sentiment that was associated with it, with the limitations when it could not be dealt with, when there were a lot of different bans and the like, the pandemic emergency situation. However, this is not the case, it is a completely different situation and we should approach it accordingly. Of course, if the constitutionalist knew what the exact limit was, how the emergency could be prolonged, he would have written it into the Security Act. But since it wasn't written by the constitutionalist either, but he was counting on every ad hoc situation to be assessed, I don't think it's entirely fair for us here to ask for an interpretation that would still have to be provided by the Constitutional Court if there had been any dispute. So I'm gonna follow up on Mr. Pre-Speaker here. We believe that this extension of the time, as proposed by the government, is entirely within the limits of what the constitutional law on security allows. It certainly doesn't go beyond the rule of law. Of course, if a government had the idea that it would extend indefinitely, it could be very negative and we would approach it differently, but this proposal is reasonable and is still within the limits that are constitutionally acceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u137	Thank you, too. Now I don't see any more enrolled in the debate. And so it is, Prime Minister Výborný. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Have a nice evening. Dear Government, Colleagues, I would like to read only the resolution on today's item of the extraordinary meeting in this text: The Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 23 March 2022, agrees to extend the emergency period until 31 May 2022, 23.59, issued by the Government Resolution of 2 March 2022, number 147 on declaring an emergency situation for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic, which was declared under number 43/2022 Coll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u139	I also thank and ask, Mr President, that you also pass this resolution on to the rapporteur and that we have them here on the control desk. Now she has claimed the priority right of President Schillerová, and then I'm registering another enrollment. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u140	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I won't be here much longer. I will not respond to President Michálek because he has not been here all day, and if he had been here, he would have known that we had a very constructive and highly qualified debate with Mr Haas, Professor Válková and so on. That's what the arguments were all about, so we'd be moving back a few hours. Perhaps next time it is good to be here, Mr President, through Madam President. I have a counterproposal. I think it is logical that this is expected in the wake of what is being said here by the members of the ANO movement. We believe that such a sensitive thing as an emergency situation should not be based on any already different legal interpretations. We said here it's just as political. I would therefore like to make a counter-proposal for the proposal made here by President Výborný: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period by 30 days. And I ask that he be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u141	Thank you, too, and we will also ask you to submit this proposal to the rapporteur. Mr. Speaker, Minister of the Interior of Austrian, is now registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I am now applying to the counterproposal in paragraph 1 of Mr Mašek's accompanying resolution. In advance, we have adopted paragraphs 2 and 3 of the accompanying resolution by my colleague, we have no problem with them and they will have our support. In point 1 I give a counterproposition: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a strategic document on the management of the refugee wave to 14. 4. 2022, which means Easter. I'll explain why. The strategic document itself is actually being created. I will now present the first part of it to the Security Committee, where I am bound by a resolution, and I will actually do so on Thursday, it is the resolution of the Security Committee, and I will actually present our plan, as promised, on the Security Committee, first of all, for the interior, in shell and in other areas. This concerns the area of security, it concerns the resolution given by the Security Committee. This will now be and should be the resolution of the entire Chamber of Deputies. We are working within a strategic government group on a comprehensive document, which for some areas is almost before completion, and its completion and handover in such a form that it can be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, we ask for Easter. It's quite simple, but the strategy itself, of course, comes from the beginning, it's nothing the government wouldn't be working on, and now it needs to do it for 14 days. However, if this is to be not a shallow report, but a real strategic document, the government is asking the Chamber of Deputies for a binding deadline of 14. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u143	Thank you, too. I'm still registering Prime Minister Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u144	Thank you for the floor. Given that this proposal by the Vice-President of the Government of Rakušan concerns strategic steps, i.e. actually heading for the future, I think that we should be given, as the Chamber of Deputies, information about what steps have been taken in the context of the emergency situation, and within the framework of which I would like to propose a further accompanying resolution, which would be: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to report to the Chamber of Deputies on the emergency measures taken within 30 days of the adoption of this resolution. So if anyone has any concerns about the extensive use of the emergency situation in particular, they will be able to get acquainted with the measures that are there. It's actually similar to the regime we had under the pandemic when we received quarterly reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u145	I also thank you, and I will also ask you, Mr President, to pass on this proposal to the rapporteur. I am no longer seeing anyone enrolled in the debate, and since there really is no other logged in, I am ending the debate. Now I will ask for the final words, if there is any interest. So first, the Minister. Or the rapporteur? Yes, you'll both be interested, but the Minister will speak first, okay. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u146	Thank you. We took priority with the rapporteur, and I gave him a moment to leave the O.R. after a long 12 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues, my fellow ministers, Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to thank you for the long debate that has been held on a very substantive level in most of the contributions, a material tone, for which, of course, I would like to thank. I think we had a few political screams in those morning hours, and then we managed to discuss the emergency situation as such. What I want to thank everyone for is that we perceive the seriousness of the situation. I would like to thank you for seeing that the situation we are experiencing now is unprecedented, and the overwhelming majority of you have also been able to perceive that it is in line with the current situation that the Czech Republic requires an emergency situation for the proper management of this crisis. I'm very glad we have this elementary match. What we don't agree on anymore is the view, and now I'm not talking about the legal level that the lawyers here have discussed, which I am not, but whether two months of emergency are power or not, whether there is any difference between the emergency situation of the covid and this. I dare say it exists, and distinct. Because the covid situation, the way we experienced it, it was a disease, it had some curve, and it actually changed in weeks. In one month, the epidemic situation was completely different and different than it was a month ago. In the case of a migration wave of this magnitude, where there is still a war going on, where new migration flows are still coming into Europe, it cannot be predicted that we would need, in two months' time, or in those two months, we needed significantly different emergency measures than we need now. Of course, we all hope and wish that the war conflict as such would end, but we want to create for the end of May, which is a compromise proposal, the original proposal that appeared on the government was three months, we heard the opposition proposal for 30 days, and we came up with a compromise proposal by the end of May, i.e. 58 days, and we dare say that there is a difference in this draft emergency situation especially in the fact that really, which we have all convinced ourselves, did not intervene at this time in the lives of people in the Czech Republic, did not restrict their rights, and if we did not give this media attention, the citizens of the Czech Republic would certainly notice that there is a huge migration wave, but few of the citizens of the Czech Republic would notice the quality of their lives that there is an emergency situation in the Czech Republic at that time. We've had some specific questions here. We had questions about strategy, it was answered a moment ago, the strategic document is very diligent, and it is not just an inter-ministerial strategic team, it is also created with the help of external collaborators, who, for example, are helping the Polish Government at present, helped in several previous migration crises in Europe. I dare say that the Czech Government has received real experts who have an external perspective on the most strategic things that await the Czech Republic. It is the adaptation of the school education system, the adaptation of the health system, the adaptation of social care and at the same time the motivation of people who came to the Czech Republic to their own economic activity, so that they do not rely solely on some safety net of our social system, which, as has been said many times, is also limited to only six months in the form of the benefit granted to them. At the same time, we say from the beginning, and I say once again about all the objections that have fallen here that citizens coming from Ukraine are given temporary protection, a European instrument that applies here for one year, until 31. 3. next year, it is no substitute for any long-term residence visa, on the contrary, this instrument is clearly limited and is clearly linked to the ongoing war that is currently being waged against Ukraine by the Russian aggressor. At the same time, I would like to answer a few colleagues. I was asked by my colleague Ryba about a resolution that was directly for the captains, using best practice, which, by a similar procedure, included accommodation capacities at the time of the covid. This procedure leaves the flexibility of decision-making on a specific approach to the local level, i.e. to the level of the governor and the ORP, and ensures that the procedure respects the will of the authorities. It will ultimately be self-government, which will implement really all the regulations that come from the government level. They will focus on adapting the arrivals to life in the Czech Republic, for them was created the grant title of the Ministry of the Interior 300 million crowns, which is currently dealing with the adaptation of the arrivals to life in the Czech Republic. By the way, it is also paid for by the opposition of the mentioned language courses, to a large extent at municipal level, because we perceive that the knowledge of the language is a ticket to the professions, say higher quality, if it corresponds to the education of the incoming, and of course to the Czech schools. [[18.50 hours]] I was quoted here from my statement last year when I supported an emergency for about 18 days. I'm glad my colleague Ryba picked a fair quote. Because I had a rational approach, and I really supported the emergency for 18 days. But we gave the 18 days just as a limit to assessing whether the pandemic situation in the Czech Republic had evolved in some entirely different direction, whether the situation would improve. With this migration crisis with all the hope that the flows of migrants will slowly be weaker and weaker over the next few months, it is hope, not certainty, I dare say that we need two months to adapt all the Czech systems to manage the refugee wave. This is also adapted to the emergency period, as we ask the Chamber of Deputies to do. At the same time, I would like to say that the government itself also hears the municipal level. We're not in any material dispute with the captains. Today, at our regular meeting at 11 o'clock, they supported the government's proposal to declare an emergency until the end of May, because for them this instrument may be even more important in their day-to-day operation and crisis management than for central authorities as such. We will proceed in our vote on the proposal of Mr Mašek in the accompanying resolution, so that the government is in control and hand over to the Chamber of Deputies to control all public contracts that will take place in an emergency state, so as to ensure transparency and certainty that the government is still in an economic position with the public funds entrusted. We welcome this resolution because the Government of the Czech Republic certainly does not intend to use the emergency situation in any way for anything unfair. It is only a good thing that the House will have its legitimate and legitimate control over the government in this. At the same time, issues were also discussed concerning the differences between access to the covid of the current government and access to the emergency situation related to the refugee wave. The government has been repeatedly called upon to work for Czech citizens and not just for refugees. I have to say from the beginning, and clearly - and this will bring me closer to the end of my final word - that this is simply not the case. And that the government is trying effectively from the first minute to cope with a large-scale migration crisis that this government has not invented, but it must at that moment ensure that the migration wave has as little impact as possible for the Czech people as possible, as little burden on the various systems to guarantee the highest possible security for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Here we have been called upon several times to present a strategy and so on. We'll definitely do it. We will be committed to this by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and we think that it is necessary to work with the data that a medium- and long-term strategy must be made to address this huge challenge and perhaps the opportunities facing the Czech Republic. But at the same time, I would like to point out that we have had a month of migration waves. The Czech Republic has created an excellent registration system. Thanks to the captains, mayors, and local levels, she has created a great system of how to take care of the refugees who are coming here. We do not have people without a roof over our heads, we have information about who is involved and who enters the territory of the Czech Republic. It's a huge credit to policemen, firefighters, the entire integrated rescue system. On the contrary, I think that how the Czech Republic has handled a thing that it has never experienced before in history deserves more appreciation. At the same time, we are also discussing, of course, at European level, that the reality is seen that the Czech Republic is a affected country, although it is not a border country with Ukraine, so that we can activate all supporting financial programmes for the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. I dare say that the emergency situation that we have now had and announced for 30 days, the government has used it as efficiently as possible, used it in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, did not restrict their rights, used it in the interests of the incoming, their security, their protection, and we will also proceed in the emergency situation that we propose if the Chamber of Deputies is approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u147	Thank you, too. I will now ask the rapporteur for the final word to sum up the various proposals presented, which will help us to focus on their individual order. Then I'll ask you to accompany us with the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, thank you for the confidence I have gained today and for the experience of being here for almost nine hours as rapporteur for this extremely important press. I will no longer sum up the debate, only to say statistically if I have counted correctly that 15 Members have spoken without prior rights. We've learned some interesting things and some useful things, such as paying off the overtime with the cops for those green hours. That's what I think is pretty crucial information that shouldn't fit in. Then we learned some things that didn't really belong here. I'm not going back to that. What all came to me as rapporteur and what we will be voting on. First of all, it is the basic resolution that Marek has read Výborný. Then I'll read it exactly, but now, to not say it twice... which basically says that consent is given for extending the emergency by the end of May. Then I'll read the sentence exactly. A single amendment from Alena Schillerová was added to this, i.e. that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period by 30 days. That would deal with the resolutions. Then you have the accompanying resolutions. Jiří Mašek read three points, with the amendment from the Minister of the Interior on that first point, and then we would vote on it first, and one resolution, one paragraph, was read by Jakub Michálek. We would then deal with the accompanying resolutions, and that would put an end to it, if I got it all right, today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. It's consistent with what we have here, too. So I think we can proceed to the vote itself. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to be at the maximum possible number. We will take the vote. Yes, I'm registering an interest in check-out, which is why I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Since more proposals are made for adjusting the same case only from the point of view of time, according to § 72 para. The two Rules of Procedure shall be followed first by an indicative vote on each of these two proposals and only then shall we proceed to a vote on the one which will receive greater support. This is a procedure that is in accordance with this paragraph. So, rapporteur, you have said the order, but first the vote, as we will do it, is precisely for our determination, which of the two proposals, which will have more support, then we will finally vote to comply with this paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u150	If that is the case, I thought that the first amendment would be voted on. If it is in this order, then we would have voted on the first vote, or as you called it, which is: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 31 May 2022, 23.59 of the declared... [[Comments off the microphone.]] After those days. Okay, so in that case, we're voting on 58 days, then 30 days, and what he wins, then I'll read the indicative... Well, it seems to me like it's too complicated. We could have voted on the 30-day amendment, but okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u151	Never mind. I think we're in the middle of this. It's not that complicated a procedure, it's not that complicated. It is essentially the same, only extended by the indicative vote. We agree. We will therefore now proceed to the indicative vote on the counter-proposal that has been made, that is, by 30 days. This means that the final resolution would be that we agree to extend the emergency period by 30 days. And then we have a proposal here, which, let's say, the resolution, more comprehensive, more widespread by the number of days to understand each other. No, Chairman Benda objects. Only about the number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u152	I am so sorry, Madam President. We only vote in terms of numbers. The vote is yes, the delay is not valid at all, it is completely irrelevant. Which of the numbers 30 and 58 gets a larger number, which is then voted on as inserted into the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u153	Okay, we're clear, thank you for that. So we are now beginning the vote, which will be 30 days. It is an indicative vote, as has been said. We only vote if we want to support this proposal. Initiating an indicative vote of 30 days. So who is for 30 days, let him express his support in vote number three. In it 147 were registered, for there were 45 of us, against 19, which means 45 votes would be for 30 days. I am now opening the vote on the second proposed time data, which is 58 days. In vote number 4 registered 148, for 81, which is significantly more than the previous 45. This means that we are clear in this indicative vote that we will have this time-limit in the resolution, which I will now ask the rapporteur to complete. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u154	In that case, we will now vote in full on the whole resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 31 May 2022 23.59 hours declared by the Government resolution of 2 March 2022 No. 147 on declaring emergency status for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large-scale migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic, which was declared under No. 43/2022 Sb." We are going to vote on this now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u155	I therefore initiate the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled and ask who is in favour? It is no longer indicative, but the final vote on the proposal. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 148 were registered, for 82, against 62, the proposal was accepted. I will therefore now ask for the implementation of the accompanying resolutions which have been tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u156	First, I think I'll read all three points of Jiří Mašek's resolution. Then I will read and introduce you to the Minister of the Interior's amendment that the procedure would be that we would vote after the points, that is, three votes, but first we would vote on the Minister's amendment. If it had passed, we wouldn't have voted on the original. And since there was no amendment to the threesome, we would vote in particular on the two, the threesome. Is that understandable?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u157	Yes, thank you. Yes, I agree with this procedure. I think he's in line with that. So please read us the first item we're voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u158	I'll read it. Item number one: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a comprehensive migration plan by 31. 3. 2022. [[This item is presented in accordance with the resolution of the Security Committee of 10 March.]] ." That's point number one. There is an amendment to this: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a strategic document on the management of the refugee wave by 14. 4. 2022." That's a point one. Item two: "The Chamber of Deputies..." [[Reactions from the O.R.]] You want to read it one by one?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u159	We would have voted on the proposals in the same way after the points, so if you will allow us to make it more effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u160	I wanted you to meet him while I was sitting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u161	I understand and thank you for your initiative. [[Glee in the hall.]] However, I think that we can vote on the first point, first of all, in the counter-proposal of the text by Minister Rakušan. I hope that we all know what we are voting on, which is why I am opening the vote on this motion for an accompanying resolution, and I am asking who is in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 6 148, for 143, against none, the proposal was adopted in the wording of the counter-proposal, which means that the first item no longer has to be voted on. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u162	Thank you, that's right. We don't have to vote on the original version anymore. Now we're at point two. "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take intensive diplomatic action in order to quickly end the war conflict in Ukraine." Once again, this item is presented in accordance with the resolution of the Security Committee of 10 March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u163	So I am opening the vote on this proposal and I am asking who is in favour to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 7 registered 148, for 140, against none, the proposal was accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u164	Thank you. And the last point of the accompanying resolution by Jiří Mašek: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit lists of all public contracts, where the government will use emergency conditions to purchase without a selection procedure."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. I am opening the vote on the motion tabled. I said, who are you up for? Who's against it? In voting number 8, 148 present, for 148, against none, the proposal was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u166	And now I have the last accompanying resolution from Jakub Michálek: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies on the emergency measures taken within 30 days of the adoption of this resolution." Translation 30 days from now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u167	Thank you. I am also opening the vote on this motion for an accompanying resolution. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 9, 148 present, for 138, against none, even this proposal was adopted. This has dealt with all the accompanying motions for resolutions. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u168	I don't have anything here anymore, so I'm saying goodbye. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-001-001.u169	We thank you, Mr rapporteur, for implementing this point. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] So I am of the opinion that the motion for a resolution has been approved. We have also voted on the various accompanying resolutions, so we have dealt with all the voting proposals and the item on today's agenda. I hereby conclude the meeting today. I'm saying goodbye to you and remind you that we'll meet next week for a proper meeting, her sequel, Tuesday at 2:00 p.m. Have a nice day.
