ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u1	8. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment /German press 56/ - first reading This press has been interrupted. We have interrupted this item on 26 January of this year. The item was interrupted during the opening speech by the rapporteur. I'm reopening it. So, please, Madam Secretary of the Environment, Anna Hubáčková, who has already taken the floor at the rapporteur's table, and I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Berenika Peštová, would you like to continue your opening speech? [[Yes.]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u2	Let's do it again. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, as the Minister has already said, we have a second of the two laws to be transposed by European legislation in the area of reducing the impact of plastics on the environment. This and the related press were submitted to the House during the previous parliamentary term, but they were not to be discussed. The deadline for transposition has already expired on 3 July 2021, as in House Press 55. This proposal is therefore an amendment law to print 55, contains amendments to related laws, especially the Act on Packaging, the Trade Act, the Income Tax Act, the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the Act on End-of-life Products. The subject matter of the proposal shall be the establishment of the relevant rights and obligations of persons placing the packaging on the market or putting it into circulation. In addition, the proposal also implements the necessary legislative technical adaptations. The most important thing, I think, is the determination of the mandatory recyclable content in PET bottles gradually from 25 per cent to 30 per cent. The most grateful media will surely be the obligation to firmly connect plastic lids to PET bottles in production. Furthermore, the aim of sorting PET bottles is to gradually up to 90 per cent of the weight put into circulation in that year. A frequent question is also the PET backup system. This is still only an option, not an obligation. Without interest, there are no annexes to the law, which contain, for example, criteria and illustrated examples specifying the term "wrap" or criteria for ensuring a re-use system of packaging. Any addressee of a legal standard can thus track down the product type and store it accordingly, i.e. whether it has an obligation, for example, to attach a cap or to mix recycling in production. That's the most important thing from my point of view. Since I have worked intensively and participated in the creation of this law, I will probably have some personal remarks in the debate on the direction of anti-plastic legislation. Madam President, I am hereby signing up for the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur, I have registered an application for the debate. However, first of all, is it necessary to ask whether you sign up, rapporteur, with priority rights? As rapporteur, you have it. [[The rapporteur at the rapporteur's table speaks to the Minister and does not notice.]] Madam rapporteur? Madame, please, do you report to a debate with priority rights because you have one as rapporteur? I am then merely stating that in the general debate, Mr Václav Král is duly signed up. But if you want to take advantage of your preferential rights, I'll ask? [[The rapporteur is still not responding.]] [[10.00 hours]] Okay, I don't think so. So I am opening up a general debate and just making sure of the order. Mr Václav Král and then Mrs Berenika Peštová are now registered. Mr. Král, please. He's downloading? He's not here. The speaker is not here, and I will therefore ask the rapporteur with your application for a debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u4	As I have already announced, I have prepared a few arguments on backup, and I would like to say, perhaps, if there is any discussion of factual remarks about this too, I would like to make a statement on this. According to the SUP, since 2025, 25 percent of recycled PET, so-called rPET, has been mandatory in PET bottles, but since 2030 the SUP has been ordering 30% of recycled plastic in all plastic bottles, not only PET. This means, if someone is now promoting mandatory PET backup, then there should also be mandatory backups for other types of beverage plastics, including GDP plastic. What is GDP? GDP is high density polyethylene. They are plastic containers for milk, juices, yogurt drinks, beer, wine and other beverages. Backing up only PET bottles will not solve the SUP's goal. The proposal for mandatory backup is not a properly discussed government proposal such as the SUP and would be an addition to this new legislation. The proposal for mandatory backup has no analysis including a mandatory impact study, the so-called RIA. No one has previously opened this subject for the opinion of experts. I don't mean that it hasn't been discussed, but the opinions are so contradictory that there was no consensus on whether or not to back up. There is only an effort to fast-glue the draft mandatory advances to the original government bill. Mandatory backup of packaging from beverages would affect and regulate a large number of business and economic relations, from beverage manufacturers to traders, municipalities and cities, sorting lines to final recyclators of secondary raw materials. This is why such regulation should possibly be dealt with by a separate law and the related comprehensive debate and inter-ministerial commentary procedure, not by a mere label. If someone wants to introduce mandatory backup without conclusive expert analyses, e.g. carbon footprints, then there is a precedent for mandatory backup and there can also be mandatory backup of tyres, batteries and other products. Proponents of the introduction of mandatory advances on packaging from beverages are consciously working to limit supply to the consumer. It will not be possible to purchase a drink legally in unreserved packaging, which means no backup bottles. Then, if this amendment is made, this amendment should be entitled "No classification of PET bottles in a container'. The mandatory backup PET bottle is not like a glass bottle, it is not filled again. It is crumpled and ground into flakes as well as non-reserved PET bottles sorted into plastic containers. In order to buy back the backed-up PETs back up, they must be undamaged, that is, cars carrying PETs back to shops will be with unmushled PET bottles, which thus account for a larger volume. If we sum it up, the cars will be transporting air. It's expensive, and unfortunately, it's going to increase the carbon footprint discussed so much. According to the appellants of the compulsory backup system, all costs of introducing compulsory backup PET will be borne by producers. This means that these increased costs of manufacturers to operate the backup system will be reflected further in the price of final products and these costs will actually be paid by the consumer. Unfortunately, with mandatory PET backup, consumers are expected to increase all beverage products in PET packaging. If we are talking here about an amendment that has already been loaded here in the previous parliamentary term, the authors of the compulsory backup system in their economic analysis expect the economic sustainability of this system only if one third of the costs financed from the unreturned advances of CZK 3 per PET bottle paid by the consumer. The paradox here is confirmed that these supporters of mandatory backup need as little as possible backup bottles to maintain the entire system of mandatory backup as financial as possible. That means they are financially dependent on what they are criticizing, what they are fighting against, and what they believe is the main reason for introducing mandatory advances. In the Czech Republic, about 80 percent of PET drinks are currently sorted, which is one of the best results in the European Union. The European Union is demanding 77 per cent from 2025 and 90 per cent from 2029. This means that no rapid changes or measures are necessary in the form of compulsory backup of PET which does not have an economic return. The target for 2025 is now being met by the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Environment proposes extending the collection container network to reach an additional 10 per cent target of 90 per cent of PET sorted, which is the way in the right direction and I fully agree with it. Mandatory backup does not solve the carry-off and collection of loosely tossed PET bottles, so-called litting. The introduction of 3 crowns of advances does not motivate 16 percent of non-sorted citizens to carry back used bottles into the vending machine, on the contrary, endangers existing sorting machines with this mandatory backup load, since bottles dumped in nature are usually not to be returned. The machine won't take them because they'll have damaged etiquette, so the price won't be returned to the vending machine. The backup system determines the risk of a decrease in the sorting willingness. This phenomenon occurred, for example, in Germany, where, due to compulsory advances, the classification of plastics decreased by 11 percent. In the event of a decrease in the sorting of other waste by 11 %, the overall negative impact of the compulsory advances would be a decrease of 59 200 tonnes of sorted collection. Drinking PET consists of only 5,5 percent of total packaging - I say packaging - waste. Furthermore, PET consists of approximately a quarter of the volume of yellow containers. Others are plastics with difficult or zero material usability. They are only usable for energy use. [[10.10 hours]] In the case of compulsory backup, there is a risk of small trade discrimination, where they will not be able to cover the costs incurred with a mandatory buy-back as a strong food chain. The trader does not have negotiating power during compulsory backup - he either accepts the terms of the suppliers or cannot sell the goods at all, but is thus excluded from the market. I've also thought about why someone wants to introduce extra PET and mandatory backup on cans. Cans can be electromagnetized, including aluminium, cheap and reliably sorted from bulk waste. If the reason for their mandatory backup should be littering and general efforts to recycle beverage packaging, why not back up all glass packaging and beverage cartons or beverage bags? It is clearly apparent that the authors of compulsory backup focus on the easiest and cheapest collected packaging, but with the highest market price, that is PET and aluminium. In other words, the authors of compulsory backup are about extracting the best raisins from municipal waste, the most lucrative, and problematic materials with more difficult and therefore more expensive recycling to leave to municipalities. The introduction of a compulsory back-up system draws resources from the existing municipal waste management system, where investment will be reduced, or additional financial resources will need to be found for investment. Some investments already made will be thwarted. Investment from the EU Funds is bound by a condition of sustainability in time, such as sorting lines, collection infrastructure and so on. Voluntary backup has been effectively resolved by law for decades, to the satisfaction of consumers, traders and manufacturers, and therefore it is not necessary to regulate this further. The current adjustment offers manufacturers the opportunity to fulfil the imposed collection obligation both by voluntary backup and in the form of sorted collection. Unfortunately, by introducing the obligation to back up PET bottles, political decisions are entering into mutual trade relations between the manufacturer and the trader. Maintaining the current state of voluntary backup leaves legislators responsible for beverage producers while forcing them to find optimal solutions for consumers and traders, especially small, independent ones. And now let's look at the negatives of mandatory backup for individual sectors. Households - first, space for storing undamaged PET bottles and cans, increasing distance to the place of collection of backup packaging, changing consumer behaviour, paying for the costs of introducing the system. Traders - a high proportion of the cost of introducing the system, increased demands on cash flow, high demands on price manipulation, the need for construction adjustments in separating the waste flow from food and increased administration. Waste processors - damage to market equilibrium by a non-conceptional step, demotivation from necessary investments in infrastructure, reduction of yield of sorting lines and significant income loss. Municipalities - a significant decrease in municipal income, a significant reduction in return for investment in waste infrastructure and a threat of a refund of EU funds under non-compliance, a risk of increasing waste fees and a risk of reduced service. That is in a nutshell what I have prepared for backup, because, as I have already said, this law is a change law and it is offered to be an excellent bearer of various creative amendments. And since it's already going around in the machine that it's flirted with this idea of a backup system, I've prepared a few arguments about what might happen and what risks I personally identified because I was involved in lawmaking. At the same time, I am Vice-Chairman of the Sub-Committee, so I will hold a seminar on backup and I will freely follow up on the seminars that have already taken place in this Chamber of Deputies. Of course, I'm inviting you to this, and I'll be glad if this discussion continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u5	Thank you, too, Madame. Mrs Balaštíková is also registered. I'm just gonna read an apology. Today, between 12 and 13 o'clock, Mr Jiří slavík apologizes for working reasons. And now, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u6	Hello, colleagues, I would like to thank my previous speaker because she has said almost everything that has been the contents of my communication to you. I would just inform you briefly: I have held two conferences in the last parliamentary term on backup and plastic packaging in the food industry. Those conferences featured economists, energyists, representatives of the retail network, of course representatives of large chains, representatives of municipalities, producers of drinks, representatives of recycling lines and processors subsequently recyclable plastic. I would just like to sum up the six points that were the conclusions of those conferences. The conclusion was, and there we clearly agreed on this, although the lobbyist group was really putting pressure on all those who can say something about it, and actually the pressure on Members to support the proposal - and I think that the pressure that creates the peacock lobby for the rapid introduction of advances on PET is not at all justified in the Czech Republic because, thanks to more than 20 years of work, we now have a very good position for setting higher targets and new directives coming from the EU. The current legislation allows the introduction of voluntary advances for individual producers or for the entire production association, and they did not do so, they did not use it. They want to use the money of the state to increase their profits, but I don't like it, because I have to think of communities where this money would suddenly fall. The reverse collection of PET bottles is certainly not a comprehensive indicator of the efficiency of waste management and does not solve the litting itself, which is the free collection of bottles lying around in nature. Most consumers of retail retail networks are shops in villages and in worse places than city centres, and municipal representatives certainly did not support the introduction of a backup system because they knew the parameters of the system that would change backup a lot and what the economic impact would be for them. I do not think that there is a need to threaten a functioning system because of the short-term benefits to a very specific business group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u7	Thank you, Madame. It raised a factual remark by Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would just like to remind myself of one thing about backup, that backup of peteks is actually focused on recycling polyethylene, which means that the pets will be re-created by other pets, and that means that the whole benefit or the excess of the empty waste is burdening our waste management, because actually the polyethylene is going to circulate. [[10.20 hours]] So we need to take this into account, too, and I think that the whole idea of backup from the point of view of the circulation of the material involved is very important to us, because otherwise the plastics are just going to keep getting bigger and bigger and we're going to have big problems with how to dump them, so I have to say for myself that I support backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u9	Thank you and I will read the order of the facts raised by this - Mr Richard Brabec, Mr Berenika Peštová and Mr Margita Balaštíková. First, please, Mr Richard Brabec, with the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u10	Hello, I'm intrigued again, this last remark from my colleague Kobza, because it really is quite different. I don't think I can make it in those two minutes, or I couldn't, but I'm going to say it very briefly for the citizens. The fate of the PET bottle that would eventually be backed up is exactly the same as the PET bottle that ends up in that yellow container. She just grinds into flakes and turns into a new pete, it makes no difference at all. That's what people think it's gonna work like with the glass, where the backup bottle washes out and sends the flow again - that's just not how it is. In that yellow container, it has exactly the same fate as if it were backed up, which means it doesn't wash out, it's not that useful again, and actually the recycling is going to be done in exactly the same way. So this isn't really the case, and of course I'm fully applying as co-author of the one-time plastic bill to the fact that it's actually a little paradoxical that it's most important to deal with PET, because the pets are the relatively smallest problem in terms of plastics, because they're plastics that are very hard to recyclable, they're different types of plastics. There's a lot of demand for PET, and if we had all the plastics like PET, we basically don't have any worries, and we're just going to deal with whether we're going to make PET transparent, which is even more demand than the colored one from the perspective of re-use. But I'm saying again, it's not a problem that backup would create a much better chain of use of those PET bottles than that when we put them in that yellow container. Well, that's just an explanation, technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u11	Thank you very much for keeping time. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Balaštíková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u12	So I had to get back to you, too, and I had to respond, because maybe I had the speech a little bit longer, but I said it in the speech. We are currently sorting 80 per cent and the target in 2025 is 77 per cent, so we are already on the target, meeting the target in 2025, so there is no need to introduce a new system. The system is here, it's functional, and the municipalities, or the citizens, have gotten used to it. But the problem that's happening here, that's what I've said before, that was already at another meeting, that's the rPET, that's what I said, that's what the drinkers have to do, and the drinkers are clearly 25 percent and 30 percent in 2030, so they're after the rPET. They can't get to the rPET because rPET is, of course, a commodity that's negotiable, and that's one of the most lucrative commodities. Currently, the automotive industry needs it, and since it puts the money into it and rPET buys it on the stock market, but they can't get to it because, of course, they're limited by some amount that they want to pay for the rPET, and they don't want to pay what the car industry pays. So the whole - as I would say - the whole annabasis revolves around the fact that drinkers, some drinkers started it, that they couldn't get to the rPET, so they came up with the rare idea that we'd start backing up. That's it, nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mrs Balaštíková, then Mr Kučera will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u14	I'll just fill in the technical shard. I said that I held two big conferences on packaging in the food industry, and from those plastic recycling processors, rPET, information came out, and there many of my colleagues suddenly found that even the rPET can be used twice for the bottle. He just goes around twice -- he doesn't act like glass, he can't make it out of it forever because it's flowing on those lines, and they're not gonna make those flops out of it anymore. So just this information, please, at the end of the conference, I wanted to let you know that this is not an endless process, and of course other sectors will reach after it, but it doesn't run around the bottle like glass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u15	Thank you. In addition, Mr Michal Kučera, with the factual and final de facto Mr Jiří Kobza, will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would perhaps add the information that is here, both from Mr Brabec, the former Minister of the Environment, and from his colleague. He's a little different, or he needs to add a point. The point is, it doesn't really matter where the PET bottle ends, whether it ends up in recycled waste, or whether it ends up in a new PET backup system with bottles. It doesn't matter because the PET bottle, if it ends up in recycled waste, is more or less the most valuable plastic waste in the recycling plant. The moment we take the PET bottle out of the recycling plant and let it out of the waste system, waste companies lose a significant source, a significant source of their business, because the PET bottle is really the most valuable thing in the plastic. So it's more or less double-edged. If it ends up in that part of the business, that is, it will remove it from the system, so of course, the efforts of those waste companies to recycle will be affected in some way. So this is the whole story, and I mean the most fundamental point of the whole debate. Are pets to end up in recycled waste and be part of the waste management business, or are they to be removed from the business and out of the system? Experience from other countries shows that backup of PET bottles makes sense even if it merely crushes itself in a given store, at a given collection point. So I just wanted to say what we're gonna decide today... [[Time.]] ... whether it ends up... in a waste management or... in a recycling plant outside the system. [[Your time.]] [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u17	I beg you to keep your time. Thank you. And then, again with the facts, Mr Jiří Kobza, then Mrs Peštová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I seem to have to apologize for not being detailed enough in my previous remark, because as part of the backup and recycling of pet bottles, it is certainly not about the fact that the bottles are working or moving about as milk bottles have moved in the deep past. The bottles won't be washed out, the bottles won't be sent back into circulation in any way. The bottles will be melted and new bottles will be blown out of the polyethylene melt. This means that this is about recycling not even the bottle as such, and this is quite an essential thing, because it makes the contribution of plastics to the circulation significantly, significantly lower and allows it to be controlled in some way. The fact is that this PET recycling is already going on in many countries. I remember that, 20 years ago, it was quite an interesting business in Iran, where the entire companies were doing it, collecting plastic bottles from the waste and picking them back up for remelting. [[10.30 hours]] We need not only to think about the administrative requirements of the European Union, but we need to think about our own environment here, and if we manage to reduce the contribution of plastics to our own environment, to our own country, I think that this is an important factor for us to deal with. So please, nicely, it's about remelting, and it's about saving the material so it doesn't keep bringing new stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Madame de facto - Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mr Richard Brabec, and I will just point out that I will pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u20	I would like to respond to Mr Kučera, through Madam President, there is another Madam President. I guess we didn't get along. I don't know what companies you're talking about. The point is that there are other plastics in those yellow bins, except PET, which I was saying, which is one quarter, and other plastics, and those other plastics are not so well used for recycling, so maybe they are used for energy combustion or energy use. I didn't understand your performance at all. I don't understand what kind of business you're talking about. The point is, every community has a system that works. We all know what's ecological is expensive. All communities pay for it. No one's gonna get it 50-50, that's what he put in it, so he's gonna get it back. Those communities are just paying for it. And if we take away this expensive commodity, which is an expensive commodity, it won't be - what, twice, maybe three times as much. And where is the motivation for municipalities and citizens to continue sorting when they lose this expensive commodity? It's just that the communities or the citizens aren't going to go into those colorful trash cans anymore - because we should go back to what's actually the point of those colorful trash cans. We've got these colorful trash cans here to collect packaging. The fact that we've taught citizens to sort everything is beautiful, and that's good. Our citizen doesn't know that he should be throwing cardboard in a blue trash can, he's also putting newspapers and magazines, and they're not covers. He doesn't know that he should only put a wrapper in a yellow trash can, that means yogurt, PET and so on, what's a wrapper, what protects food. [[- Please, your time.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u21	Thank you. Beautiful morning, honourable Members, I am taking over the meeting. We are in the general debate and we have another factual point with which Vice-President Richard Brabec came forward, and other entries are Ivan Adamec and Jan Bureš. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just very briefly respond, this time not to my colleague Kobza, but to my colleague Kučera. I guess we just didn't get along. I wasn't talking about the system from a business point of view, but purely about technical use, whether there's any difference between using the PET bottle from the yellow container where we dump it within the existing system, and whether there's any difference between being backed up. Again, there's no difference. On what Mr Kučera spoke, I agree with it, but beware, it is an argument that goes against mandatory backup from the point of view of municipalities, because it is logical that municipalities, if they disappear from the yellow container, essentially the only commodity they value, which is the very PET bottles, so naturally the system disappears from the relatively significant amount, which then the municipalities now use to finance the system, because the whole system is, of course, minus. This means someone has to finance it, and it is either financed by customers, or by those companies that market packaging, but they also count on their costs, and they will transfer it to the customer or to the municipalities. And the moment we remove the only profitable or one of the very few profitable commodities from that system, the financial burden will remain on the municipalities. This was also the reason why, in the past period, after the huge debates that were going on around it, the municipalities were against the mandatory backup because they knew who the burden would come to. They will be municipalities, and above all, the smaller ones, or all the municipalities, but naturally the burden will be even more evident in the smaller municipalities. But it is actually a paradox that the debate that is going on now, namely the bill that deals with the effects of disposable plastics, so we are talking about backup, and not about what I think is the main thing, and that is how to get rid of the overuse of disposable plastics, which are really a global problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Before the next one comes up with a factual remark, I'd like to read an apology. I have here an apology from the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, on Wednesday 2 March from 10 to 14 o'clock, due to participation in the Senate meeting of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And now another person who has made a point of fact is Mr Ivan Adamec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u24	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I hopefully only very briefly. When we talk about waste, it's like evergreen here in the House. I remember discussions during the last package of waste laws, waste legislation, where I had the opportunity and the luxury of not voting for it, because I saw a lot of problems and a lot of devils hidden in the details, and I think it turns out that in the future we will have to deal with this much more actively and more often, because first of all, we have some development in Europe and beyond, it is not an entirely simple matter and it needs to be dealt with. On the other hand, I have to say, it's true if we hadn't started somehow, we wouldn't have started at all. That also needs to be said, so it's a good thing we started. At this point, it's the same thing we've always discussed. We're discussing the details, but we're at first reading, and I'd love to have those details dealt with on the expert committee, because most of us here, or maybe I know something about it as a former mayor, but most of us here are hearing technical terms and I don't think they know the specifics, so I would recommend this debate first on the expert committee and then, if necessary, second reading - amendments to know what we're going to vote on, because it's really not easy. The purchase of plastics as such, EKO-KOM, has been bothering me until now, but I wanted to change it at the time, but I found it is not entirely easy in a regulated system to make some market environment. This is a very complex matter and it is not a simple matter, it is not a simple discipline. The only thing that went wrong here was whether to back up or not. That's a little short for the debate. I agree with the former minister, Mr. Brabc, and I would recommend, let's really try sending it to the second reading, let's try sending it to the expert committee. I believe that there are those people who really understand or are dedicated to it. They're just gonna make us good material that we can then judge at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u25	Congressman, thank you very much for your time. Now, before I invite another one with a factual remark, I would like to read another apology, and that is from the entire week of the hearing from 2 to 4. 3. For health reasons, Mr. Róbert Teleky apologizes. So that was an apology. And now, with another point of fact, Mr Jan Bureš is registered. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u26	Thank you. I'm not even gonna use them, Madam Vice-President. It's always so hard to perform after Ivan Adamc, because he's gonna say exactly what I've been preparing in the bench all this time. I wanted to ask you too, let's put this discussion on the committee. We have heard from Mrs Peštová that there is also a seminar on this subject, which will, of course, be open for the entire Chamber of Deputies and for all the other Stakeholders who will be interested, so let's transfer it there, let's put it into second reading and let's go about the other laws that we have before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. At this point, there is another factual point and with that Mr. Jiří Kobza is registered. I will ask the Member to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that to a great surprise, I find that the law on how to limit disposable plastics turns to how they trade plastics in a community, and it goes into a completely different environment. So I don't think it should be, because we should focus on the merit of things, and that's how to limit disposable plastics itself. Recycling is one of the ways. And if we're talking about money, we can talk about that, too -- I'm talking about what I've seen differently in the world -- that oddly from collecting PET bottles, poor people were just making money here, which we might as well get when the energy and gas costs ran out. [[10.40 hours]] So, first of all, I would like to ask you to discuss this debate, because it has been said here that most people, most of the Members sitting here, do not have much of an overview of this, so I think it is good that we are here to discuss this, at least to get the basic overview and not to download the discussion into the closed enclave of the committee, however I do not defend the debate, of course, but I think that this is such a serious point, the serious issue of the plastics, that it is necessary for us to discuss it as much as possible, and the Forum of the Chamber of Deputies is wonderfully suited to this in my opinion, because it is also about finding not only a professional approach and an economic approach, but also a fundamental one, because everyone understands that the plastics will fill us in one day and we must be prepared to let our children live here, and not just a pile of garbage on which they will only live. So let's hold the debate... [[Prime Minister, your time.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u29	Thank you, too. I see that there is no factual point at the moment, we are still in the general debate. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I see Mrs Berenika Peštová is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u30	I'm sorry, I just moved on because those two minutes are always so little for me. I would like to respond to Mr Adamec. I agree with that, what Mr Adamec, through Madam President, has said, but the problem is completely elsewhere. The problem is that this law - a good taste, Mr President, through Madam President - opens the legislation on packaging. This law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u31	Madame, I will interrupt you for a second, and I would ask - with those factual remarks it is very difficult to enter, there is a time limit - I would like to ask you all to remain calm in the Chamber. If there's anything you need to do, please go to the lobby. Thank you very much. And I apologize, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u32	It's okay. This law opens the Packaging Act and the Packaging Act deals with the packaging component. This law should have become a carrier only according to what I see and hear, which means that this law is to be glued to the label, which, thanks to this amendment law, will get into the law on packaging, even if it is not amended in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, if we understand each other. The point is, we have a one-time plastic bill here. A change law is being made to this law, which changes the laws, and thanks to this change law, some groups want to introduce backup and stick it to the change law. And I personally have a big problem with that, because the whole charge, I mean the two laws, let the disposable plastic, so the change, went through a proper inter-departmental reminder procedure, went through the Government Legislative Council, and so on, it just went through the whole legislative process, and it didn't go through any legislative process. We can make a discussion circle here and we can have a round table here and we can do seminars, that's all nice, but if something like this is going to happen, even if it's going to be a seminar or a round table, it should go through a proper legislative process. We can agree on whether we want it or not. There may be a lot of discussion about this, because up until now, the experts have disagreed whether to back up or not. It's like when you're in one of those rings when you're sitting at that round table. But it still doesn't change the fact that it should go into a proper legislative process and it should be brought here by the Ministry of the Environment after a proper legislative process, not that we're gonna create it here on the basis that we've been screamed at by one of us at that table, that's nonsense. I say, let's talk about it, but let's - if we come to the idea of backing up or not to back it up, the Ministry should be the carrier that brings it here after a proper legislative process, not putting it in the form of a sticker. I guess that's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u33	Thank you, too, Madame. Your performance brought up two factual points. With the first point of fact, Mr. Jiří Kobza is registered and Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rapporteur for the comprehensive presentation and questions of legislation, but there is still the fundamental fact that I said at the beginning that this is not really a mere backup. The point here is that backup is an incentive for the material to be recycled, which means that there is a cost here to, in fact, even the profit from the polyethylene saved is behind the beverage companies, the state does not burden it as such, on the contrary, and it allows to a large extent to reduce the supply of plastics to nature, to our environment, and I see this as the main theme of this law. That's what he should bring. Of course, as it is formulated, it is said quite vaguely. The fact is, if it stays the way it is now, it means it's all going to be mixed up in one plastic waste, it's going to be left to the municipalities that will sell it later, they're going to have budgets, so there's still the problem, that there's just going to be more and more of this garbage. I already talked about it here about a month ago, when I pointed out that food packaging disposable, that basically when I do Sunday shopping for our family, then I throw away the same amount of plastics de facto - from yogurt, from butter, from... I don't know what, from milk. So this is about reducing the volume of plastics that's growing into nature, and if backup allows us to just recycle the material, that's a huge supply. And otherwise, Mrs. Peštová, I'm sure she'll tell us where they're putting the PETs. [[Prime Minister, your time. I'm sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u35	Thank you for keeping time in the factual context. Mr Ivan Adamec is the next person to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u36	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, perhaps I will be speaking for the last time. My speech was intended to seek rationality in the discussion of this bill. I don't want to yell at anybody - if I'm gonna say someone's yelling, it's definitely not me at this point. And I have not heard here in the rapporteur's proposal whether we should return the bill to the petitioner for revision when he criticizes that some of the legislative steps have not been taken or even rejected. I therefore repeat: we will send it to second reading if this proposal, which we will vote on, does not fall here. We will send it to the next reading, let the experts discuss it, show how we are actually doing, and present it to us for the third reading with amendments if some of them are after expert discussion, and we will comment on it. So, please, we're just giving each other all the details, we're arguing with each other, or we're debating, to be precise, not to offend anyone, and it's completely unnecessary at this point. You either give it back, or you reject it, or you let it go to second reading, and that way we can go to other laws. Thank you for your attention, and I hope I have made that perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u37	Mr Member, thank you for keeping your time, but again, we have another factual point with which Mrs Berenika Peštová has applied. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u38	I would like to respond to Mr Adamec, through Madam President. I didn't say I didn't agree to let it into second reading, on the contrary. I say yes, and I agree to let this change law be released for second reading. I have a problem with the fact that I have identified, and you can now see that the discussion has taken place, that something will be read about this amendment law, which I have a problem with. [[10.50 hours]] If the change law stays the way it is, that means the change law is for disposable plastics, I don't have a problem. The problem is when we put it into second reading, so you'll see how many of these amendments suddenly will be, but they won't have anything to do with the one-time plastic bill, and that bothers me. Thank you, yes, I'm sorry, it's humming here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-002-008.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Once again, I will ask the House for peace. At this point, I am stating that I am not registering any factual comment. We are in a general debate, no one is logged in. Let me ask you, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? I'm looking around the O.R. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate at the moment. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? I'll ask if the secretary of the environment is interested? He doesn't. Is the rapporteur, Mrs Berenika Peštová, interested in the final statement? He doesn't. I must say that there has been no motion to refer back the proposal, there has been no motion to reject it, so we will now deal with the motion for a committee order for discussion. I'm gonna sing. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'll take the liberty of checking you all out, and I'll ask all of you to sign up with your voting cards. I will wait a little while longer for the number of Members to settle. I will now say that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. I'll ask at this point, does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no one, so we will now vote on this proposal. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. Who abstained? At this point, I note that it was the vote number 115, 170 Members were enrolled, 170 for it, no one opposed, no one stayed. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Let me ask you, does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? I don't see anyone. At this point, if this House press has not been ordered by another committee, I am ending the discussion of this House press. I thank the Minister of the Environment, thank the rapporteur. Now, according to the approved program, we come to a point.
