ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal for termination of pandemic emergency / House document 756/ On 27 April 2022, the Government, by its resolution No 346 of 27 April 2022, proposed to the Chamber of Deputies to put an end to the state of pandemic emergency pursuant to Section 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of Law No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the Covid-19 epidemic and amending certain related laws, as amended, on 3 May 2022. The above government resolution, together with the justification, has been delivered to you as House Document No 756. I will now ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, who is responsible for the government for making a motion to end the state of the pandemic emergency. Please, Minister, you have the floor. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, yesterday's and today's discussions and discussions not only inspired me, which is why I have decided that I will always take a number of papers and read various materials so that you will not be deprived of a lot of information that can be read out of them. However, it will not be this situation. Here I would briefly introduce you to the situation of why we can afford to end the pandemic emergency. Following the current positive trend, the epidemiological situation is stabilised. Positive patient numbers are dropping, incidences are dropping, hospitalized numbers are dropping. There is therefore no reason for further measures, and there is no reason for us to continue to have a pandemic law on alert. Yes, drapes still have a purpose, but there is no need to impose this obligation. It is undoubtedly good for patients to have drapes in ambulances or on urgent income. Yes, covid is still killing, and many of you said it here today, yesterday. Yes, it kills unnecessarily those who, for example, did not get vaccinated in time. They are primarily, unfortunately, seniors, those who have comorbidities. They're wasted lives. We've got enough vaccines, the vaccination sites are working. The vaccination is still free, so it is a pity that everyone - everyone who does not have a third dose - does not go to it, anyone who is not vaccinated to avoid vaccination. But this has nothing to do with the pandemic law and the state of the pandemic emergency. That is why I have taken the liberty of presenting to the government and now to you, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal to end the state of the pandemic emergency, because there is no need to issue any general measures, and I would also like to abolish the stencils' obligations in medical facilities and senior homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u3	I also thank you for presenting the proposal. I am launching a general debate in which President Tomio Okamura is already the first to sign up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion to abolish the pandemic emergency. By its decision, the government finally ended the state of the pandemic emergency on 3 May, and it still needs to be confirmed by its vote today by the Chamber of Deputies. The SPD has never supported the pandemic law, and we have repeatedly proposed to abolish the pandemic emergency. That is why we will support today's, albeit a delayed proposal. The SPD has repeatedly proposed the abolition of the pandemic emergency and has repeatedly opposed the pandemic law. We, as I said, will support the abolition of the pandemic emergency, albeit delayed by the government, since the situation and all data show a decrease in incidence, there is therefore no reason to maintain this state. But at the same time, we believe that the government could have taken this step sooner. The state of pandemic emergency was introduced by the law on emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic, the so-called pandemic law, last February. It allowed certain antiepidemic measures to be taken without declaring an emergency. The pandemic law was purposefully adopted as a substitute for an emergency, so it doesn't look like the government wants to limit people to an emergency, so they just named it otherwise, simply an otherwise-named emergency. It was amended in spite of the great opposition not only to the SPD, but also to the public and many experts this February. The draft gives the authorities the authority, namely the government of Petr Fiala, to order testing for covid-19 of virtually all groups of people who work or go to school, and preschoolers. The restrictions may also apply to the number of visitors or customers, opening hours or the obligation to wear a respirator. [[18.20 hours]] The restrictions were used by the government as a coercive means of vaccination against Covido-19 and discrimination against citizens, which we have repeatedly pointed out, and was confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court in its decision, which decided that discrimination against non-violence was illegal. That government-sponsored discrimination. On 22 April 2022, the Court of First Instance supported the indictment that it cited, and I quote: "A person suspected of being infected cannot be regarded as a healthy person simply because he does not have voluntary vaccination against covid or has not had the disease," the action states. The government's restrictions have set aside unvaccorded residents as a special group against which the state authorities - of course the full responsibility of Petr Fiala's government - have aimed a number of restrictions and restrictions. What is most worrying is that the pandemic law was passed in a legislative emergency without the possibility of a proper discussion before a democratic debate would take place. Yes, that's what Petr Fiala's government pushed through. How did the time go with the pandemic law? On 7 May 2020, the Government of Andrej Babiš approved a proposal for a pandemic law, which was to apply until the end of 2020 and was to allow measures to be taken against the spread of coronavirus without declaring an emergency situation. The government first announced March 12 and ended May 17, 2020. The SPD did not support this proposal and had a number of reservations about the proposal. Here you can see the consistent position of the SPD, unlike the other parties, which are basically constantly acting by the system where the wind, the cloak - or by chance, I would say. On 15 February 2021, the Government approved the proposal for a pandemic law. His speedy approval in the House was requested by the chieftains when they had previously negotiated with the Cabinet for an extension of the emergency situation, as further progress until mid-March 2021 had been rejected by the Members. The draft law differed only in detail from the wording approved by the Government in May 2020, and the SPD was against it again. On 18 February 2021, the government agreed with the opposition outside the SPD on the text of the pandemic law approved by the House during a single day in a state of legislative emergency. The cabinet in the draft according to the request of the opposition Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 included the solution of compensation of traders and companies affected by the measures. So here, the government of Andrej Babiš with the opposition that we were among, but here we were not involved, actually, with the current government five coalitions basically cooperated - I don't say collaborating - on the pandemic law, on the area restrictions of citizens. 24 February 2021 The Senate returned the pandemic law to the lower chamber, i.e. to us, with amendments. Among other things, he wanted to establish anti-coronavirus restrictions on a pandemic emergency that could end or restore the House. The House then passed the law on 26 February in the Senate version. On the same day the standard was signed by President Miloš Zeman and also published in the Collection of Laws. 27 February 2021, the beginning of the Pandemic Act. On the same day, however, another emergency situation began to apply smoothly to the previous one. On 2 June 2021, then Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for the ANO movement, in response to the abolition of certain measures by the Supreme Administrative Court, said that the pandemic law would need to be amended in order to allow for preventive measures against the spread of the epidemic. The Court of First Instance was particularly concerned that the Ministry closed schools or restaurants and other services across the board. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, neither the pandemic law nor the Public Health Act allows this, so here we see how the government has already taken advantage of the situation for a unilateral dictatorship against citizens, contrary to the laws. On 24 November 2021, the incoming government announced, and we are already with the government of Petr Fiala, that it is also planning an amendment to the pandemic law, which will prolong its effectiveness and adjust the parts that do not work ideally according to it. On 20 December 2021, Minister Vojtěch said that he was going to send a amendment to the pandemic law, which will extend its validity, among other things. The D.O.D. wanted an extension of at least a year. On 15 December 2021, the pandemic law as a whole stood up to the Constitutional Court. The judges merely canceled part of the section on how to compensate for the damage caused by the anti-epidemic measures. The State cannot, according to the court, reduce the compensation for entrepreneurs by the amount of refundable financial assistance, but it can continue to reduce it by the amount of subsidies and other aid. The damage must be proven, the entrepreneur must prove that it could not be prevented. 16 December 2021, the day before the appointment of the new government of Petr Fiala, the Ministry of Health sent a draft amendment to the pandemic law, which raised a major discussion in society and criticism. Among other things, it proposed to extend its validity by the end of August 2023, i.e. by a year and a half. The Ministry also wanted to extend the emergency measures that could be taken. 19 January 2022, we have already approved this year, the government approved the amendment to the pandemic law. In its view, it should, inter alia, extend its validity by a year and a half, i.e. by the end of August 2023. It should have been possible to limit the operation of all types of establishments, markets, sports facilities and school or educational establishments for children from three years of age. The Ministry of Defence could also issue measures. Basically it started by circumventing the constitution, starting here by circumventing the constitution of guaranteed freedoms, such as the right to entrepreneurship or the right to education, and it is already under the direction of the government of Petr Fiala and Minister Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09. On January 25, 2022, the House began to deal with an amendment to the pandemic law. Because of the time constraints, this was to happen rapidly in a state of legislative emergency. However, MEPs did not ultimately discuss the law in plenary, thanks to the veto of the SPD movement. On February 2, 2022, the government presented this law so that it should have been discussed in the House in a state of legislative emergency, and after more than 35 hours I would have said resistance since the opening of the meeting approved - the opposition of the SPD, the opposition of the SPD, because we want to protect freedom and democracy and we want the Constitution to be respected here and not restricted by the Constitution guaranteed the rights and freedoms of our citizens, unlike the government of Petr Fiala - so after 35 hours of obstruction, the government of Petr Fiala finally approved the amendment to the pandemic law with amendments. As I said, the opposition's SPD had the law on it, but the lawyers had reservations about it, even the rejection, the rejection of this law and the Senate, where the government coalition has a majority. And the reason for this is simple - and constitutional lawyers had reservations about it - is because the government's text is contrary to the Constitution. On February 10, 2022, the Senate, as I said, rejected the contested amendment to the pandemic law, which, among other things, distinguished the possibilities of issuing anti-coronavirus measures, and on February 18, 2022, the House overruled this Senate veto. Once again, the SPD opposed and blamed the government for a number of the contested provisions of this amendment. We have repeatedly warned and warned that this government law is an unprecedented attack on citizens' rights and freedoms. The SPD never supported the pandemic law, and we repeatedly proposed to abolish the pandemic emergency. That is why we will support today's motion to abolish the pandemic emergency. As I said before, the pandemic law and the pandemic emergency were literally abused by the government and removed its mask. Unfortunately, hunger for power will not stop even from violating constitutional and human rights. [[18.30 hours]] Of course, from my point of view, the biggest unpleasant surprise in this matter is where the ODS has moved. Since the original, sometimes in the past, the declared freedom protector, the ODS has moved to the pandemic law, the total control of citizens, promotes correspondence voting, open censorship of views, all for the benefit of citizens - that is today's ODS. That's today's ODS! So now voters who were hoping for the right-wing ODS government see that the ODS right-wing government does not exist and is the same as its coalition partners, where there are ultraleft, extremely left-wing partners, such as the pirát. With regard to democracy, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, the ODS only cares about this beyond the borders of other states, other governments, they are good at criticizing this, but they forget to apply these rules to themselves and our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. There is no more in the general debate, the general debate is still underway, but no one is reporting, so I am ending it. Interested in the Minister's final words? I can't see. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. In it I see Mr. President of the TOP 09, Mr. Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the material presented to us, the date of the end of the pandemic emergency is May 3rd, which we have no longer had due to the time of discussion, so I will allow myself to read the adaptation of this date in a detailed debate, namely at 5. 5:00 p.m., in other words, the pandemic emergency ends tonight at midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-022-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I'm registering this proposal. I see no one else in the detailed debate, which is why I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and I will conclude the detailed debate. I hear you're interested in signing off, which is why I'm signing everyone off, and I'm asking you to reclaim your identification cards. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, as has also been said about the adjustment of the date, which, of course, is based on the logical need to adapt it, because it has already been on 3 May. So, please pay attention, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of Law No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures in the event of a covid-19 epidemic and amending certain related laws, terminates, on a proposal from the Government, on 5 May 2022 at 0.00 hours, i.e. midnight, the state of the pandemic emergency announced on 17 February 2021.' We all know what we are voting on, which is why I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution, and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number six, 159 Members and Members, for all present, against none. Therefore, the proposal was accepted. We have hereby approved the termination of the pandemic emergency, and I am done discussing this point. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus exhausted the agenda of the twenty-two meeting, which I am ending with this. And now there will be a five-minute break to prepare for the 20th meeting, which will continue at 18.38 hours.
