ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the Management of Genetically Modified Organisms and Genetic Products, as amended /German Printing 43/ - Second Reading I would like to ask the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková, and the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr David Pražák, to come to the counter in particular. I would now ask, under the authority of the Government, for the draft bill to be presented by the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, let me briefly introduce you to the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the treatment of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, as amended. The draft law was prepared to ensure the transposition of the amendment to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, which was carried out in the framework of a wider amendment to selected European Union food law legislation in June 2019 by Regulation 2019/1381 of the European Parliament and of the Council, on the transparency and sustainability of the risk assessment by the EU in the food chain. This implementation should have been implemented by 27 March last year. [[10.50 hours]] The aim of that amending Regulation is to increase the transparency of the risk assessment carried out in the framework of food and feed safety. To this end, standard data formats are introduced to contribute to the effective processing of applications assessed by the European Food Safety Authority. In this context, the form of standard data formats was introduced into the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment so that the relevant documents processed for the purposes of assessment used as food and feed, or as raw materials or preparations for their production, are presented in a uniform form. Another area that has been changed in the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment is the legislation on the protection of information which the subject of genetically modified organisms is obliged to submit in the context of the relevant authorisation processes and whose publication could harm it in the context of competitive relations. The amendment responds to these changes as follows: the possibility of submitting the relevant applications in the form of standard data formats is added, the provisions relating to the protection of selected data contained in the relevant applications for authorisation for the handling of genetically modified organisms, in terms of their definition of related procedural issues as well as their own protection regime. The draft amendment was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies on 26 January 2022 at first reading. He was ordered by the Committee on the Environment to discuss the proposal on 24 February 2022 and issued a resolution recommending to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal as proposed. At this point, no amendment has been tabled to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u3	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, for introducing this government bill. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 43/1. I will now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr David Pražák, take the floor to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u4	Good morning, colleagues, Madam Secretary, Minister. The legislation on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, both at Union and national level, distinguishes three ways of such treatment. This is first of all the closed handling of GMOs, which means any activity involving genetic modification of organisms or in which GMOs are used in any way in a closed area, and with which adequate measures are taken to safeguard this restricted area from the leakage of GMOs into the external environment, and secondly, the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment for purposes other than the placing on the market, which means the deliberate introduction of GMOs, in which no specific containment measures are applied to prevent their contact with the environment - that is, the use of GMOs in which they are deliberately introduced outside the closed area, but for other than commercial purposes, for the third placing on the market of GMOs and products containing them, which means the supply or transfer of GMOs or genetic products to another person, whether for payment or free of charge, except for the sole purpose of the contained management of such GMOs or their introduction into the environment by a person authorised to do so. In the Czech Republic, the authorisation to dispose of GMOs is either in the notification or authorisation regime. That's two ways. On the basis of the notification, authorisation for the contained handling of GMOs is obtained, which has been classified in the first or second category of risk based on its risk assessment, which means that only negligible or low risks to its harmful effects are associated with it, and therefore the requirements for the security of the enclosed space are less stringent. The person who intends to operate the closed handling of GMO in the first or second category of risk shall be obliged to make a notification to the Ministry of the Environment before it is initiated. A Ministry of Environment is required to authorise closed handling, which has been classified in the third or fourth category of risk for its high risk for the effects of harmful effects, as well as for the introduction of GMOs into the environment. The necessity of the proposed legislation is determined by the obligation to ensure the implementation of the abovementioned Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2019/1381. Although it is directly applicable due to its legal form, it also amends certain articles of Directive No. 78/2004 Sb. The proposed legislation is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. The adoption of the proposed legislation is a necessary condition for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from the implemented regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, or for ensuring an appropriate transposition of the amendment to Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The proposed legislation shall be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 7 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, when it is the subject of measures aimed at protecting natural wealth. The proposed legislation is presented solely in order to ensure proper implementation of the relevant European Union rules. The objective of the proposed amendment to Act No. 78/2004 Sb. ensuring appropriate transposition of the amendment of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing Council Directive 90/220/EEC, as implemented by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transparency and sustainability of the EU food chain risk assessment. As the Minister has already said, the deadline for implementation has more or less taken place, one might say, a year ago, 27 March 2021. The first reading took place on 26 January 2022 at the 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and was ordered by the Committee on the Environment. The time limit for the hearing was 30 days. The Committee of the Environment discussed this press on 24 February at the 4th meeting and I would like to introduce you to the resolution: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Environment . Vladimír Mana, report by Mr David Pražák and after the debate by the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal in the proposed text; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment; IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; Finally, I would like to say that no amendments have been tabled and are not currently in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u5	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and Members of the Committee on the Environment, Mr David Pražák. I will now allow myself to open a general debate in which Mrs Karla Maříková is the first to sign up. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We are presented with the implementation of the European Union, which also amends some articles of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. The proposed draft law is intended to ensure that applications for the handling of genetically modified organisms and genetic products for authorisation are made in accordance with European Union law. Genetically modified organism is an organism whose genetic material has been intentionally altered, in a way that is not achieved by natural recombination. Most often, GMOs are prepared by artificially inserting a gene isolated from an organism of another species into a particular organism, leading to overcoming the so-called natural reproductive barrier. In practice, it looks like, for example, a gene from a human is transferred to a bacteria, to a gene from a bacteria to a plant. Such a way of changing genetic information is referred to as transgenosis. Organisms in this way modified are called transgenic. Genetically modified organisms are a threat to some modern breeding methods and others. Genetic modification of organisms causes a number of discussions, as it brings both a number of benefits, but of course also a number of risks. [[11.00 hours]] The benefits can be mentioned by producing more effective medicines, improving treatment procedures. Interestingly, experiments to create species decomposing toxic waste, which normally organisms are unable to decompose. There is a modification of the linguine tulip flower, which is able to grow in areas contaminated with otherwise very toxic mercury and transform it into less toxic forms. In agriculture, plant resistance to herbicides and pests or parasites, infectious diseases and cold. I'm sure they're some of the benefits, but there are a lot of risks to that, of course. Some claim that genetics is a way to grow both agricultural production and food quality. The primary impulse to breed GMOs was just a need to increase the production of agricultural crops per hectare of land a few decades ago. Genetically modified maize, pest-resistant, able to grow even in difficult living conditions, has become a symbol of the new age of genetically modified food. Corn flour and starch are one of the most common ingredients in baking, cakes, packaged sweets, but also in dairy products, instant foods and in some beverages. For its high resistance, modified maize and its products have a very low price and low growing costs. The second most commonly genetically modified crop located on our market is soy. GMO potatoes were the first experimental crop. There are arguments in favour of the use of GMOs as well as warning voices encourage the utmost caution against the new human experiment, because GMO crops could cause an increased incidence of certain diseases and suppress the original plant species. Another possible risk is the disruption of biodiversity, the possibility of allergic reactions when consumed by humans. GMO crops and food are only produced for a short time, so we cannot be sure whether they are safe or not. Transferring resistance to antibiotics from modified organisms to bacteria that occur in the intestines is another risk. The consequences of growing genetically modified food can be positive, but also negative, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u7	Madame Members, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask all Members if they need to discuss something in order to do so in the lobby of the Chamber and not disturb the Member. Thank you very much. Madam, I'm sorry, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u8	For example, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Austria, Italy, where there is a long-term high food culture, but also some countries close to the East, or, paradoxically, Poland. Any genetic modification for use in food feed in the European Union shall be approved by the European Commission. The Commission shall act on the basis of the scientific opinion of the European Food Safety Authority assessing the impact of that modification on the health of consumers and animals. Directive 2015/412 of the European Union allows individual Member States within their territory to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMO crops that have been authorised at European Union level for marketing. The government of the Czech Republic can therefore decide whether to take possible risks or not. This law lays down the conditions for the handling of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, and the amendment regulates the conditions for the submission of an application for authorisation for contained use, the authorisation for placing in the environment or the entry into the list for placing on the market under this law by the applicant to the Ministry. The application may be submitted in accordance with this amendment by means of a data box in electronic form, signed by a recognised electronic signature, or in paper form, provided that it is supplied simultaneously on a technical medium of data or in electronic form by means of a public data network. According to this implementation, the applicant may, at the same time as submitting an application or notification, request that certain information contained in the application or notification be treated as trustworthy. However, this does not apply precisely to a general description of a genetically modified organism or genetic product, or even to a risk assessment, which is quite correct given that we still do not know their seriousness well enough. To think that everything is just watered by the sun and brings only benefits would probably be very naive. Each for certainly has its own against and it is always good to assess whether risks do not exceed the benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u9	Thank you, Madame. Now another person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mr Vladimír Zlínský. I'll also ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u10	Madam President. Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, I see Minister Langšádlová here, so I'm glad she's here because my performance will also concern her ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that this speech of mine will be somewhat controversial. I drew all the information here from the professional articles of the Czech magazine Universe, which some of you certainly know, and from a freely accessible article called Next Generation Bioweapons from the Future Warfare section of the US Air Force by Michael J Ainscough. I am an enthusiastic admirer of scientific and technical progress and I still believe that it can ensure the further positive development of the human population on our planet. Unfortunately, as is the case, anything that has the great potential to do great good in our behalf can result in great evil and global difficulties as much as possible disaster. In my opinion, we live - without realizing - at the time of the first biological revolution or perhaps even others. It will be evaluated by our descendants if they are able to do so. The unprecedented development of genetic engineering technologies, genomics and synthetic biology, as a legislator, poses very intense questions about how to face these challenges and possible dangers. What is happening in this field is clouded by the mist of our ignorance, the possibilities of these technologies and the secrecy of research. These biotechnology are undoubtedly the center of the interest of military strategists of major powers. The current rapid development of the above-mentioned and IT technologies, including artificial intelligence, allows working with large databases of information associated with DNA analysis, is the right point of the fault that makes this possible. I have no doubt that in secret military laboratories, the possibilities of harming potential and real opponents through these technologies are being investigated and possible technologies are being sought to defend themselves. Great progress has been made in macromolecular clarification of the pathogenicity of individual types of bacteria, viruses and protozoa. Vectors were made to transfer this information to DNA cells. These vectors are plasmids and, if necessary, retroviruses that are based on bone-in viruses of many serious human diseases, such as HIV, or animal viruses that are similar to HIV. In this case, it means that by means of a biotechnological intervention by means of gene engineering, their pathogenicity is prevented. In laboratories it is possible to artificially synthesize viruses of dangerous human diseases. Among the first viruses produced by the genome synthesized in the laboratory was polio virus. In the laboratory, for example, the virus was revived by a sadly famous Spanish flu. These revived microorganisms are able to cause disease in humans and even cause an epidemic. At present it is possible to purchase custom-made long sections of genetic information. In theory, it is possible for someone at several different companies to order individual components to create a killer virus and then assemble them together in their lab. For example, privately operated laboratories in the United States now operate with relatively good equipment, which is intended for people who are engaged in this field in amateurism and entertainment. They are part of the growing movement Do it yourself biology. Some participants in this movement claim to the ideas of computer piracy and refer to themselves as biohackers. Many compare these laboratories to garage companies in the beginning of the information technology boom and imagine that this is where they start a boom based on synthetic biology. [[11.10 hours]] I've been marked by the Prime Minister that I'm haunting our population during my last interpellation with the number of functional anti-atomic shelters in our territory. Unfortunately, I must continue to do this because I do not consider it a haunting, but a real indication of the situation that is supposed to lead to proper correction. I am then forced to call the opposite approach an ostrich policy which, in most historical situations, does not meet with great success. I will mention here the possible dangers of a biological hybrid war with genetically modified organisms. It's really a lot, I'm saving it for my next performance, but I'm gonna put on at least a few seed beads. Firstly, resistance to commonly used antibiotics can be artificially inserted into deadly bacterial pathogens. Secondly, it is possible to construct a pathogen more virulent, more resistant and less detectable for diagnosis than naturally occurring pathogens. Thirdly, it is possible to construct stealth, i.e. invisible viruses, which are incorporated into the genome of somatic cells, i.e. body cells and possibly even germ cells of organisms, including humans, and will be activated after a longer period of time, possibly after delivery of the activator. Fourth, the harmless bacteria of our microbioma can be changed by producing bio-regulating substances, toxins, or substances that affect the behavior of people. Fifthly, it is possible to create a vector that is integrated into the genome of somatic or germ cells, including a gene for the production of substances that affect the behavior of the population and substances that reduce reproductive capacity, preferably in situations where the opponent is unaware of it and thus does not take appropriate steps to retaliate or defend it. The 20th century is called the century of physics, the 21st century is very likely to be called the biological century. Once again, all of these considerations are based on professional articles freely available on the Internet published by us, as I mentioned, the Universe magazine and in the Future wellfare section of US Airforce, forcing us to think about how we can defend ourselves and act preventively in this direction. It's certainly a difficult question, but it's possible that if we don't deal with it, we're gonna stick our heads in the sand like the ostrich and we're gonna fall. If it turns out in the future that I, like the authors of the articles mentioned, am wrong, I will certainly bear due responsibility for this, but as an elected representative of the Czech Republic's population, I feel obliged to carry my skin to the market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u11	Thank you. Another person who has joined the general debate is the Member and, at the same time, the Vice-President of the Club of Deputies, Mr Richard Brabec. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, only after the performance of Mr Zlínský, Mr Zlínský, I had a bit of a feeling that there might be a scare about what would happen after consumption of possibly genetically modified plants. I'm not so worried, but of course I'm not taking his precautions. After all, we have been using genetically modified organisms within the food industry for some time, and it is a question of how we look at it, whether it's a short time or a long time to have some statistical data to do what it can do. But this amendment is really a transposition and I dare to say that it is quite technical, so I have just said that I support, of course, that this legislative regulation should proceed to further reading and that the legislative process can be terminated as soon as possible on the grounds that the transposition period took place about a year or almost a year ago, because it should have been implemented if I am not mistaken, until 27 March 2021, when that amendment regulation entered into force, and unfortunately, in the past period it failed to end the legislative process due to the covid and other priorities, the priorities of other legislative standards. It is a standard prepared by the previous government, this government has taken it over, put it in the House, and I hope that it will actually be discussed as quickly as possible. As the Minister has already said here, from the rapporteur and from other colleagues, this legal standard concerns, in particular, two areas, and this is an increase in transparency in the risk assessment carried out in the framework of food and feed safety, and then the other area is obliged to submit the legislation on the protection of information that the body handling genetically modified organisms is subject to under the relevant authorisation processes. There's quite a lot of information. Those who were here in the last parliamentary term, you remember that we talked about this in a different context, in the context of other changes or changes to other legislation, and there was a big debate on the Committee on the Environment, there was also debate in the Committee on Agriculture and, of course, there were concerns that were shared by part of the public in what could possibly cause genetically modified organisms, because they are probably the most famous ones that may be found in food. Probably the most known genetically modified maize, but of course there are more of these crops, and naturally it does not just concern plants or crops. This legal standard is dealing with how the so-called standard data formats to contribute to better processing, easier processing of applications, which are then assessed by the European Food Safety Authority, and as I have already said, also with the legislation on the protection of information, because there are several methods or methods of legal treatment of genetically modified organisms, and when we are talking about the level of the Czech Republic, i.e. national level, we are essentially distinguishing three ways: the contained use of GMO, which means any activity involving genetic modification of organisms or in which GMOs are used in any way, whether they are grown, stored, transported or disposed of in a closed area and with which adequate measures are associated to secure this restricted area from GMO leakage into the internal environment, secondly, the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment for other purposes, such as the deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment, where no specific sealing measures are applied, and thirdly placing GMOs and products with their content, the so-called genetic products, on the market, which is then understood to supply or transfer of GMOs or genetic products to another person, whether for payment, or free of payment. And the information and regulation of the simplification of information and their legal protection are important precisely because only those who are entitled to the appropriate treatment can handle GMOs, and they must, of course, fulfil a number of responsibilities, which I think are very well regulated at European and national level, and it is not possible for anyone to do specifically in a more stringent regime with these organisms, let's say without any valid authorisation. [[11.20 hours]] In the Czech Republic, authorisation for the handling of genetically modified organisms is obtained either in the notification or authorisation regime and the notification gives rise to authorisation for the handling of GMOs, which has been classified in the first or second degree of risk based on the assessment of its risk, that is to say, they are linked only to negligible or low risks of its harmful effects, and to closed management, which would be included in the third or fourth category for its high risk for the effects of harmful effects, as well as to the introduction of GMOs into the environment, the authorisation of the Ministry of the Environment. As regards the placing on the market of GMOs and genetic products, it is then necessary to distinguish between genetically modified food and feed or other genetically modified organisms and genetic products. So just to conclude: this standard is a transposition, as I have already said, brings Czech legislation into line with European legislation and it really is a simplification of the authorisation regime, which does not mean that it would be more liberal and that the state would allow - forgive me the word - from the chain of use or authorisation of genetically modified organisms, but it really is a simplification of the whole regime, and on the other hand it is also legal protection of information that those who are dealing with these organisms must comply with. It is based on a relatively long-term experience with these organisms, and we know that the European Commission is mostly more cautious in a number of things, so I would certainly not suspect the petitioner that he wants to simplify this regime in some way so that everyone can deal with it in public terms. So I am certainly in favour of the proposal for this legislation moving forward in the legislative process to further reading, and, as has already been said, it has also been passed by the Committee on the Environment without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u13	Thank you. Before I invite another one to the general debate, I would like to read two apologies. I have here an apology from today on 23 March to the end of Mr Jan Volný's meeting day because of a doctor's visit and then there is also an apology from today between 10.40 and 13.30 for reasons of work, namely Mrs Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková. So it was two apologies. And I will now remind you that we are still in the general debate to which Mr Josef Kott is next enrolled, and I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, members of the government, dear colleagues, let me briefly comment on the sensitivity of the words "genetically modified organism" within the Czech agriculture and food industry in relation to the wider public. A genetically modified organism is such an organism whose DNA has somehow been altered or modified to acquire a new quality. Often it is about increasing the resilience or profitability of crops, often about improving the health condition. Gene engineering is one of the most developed fields in the world today. We can do things we probably never dreamed of in the past. After all, they were Czech scientists who had discovered a way to transfer the fluorescence protein of the enthusiasts seven years ago. A common case is the extraction of silk protein from goat's milk. Although it sounds incredible, gene engineers have managed to breed a breed of goats that produces silk protein. They extract milk by the method of isolation and serve for the production of ultra-solid material, which has a wide range of uses in medicine and industry. We will also find genetically modified food in our country, yet most people will think of modern Western countries as GMOs rather than the Czech Republic. However, food growing is allowed in Europe, so it is no wonder that the Czech Republic is also significantly involved in this field. Yet there are restrictions in the European Union on the cultivation or sale of genetically modified crops. Unlike America, these provisions are more stringent, for example, companies must state whether the food or feed they produce are GMOs. They shall be designated as such if the GMO constitutes at least 0,9 per cent of the food or feed concerned. And what foods are we genetically modified to do? Most often they are crops used for feeding livestock, i.e. corn, soya and possibly sugar beet. The very first genetically modified food, however, was surprisingly tomato and was produced in California. And now for a little field trip. This variety should have had a better taste and longer durability. However, it did not last very long because the doctor on British television said that several rats who ingested these hybrid tomatoes and modified potatoes died, which in public opinion aroused a great sudden wave of resistance to GMO food itself. At first it was believed that the possibility of growing GMO food is another imaginary step forward in the scientific field, because plants are more resistant to pesticides, last longer shelf life and are more fruitful. Adjusted food only brings the same benefits. Moreover, man has bred since ancient times and it is nothing new, we just learned to make old and known skills more effectively and modified crops can not harm us. Almost no crop we consume today is original, that's just a fact. In addition to the simple selection of plants with more suitable characteristics or their subsequent crossing, a physical or chemical mutation is also used to create new varieties and characteristics of plants, a process in which DNA changes occur due to the activity of mutants. This process consists of the exposure of seeds to a different degree of ionising radiation, which creates reactive ions or chemicals when passing through the mass, resulting in certain changes in DNA and the creation of different properties of the crop. Many varieties of barley have also been bred in the Czech Republic, some of which are also used for the production of mocha, which is undoubtedly close to the heart of one of us - beer. How did these new varieties come about? The barley seed was exposed to X-ray radiation of the most commonly 100. Another example is apples, which were created by radiation from gamma rays of the same size. In the case of radiation, however, we have no idea what happened in the plant's genome and how much has happened, but the public accepts this classic method. Thanks to the perfect knowledge of the genome of the crop and its precisely targeted changes, we are also able to change the composition of macro- and micronutrients in genetically modified plants. For example, the so-called gold rice is thus modified with the production of betacarotene, i.e. vitamin A precursors. Because of the lack of this vitamin in the developing countries of Africa and Southeast Asia, up to half a million children go blind every year, and half of them die within a year of losing their eyesight. Gold rice, therefore, could save many lives. For this reason, 106 Nobelův laureates signed under its authorisation and the acceptance of GMOs in the EU would be welcomed by the already mentioned Czech biologist. However, it may be possible that new allergens may develop during the process due to the change in genetically modified plants, thus the synthesis of new proteins. However, the implementation of conventional crops did not make these differences significant, and as far as quality and safety control is concerned, GMOs are one of the most regulated food groups in the world. [[11.30 hours]] The production of genetically modified organisms is constantly increasing worldwide, and even in the territory of the European Union, certain types of genetically modified plants such as maize, soya, rape, cotton, sugar beet and certain micro-organisms for the production of pharmaceuticals are allowed for food and feed purposes. However, if any organism that has been modified is actually used in food production, this warning must always be clearly indicated on the packaging of the product. And now I would like to lean back and point out here one practical impact on Czech dairy farmers, and given what my colleague Richard Brabec said here, I will follow up on what he was talking about here, and that is the production of feed. In many European countries, some food producers and distributors, especially in the dairy industry, demand that it be proven that they do not contain - or were not made from components containing - genetic modification. That means it's either GMO non or GMO free. Following European legislation and harmonised legislation of the Czech Republic, the Association for Commodity and Feed Associations producing agricultural commodities and producing feed was created a so-called GMO-free standard aimed at ensuring standard principles and demonstrating for food producers, feed, carriers and consumer assurance that genetic modification has not been applied to the production of food for human consumption throughout the food production chain. This standard Without GMO is a purely Czech voluntary standard and its content is compatible with foreign standards, is supported by the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the relevant section in the European Union. Czech National Standard Without GMO certainly the principles and conditions to ensure such labelled products and the method of verifying that genetically modified products have not been used at any stage of the production of such food, that is, the cultivation of agricultural commodities, livestock for fattening, food additives and that the management system in each particular element of the supply chain is ensured to minimise the risk of contamination of raw materials or products with genetically modified organisms. Inspection and annual certification according to the standards Without GMO takes place throughout the chain, from the production of used seeds through the cultivation of cereals, oil and other raw materials, the production of compound feed, transport, processing of food raw materials, processing of individual food products. The requirements of this Standard also apply to traders and carriers handling these raw materials and products. Certified organisations are regularly subject to independent audits and certification companies of customers or processors. Supervision of certification of the No GMO standard is carried out by the Commodity and Feed Association through audits of integrity. Just to add, I would like to say that this amendment will unite the transpositional requirements of the neighbouring countries to which our farmers and food professionals supply their products or products, and for this reason I too would like to ask for the support of this amendment of the law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see others reporting for a general debate from the point of view. It's Mrs Berenika Peštová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u16	Hello, Ministers, Madam President, I would like to put it all back in order again, as my previous speaker Richard Brabec, through Madam President, tried to do. So the proposed legislation: the proposed bill is added to Section 5 of Act No 5 in order to ensure compliance with European Union law. 78/2004 Sb. form of the standard data format for submitting an application for authorisation for placing in the environment and an application for entry in the list for placing on the market. The proposed draft law further proposes an amendment to the existing wording of Section 9 of Act No. 78/2004 Sb. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. 25 Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council but also Article 6 of Directive 2009/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 on the contained use of genetically modified organisms which has remained unaffected by the Regulation of Directive 2019/1381 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In Section 9 of Law No. It is therefore necessary to make amendments to ensure that the new version of Article 78/2004 is properly translated. Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. In addition, it will not reduce the level of transposition of Article 4 (1) (a) (i) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 18 Directive 2009/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council. On this occasion, there is also an amendment to terminology when the existing wording of Act No. 78/2004 Sb. applies the concept of commercial secrecy, while both Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2009/41 of the European Parliament and of the Council operate with confidentiality. In the light of Directive 2016/93 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of unpublished know-how and commercial information, which contains its own definition of business secrets and the absence of any link to GMO directives, it can be concluded that the concept of Act No. 78/2004 Sb. is misleading in this regard. For this reason, it adapts to both transposition directives and converts the protected data label into confidential instead of protecting them as an object of business secrecy. Without substantial changes, the provisions of the existing § 9 para. 3 of Law No. 78/2004 Sb., which defines entities that can become familiar with data that are treated confidentially by decision of the Ministry of the Environment. Last but not least, the draft law also responds to the obligation of Member States to ensure data protection even if the applicant for authorisation of the respective handling of GMOs has withdrawn his application. Just to clarify - the number of such applications in recent years does not exceed 10 cases per year. Given that GMOs for use in food or feed are placed on the market in accordance with Regulation No. GMOs, applications for the placing on the market of GMOs pursuant to Act No. 78/2004 Sb. they'll be more of an exception. An increased administrative burden for the Ministry of the Environment resulting from the decision on the protection of certain data will be able to cope with existing capacities. [[11.40 hours]] So I would like to reassure, or rather to reassure, SPD MPs that it is really nothing contaminated, nothing serious. It's really just a transposition into this law. Therefore, I also ask that this law be passed on to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-003-001.u17	Thank you. I'll say we're in a general debate right now, I don't see anyone else logged in. I'll check the O.R. to see if anybody else checks in from the scene. I don't see anyone, so at this point, I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if she's interested in the secretary's final word? He doesn't. I ask if the rapporteur, Mr David Pražák, is interested in the final word? It doesn't either. No further proposals have been made, so I would like to start a detailed debate at the moment. As already announced by the rapporteur, no amendments have been tabled. I'm going to ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate from the scene? I don't see anybody, so at this point, I will allow myself to end the detailed debate. I ask again if the Minister of the Environment is interested in the final word, is David Pražák interested in the final word of the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment? They don't, so at this point, because there were no proposals, I'm ending the second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister of the Environment, thank the rapporteur, Mr David Pražák, and we have discussed this House press at second reading. We are now coming to the next point according to the approved agenda for this meeting, and that is the point
