ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 259/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing this government proposal, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law still persist in the short-term negotiations. I am opening up a debate on this. This is President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll start by saying that we will support the suggestion that conditions continue. We are aware - and we will not take the Czech Republic's citizens and Czech companies hostage, but I believe that the Minister will speak with his opening words, and I very much beg him to do so - I believe that he has it there, in that introductory word - that he will explain why we are waiting for it for months, why we have been debating this for months, why we do not know the detailed parameters to this day, because none of us have yet seen the government regulation, why it is so hectic, why today, as I have heard from my colleagues in the Economic Committee, the current ones, I think four, if I am not mistaken, amendments, even five here says to me by the Chairman of the Economic Committee - thank you for the addition - and why we are here under pressure from the legislative emergency. We are open, we want to help both citizens and companies, we think that this aid is slow, that it is simply inadequate, but we are ready to support it as well as adoption in a legislative emergency, but we say again, we do not understand why it takes months and now we are under this pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u3	President Fiala is now claiming priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Just on this time thing for the SPD movement, let me say that I believe that this law, this amendment, this energy package, was supposed to be here six months ago, that it was all delayed, that it meant more money from taxpayers' pockets, Czech citizens and Czech companies. For us, I must say that we voted in favour of all the amendments on the Economic Committee, although we think that this aid is unsystemic and that it is late, but it is something, so we will support it. We'll also support the 90's to make it as quick as possible, sorry, a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u5	President Okamura is now on the table for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u6	Well, I'd say to President Schillerová why we have some energy package on the table in July. Because the government is completely incompetent, we know that. No one from the government will answer you, so I'm happy to answer you. The citizens of the Czech Republic see this because six months ago another country in Europe, including the surrounding countries, took measures to help citizens with expensive energy, but Petr Fiala's government is so incompetent that because of its incompetence it pulled out of its pockets, out of our citizens' wallets, tens of thousands of crowns completely unnecessary, and now it presents an empty box in the form of an energy law. We, as the SPD, will support this, because any assistance that will be directed towards citizens, of course, we support it, but what happened here today on the Economic Committee, that after half a year - and that government has had a majority in the House for three quarters of a year - so that they come up with a law that neither the SPD Members nor the opposition Members can read in advance, because the government is not prepared even after half a year, then even a half-hour pause must be taken on the committee, because the Members had no chance to get to know it at all, so that is how the government of Petr Fiala is acting on such a serious problem that burns all citizens of the Czech Republic. It's just the total incompetence of this government. I think it is for immediate demise, because in such a way that you are unable to respond even to the most basic and burning problems of Czech society, I have never seen it here and I have never seen a situation where amendments are longer than the law itself. That means, that's the pasquil of the highest caliber you've ever shown here. Again, the SPD will support it, because at least some help is welcome. You're in the government, you're in charge, you're in full responsibility, you're in charge, you're in charge, millions of people are getting into poverty and an unsolvable economic situation. It is necessary to name clearly who is responsible and who is responsible for this, even now, in the coming months, will be responsible for the tragic fates of hundreds of thousands, millions of Czech people who are falling into executions. It was entirely the government of Petr Fiala and the ODS coalition, TOP, STAN, Pirates, and who else did I forget? KDU-ČSL. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u7	Now I do not see anyone enrolled in the debate, which is why I am ending the debate. We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, the House Press 259, in the shortened negotiations. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 4 registered 125 present, for 109, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am now opening a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, in the shortened negotiations. It's the House Press 259. The proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela, whom I ask to take the floor. [[11.20 hours]] Please, Minister. I ask you, colleagues, to lower your voice and move your conversations into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to present a more technical part to the bill and then add a few comments. This is a bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, i.e. the Energy Act, as amended. The Ministry of Industry and Trade presents this amendment in response to the current energy market crisis in order to introduce measures to mitigate the effects of energy price increases on electricity and gas consumers. In response to the current situation, the amendment to the Energy Act introduces a completely new institute, which is a contribution to the economic tariff. At present, a large proportion of citizens are experiencing financial problems as a result of high electricity or gas prices. Solving this situation by providing social assistance, such as a housing contribution that only targets a group of socially weaker customers, seems to be insufficient at the moment. For this reason, a mechanism is proposed in the proposed amendment to the Energy Act, which will enable the State to reduce the final price of electricity or gas to customers, which will be directly reflected in the energy bill. The legislation is intended to allow a contribution - discount - to be reflected in the customer's electricity or gas invoice, which will be paid by the State from its own resources through the market operator to the trader. The electricity or gas trader shall apply the contribution to the customer in advance payment or in invoice for energy consumed. The legislation is designed to enable the government to issue a regulation defining the amount, the method of granting the contribution and the category of customers according to the electricity distribution rate or planned annual gas consumption. The main role in the administration of State aid shall be entrusted to the electricity and gas market operator, which shall calculate the amount of the contribution for each demand point and send this information to traders. They shall include the calculated amount in the financial performance of the customer, which shall be reflected by a reduction in the energy payment in the electricity or gas invoice or by a reduction in the advance payment. Furthermore, the amendment contains an amendment to § 88, in which it is proposed to allow the Ministry of Industry and Trade to declare for the entire territory of the State the prevention of an emergency in the heating industry. This will allow the Ministry of Industry and Trade to impose new obligations on heat suppliers, such as preparing for the operation of equipment that can reduce the consumption of natural gas, and to provide them with fuel such as coal, fuel oil, etc. I would like to ask you in connection with this proposal if you know how much the megawatt hour of natural gas cost last year. It was 22 euros. This morning the gas cost 179 euros, last week it was over 180, almost nine times more. This is one of the reasons why we are coming up with this measure right now. For many of you, as I have noticed from your contributions, late, from our point of view just at the right moment. The price of electricity depends on the price of gas in Europe, and the prices of these energies affect prices of other products, which, of course, negatively affects the lives of many citizens. But we have to name things by their real names. These rising energy prices are the result of an unproclaimed energy war unleashed against Europe by Russian dictator Vladimír Putin. After all, only a few weeks ago, the price of gas was 100 euro lower. But only a few of his well thought-out steps were enough, and the price gradually went up to the current border. We want to prevent our citizens from the consequences of this war as much as possible. That is why we have created this austerity tariff as a tool to help households with high energy prices. This tool has several advantages. We will not ask anyone to go to the authorities or to ask for this help. All receive money automatically within individual electricity or gas tariffs. This assistance will be transparent. The exact amount of the state contribution is calculated by everyone from their billing. An economical fare is like a truck. It can be loaded with help and distributed among households. After his approval, the government will decide on the specific amount we will load into the cart and to whom and when we will hand it over. The details of this aid will decide. I expect the government to make this decision at the turn of July and August or at the latest in August. I am convinced that for this assistance we will provide at least the originally negotiated 27 billion plus 3.6 billion for households that drown the central boiler within the residential house. In combination with the remission of renewables fees, this will provide households with a contribution of up to CZK 16 000. At the same time, after agreement with the Members of the Economic Committee, we are presenting several amendments. Using them, we want to draw up some details to ensure that the tariff provides assistance to citizens who heat their homes out of central heating stations, and to those who use the already mentioned domestic boiler rooms for heating. This procedure will be very similar in the case of both types of aid beneficiaries. We will ensure that the contribution to high energy prices is made directly to the community of owners of units, housing cooperatives or other entities that receive heat in this way. These entities shall then allocate this assistance to each household. In this case, too, the government will decide on the details of this assistance and its specific final parameters. I believe that citizens will receive this necessary assistance before the end of this heating season. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the current situation is not simple, but it is an obligation for aggressor Putin to stand in his energy war. Putin wants to undermine our support for Ukraine by trying to break social peace in the countries of Europe. One of his important weapons is that he is waging this unproclaimed energy war against us. He thus leaves it to the interpretation of each of us, why it is the deterioration of the standard of living caused, whether by his energy war, or by the incompetence of governments and by the support of Ukraine. It is precisely because of the unclear situation surrounding the further supply of Russian gas that we also support the amendment specifying procedures in crisis situations in the field of gas industry. Moreover, the Russian party's aggressive disinformation campaign complements this tactic. Its aim is to seduce Putinův's opponents, support Ukraine, and generally relativize and mitigate Russia's aggression. If we back down on Putin now, he's really threatening to use his tactics to attack another European country, and we'll never know where he'll stop. [[11.30 hours]] All the more so, we too need to be united, responsible, and, for example, not helping Russia's aggression in our own interests to gain post-malitarian points. [[political?]] Let us, therefore, use this vote on helping citizens with the consequences of this war and show that we can be united in their behalf. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The Economic Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by my decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 259/1. Now, I ask that Mr Ivan Adamec take the floor of the Committee on Economic Affairs, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Next, please your colleague and colleagues in the left side of the hall to keep it down. I'm sure they know who I'm talking to. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u10	Yes, thank you. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to get to know you about the course of today's economic committee, and let me begin by expressing my thanks to all the members of the economic committee present, who have shown a great deal of tolerance when discussing this draft law, knowing that this adoption is simply necessary for the Czech society. So thank you very much, because the meeting wasn't exactly standard. We started tonight at 7:30 to let you know, so early in the morning negotiations, and we had a gallows deadline, by 9:30, to hand over the amendments and the motion for a resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I must say that, of course, those who say that the materials come to us not quite on time, even some of the members of the Economic Committee have received amendments to the committee, in fact. But if I took it as an absurdum, I was actually the biggest criminal today as chairman of the Economic Committee, and especially as the proposer of the amendments, because I have more or less adopted them, and when you look at them, it is clear to you that these are the amendments that had to be drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It's just so complicated a matery that there was no other way. But in defense, I have to say, it's all been evolving, and the austerity tariff isn't exactly an easy thing to do, because if we chose another form, easier, there probably wouldn't be that many problems. But I see one advantage there, and it's just that it's called an austerity tariff, that it's going to push a little bit of our citizens to save energy. I think that's the positive that's in it. And then it needs to be said that this bill is actually -- he already said it here, President Okamura, he didn't mean it in the spirit that I did -- that it's actually a box, a carrier for a government resolution. And I think that this is correct, because there are all these things described as they should work, and then the government, according to the escalation of the situation or the changed situation, can significantly correct the situation with its regulations, without the need for a long legislative process and discussion of the political views here of all of us Members, because that would slow the matter down again and delay the matter. We discussed it today with the fact that, yes, it was an unusual course that we took half an hour to finish the material, the amendments, at the request of Mr Kubíček, but I have to say that we explained that, in fact, if anyone feels that the 30,000 maximum support is not enough, then it must be said that it applies to one government regulation, and that government can issue these regulations as much as it needs, as much as it really wants. We have made that clear, because the original amendments were six. There was still an amendment by Mr Kubíček, who, when he found out that this was actually the way it was treated, he gave up the amendment. We are actually - and we are doing this in a state of legislative emergency, it is also necessary to say - we have actually acquired the original material some 14 days ago, or at least I have to speak completely for myself, where we have found that there are a lot of things missing and that there is of course a need to supplement these things, because we do not just say electricity that is very easy to handle, we do not only have gas that is a little bit more difficult, but we also have households that are connected to remote heat. Heat is a big problem at all, you certainly observe that the notification of heat support in Europe is not succeeding, it is a complex issue. There is no so-called unbundling in the heating industry, the separation of pipes from the media supplier, so Europe has a bit of a problem with that. At the same time, when we had the opportunity to intervene in those amendments, we worked out some of them in quotation marks, although they are not. And I think that one of the important things is the emergency situation in the area of gas - if gas were to be scarce, how are we going to deal with this in our country in order to ensure the state's operation and the lives of our citizens. It must be said that we have various crisis procedures on various issues such as disasters, floods, in the event of an industrial accident, but we simply do not have any legislative instrument until now when there is a shortage of heating media. This needs to be said to be very important. We also had fun, and I'm going to take this step by step, those amendments, so I don't jump from one subject to another here, so the first amendment was about POZE. It is the forgiveness of the POZE in the following period with the fact that it has been discovered that there is a period of efficiency of 12 months, and of course everyone has it differently, and those who would have it at least at the appropriate time, so it would actually have come in 12 months, which of course is not the purpose and it is not the intention of the government, so there has been modified that everyone from 1. 10. they will have number at POZE zero on the billing items. This is the first thing that is there, and it needs to be seen as a necessary step in terms of legislative changes. The second is a parliamentary proposal, or an amendment relating to filling gas reservoirs, we had it here last time during the small amendment, the system use it or lose it. There it was found that it was necessary to refine this legislation with regard to foreign participants in those pipes or in those containers so that we would not get into any international problems and that legislation should speak quite clearly. The amendment is probably the shortest of those on your desk in front of you. I have already discussed the emergency situation in the area of lack of gas. This is a rather large-scale amendment, and it says exactly who will replace NET4GAZ when we get into situations like this. I think this is a very important amendment that needs to be approved in this case. Another amendment that has gone through a big debate, and I still think that sometimes there is such a thorn on the part of the heating industry that they would wish for a little bit different, but it must be perceived that we must look at it in general, not just by looking at it, I would say one of the market participants. The point here is that an alternative to direct support of heat users from remote heating is permitted. That's just the way it is, that's how it has to be done, that it can be an alternative, if the notification process for heat plants happens, then the situation will be dealt with a little differently. There was a discussion as to whether there was a word "may" or not to be there at all. I think we finally got it right, that it was written right, and that it was meant to be. Another amendment concerns so-called SVJ and domestic boiler rooms. Here we have come up with a problem that suppliers get money and distribute it, and now the question is, who, so here we have chosen the way that the owner of the house or the so-called SVJ. Of course, if it is co-ownership under Law 90, so it is treated there too, there has only been a legislative regulation made so that there is a direct reference to the law that addresses this issue. Of course, you can argue that there may be people in the leadership of the SVJ who will not be fully qualified with this problem, that they will need to hold back the money or they will not want to pay it to those people in whole, but here I think it is appropriate to use the Civil Code. I think, at some point in the next phase, we'd be pushing the Justice Minister to make these trials happen quickly in this case, similar to the football or hockey vandals, when it's actually being dealt with within 24 hours, so that if these problems are going to happen, it's going to be resolved very promptly in one day, so that it's not the lawsuits that go through months, months and years, and those people get money when God knows if they ever do. So this has also been achieved in the fifth amendment, because it is actually complicated, there is no way to get it to specific tenants, users of the particular housing units. [[11.40 hours]] I have to say that when you look at the content of the amendments, of course they are relatively complicated, they are extensive, but on the other hand, I have to say that the modifications were actually taking place until the last moment, and that we actually got to the Economic Committee today, some of us, the amendments on the table, so maybe it is also caused by the fact that I actually became a formal promoter. When I asked the members of the Economic Committee whether they wanted to be too, because it is actually a summary of the amendments made by the Economic Committee, these are no longer my amendments at the moment. And I must say that we have, therefore, taken the view that, in fact, all those amendments, even one counter-proposal that did not go through, all those amendments have passed unanimously on the Economic Committee. We realize that this is simply a need to include it in the Czech legal order. We are aware that the government also needs some boundaries where it can move without having to convene the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate at any change. So that's why it's done like this. Of course, we can discuss whether this is the best way. I think he's complicated. And when you talk about the amount of support here, we have agreed with some of our opponents that the amount of support is not entirely marginal, and that compared to the other countries of the European Union, we are not quite that bad. I know this isn't the best way to listen to opposition, but it just needs to be taken really. And you need to tell yourself the truth as it is. Of course I understand the opposition's reservations, I understand that. Probably us who have been in opposition for years, we know how it is done and what opposition can or cannot do, clearly. But at this point, take it from me that I also resented the fact that the time limits were very gallowsed. It also bothered me that the communication didn't come into the world the way we thought it would. However, at the committee meeting this morning, we came to a positive conclusion, and I think that now, of course, there's room to say these things, as someone has an idea, but in the end, the support that is configured here, I think it's good. On the other hand, I have one more thing to say so that you don't think I'm such an optimist. I am an optimist in my own way, but I must explain to you the difference between optimist and pessimist. The pessimist says it can't get any worse, but the optimist says, "Yeah, it can. But that's just an explanation, yeah, that I'm an optimist. And I'm saying that most of the rush in human life doesn't end with a happy ending. In the legislative process, it's almost a rule that even though it's being looked at by reputable legal groups, it's just that no one can replace that time. And I don't think we're quite here in the House at the last meeting, which will concern energy and energy problems as well as the Czech state. I think so. I'd love to be wrong if everything was perfectly okay, but I'm afraid we have to say that it's probably at this point in time like the art of the possible, or as I would call it, I just did my best to present to you here and from the Economic Committee a material for which we can raise our hand, of course, with various reservations, I understand. But you will be able to raise your hand and help the citizens of the Czech state. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, I am at your disposal as rapporteur, and at this point on my part, that is probably all I have to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u11	I thank the rapporteur. We will now decide, in accordance with the committee resolution, whether we will have a general debate. So I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby because we have to vote. The Committee proposes that we have a general debate. I will use this time before my colleagues and colleagues return to the meeting room to load further apologies. Mr David Kasal apologizes from the whole day for reasons of work, Mrs Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková apologizes between 12 and 15 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Strýček from 14 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Jan Jakob apologises between 15 o'clock and the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Jan Richter apologises, for family reasons, for the whole day and Mr Špičák wants to adjust his apology as follows: he apologises from 14 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons. Let me just remind you that factual remarks are not yet possible, because there is no open debate, but I note here factually, so it will only be necessary to apply it after the debate is opened. Now, then, a reminder for those who may have come back, that we are deciding whether to hold a general debate, a vote, that is, we are voting on leading it. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 5 registered 123 present, for 91, against none. The motion was accepted. We will therefore have a general debate on the proposal. I am therefore opening a general debate to which President Okamura, President Fiala, Vice-President Havlíček, claims with priority rights, followed by about eleven entries as you see them on the board. A point of fact should respond only to the speech of the previous speaker, Mr Member, so I assume that you will not respond until after he has been given the floor as soon as possible with priority rights, President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Petr Fiala after half a year, after more than half a year finally came to the House with some of its proposal to help citizens before increasing energy, but again quite inadequate. And I am already telling the citizens of the Czech Republic that you will see for yourself within a relatively short period of time that the Petr Fiala government will not help you solve your energy increases, because it simply is not competent to resolve it. Let's remember these words and you'll see in a few months that it just won't work. And you'll see it next year. And I'll do the same for why. The government, the government's energy package, is insufficient, as it does not remove the real causes of energy price increases. On the contrary, the SPD is offering real aid to citizens. I will, of course, take a closer look at this and introduce it. It is really incredible that such an important law, which should be addressed - and I deliberately say'should', because it does not actually solve the government proposal - which should address the price increase of energy and the resulting price increase of housing, food and everything else in the Czech Republic. Today, the government brought the House's economic committee to the start of the negotiations, which is why even after more than half a year they had nothing prepared in advance. And even now, at this point, we have five government amendments that are longer than the law itself. That means, it's a pasquil pasquil, the government is in absolute confusion, and basically the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing, and they've already gotten themselves mixed up in their proposals. Unfortunately, it is already suffering because of your government - and everyone sees it on energy bills that come every month, but also on food prices - all citizens of the Czech Republic suffer. So you're more than six months late compared to the surrounding countries. And even after today, and I would like to emphasise this as another thing at the outset, citizens of the Czech Republic will not know how much money you can actually help citizens. That means you've had a majority in the House since last October, we've had July, and even now, at this point, you're not able to tell the citizens if and how much you're going to support them so they can plan it now so they can figure it out a little bit. People want to go to camp or water or something, but you're still not able to give them the information now, so you're bringing more and more citizens into other problems and more. [[11.50 hours]] Members of the SPD will support this government energy package because any assistance to citizens during the social and economic crisis and the astronomical increase in all basic cost of living is needed and good. But a government solution in the form of a mere introduction of a new, basically one-off social benefits is quite inadequate and inadequate to the seriousness of the situation and, above all, does not remove the real causes of high energy prices. Moreover, the so-called contribution to the cost of electricity and gas, which is the main point of the government's proposal, as I have already said, is not financially concrete, even though this government coalition of Petr Fiala has already been in the government for three quarters of a year - yet you have not been able to complete it at all and is to be regulated by the government's subsequent regulation. Of course, we would like to be here, and the Minister has already said it here in his speech in order to specify it as quickly as possible, so it needs to be specified as soon as you are already half a year late, because all citizens of the Czech Republic have financial problems with this, with your government incompetence and inactivity, so again, the sooner, the better, the quickest. Unlike the incompetent Fialův government, the SPD has a comprehensive plan for a systemic reduction in energy prices. Firstly, we are clearly saying that it is necessary to withdraw from the disastrous EU Green Agreement, the so-called Green Deal. Furthermore, the Czech Republic needs to step out of the speculative system of trading in European Union emission allowances. It is also necessary for Czech electricity producers to sell electricity produced in our country first to Czech consumers at affordable prices and at the commodity exchange in Leipzig, Germany, within the European Union, only to supply its surpluses. We also say, let's buy natural gas directly from producers, just like Austria, Slovakia. Yes, they buy from Russia, but it does so democratic Austria, it does so democratic Hungary, so do the Němec, from which then overpriced gas here the Czech Republic basically pre-shops. And we say we buy it directly. In this context, let us renew the national gas importer - the privatisation of Transgas, the government of ČSSD with the support of the ODS. Furthermore, we say: cancel the solar tax and any subsidies that make electricity more expensive for consumers. Yes, we are finally here after half a year of calling, i.e. the government - it's not even in the law itself, but under the amendment, I don't know, so I don't know, you're running out of time, or I don't know that you didn't even realize it at the Ministry, and so now you've quickly stumbled into the amendment - so it's cancelled here that the so-called renewables fees will not be paid, but that's only on the basis of the SPD's six-month pressure. Furthermore, we say reduce VAT on energy, following the model of other states. We simply have a number of concrete proposals for solutions that would actually systemically address the situation. And I'll get back to you when somebody says I can't, okay? I know this language of yours, it doesn't, it doesn't, because the European Union - well, you wouldn't, it's just that you're setting up a mirror in this incredibly trivial situation that the Czech Republic has to ask foreigners in a foreign country thousands of miles away who don't even live with us, whether we can help Czech citizens at all. That's the fatal situation you've led us to, these governments of yours. Well, about how much money it's supposed to be financially, how much money you're actually going to help, that's what interests citizens - they're leaking some partial information. Now the Minister has said it, 15,000. But notice, I've seen it on TV more than once, now the Minister - but you'll never say if it's 15,000 once or a month. You're doing this on purpose so people think it might be more? Because from what we hear, it's supposed to be 15,000 in a one-time period. Yes, the Minister nods, so let's face it! I heard it both on TV from Minister Síkela and other government representatives, so today, I think you're saying this on purpose when you say 15,000 to make people think it can be up to 15,000 a month. It's not like that! Now the press and the media need to hear it. That means it's going to be CZK 1,000 a month in the finals, 1,500 a month? But the backups on the power and the like, they're going to double up! This means that your announced assistance doesn't actually solve the really hot situation of Czech households with the price increase, so let's just say here what we're talking about and how it is. So say it's 15,000 in about a season, maybe, or even a year? But you don't even know that you do, as we know from the negotiations on the Economic Committee as well as from the previous communication, with the speech of Minister Síkela from the STAN movement. So it's also necessary to say this so it doesn't camouflage here, like you're doing something and that you're really offering some major help - you're not offering. Not only do you solve the problem systemically, but even the one-off, basically, social benefit, is quite inadequate. Of course, it doesn't answer the question, what if the money runs out, so what you're going to do next, because the Czech budget is in total deficit, and you're saying that you're able to single-handedly give it, well, 1,000, 1500, 2,000 maybe households - you say 27 billion, some 3 billion to that central heating - we finally pushed you with the media and the SPD criticized it, because in the opening proposal, as you discussed, you completely forgot about 4 million people who live in panel houses and have central heating. I am so glad that you finally put it there based on the pressure of the SPD and other opposition parties so you put it there. I don't understand how you couldn't have thought of it when it comes to four million people, that it fell out of your original minds. This is unbelievable. Well, here comes the 15,000-per-season proposal, 16,000-per-season, well, we've got it, let's count it, so you're gonna help that home CZK 1,000 a month. But those energy suppliers want to pay on the citizens every month, the increased backups, so basically it's like spit in the sea in the finals. Well, I'm not even talking about when you run out of money, so what are you gonna do next, because your solution, that law of yours, doesn't offer a system solution. So the next one's just a welfare benefit? That's why we're proposing the SPD solutions here, and I'm going to sum them up. The SPD movement proposes a specific solution in the form of ten points, we introduced them a few months ago and I will repeat it here again, because gradually already individual countries, and I hear that the debate is starting, that these points are starting to be taken over, so that you don't take them in, that you may have come up with it, because the energy situation, with how it will get even more expensive, must simply force a sensible government to intervene more sooner or later in order to actually intervene in a systemic way and have already given up any ideology. I'll introduce the ten proposals, I've introduced them several times in these months on television. SPD proposals: Firstly, the withdrawal from the Green Deal of the European Union. Secondly, the withdrawal from the EU emission allowances system, which makes energy and raw materials more expensive. Thirdly - sale of cheap Czech electricity directly to Czech citizens and companies and through European - or EU rather - energy exchange only the sale of surpluses. It's called a social tariff. We are proposing to create a so-called social tariff, and I think that would be quite appropriate. And don't tell me you can't, because we're going to have some specific examples here - well, if you defend the interests of the Czech Republic, and not the European Union, Brussels or Berlin or Ukraine, or you defend the interests of German speculators, that's a problem. Fourth - the SPD proposal - we have it ten times - the renewal of the national gas importer and the purchase of cheap gas directly from producers, not through German traffickers, as is the case at present. About the fact that this is a certain legacy of privatization, the theft of the Czech Republic without consideration, the privatisation of strategic Czech infrastructure into the hands of foreign owners, I have already mentioned this, about the privatisation of Transgas. Of course, in contrast to that, let us look at Hungary. Innogy - many citizens of the Czech Republic do not even know that the Hungarian state is in Innoga, co-owner of Innoga. That's how the patriotic government behaves! They're still making money in the surrounding countries, because it's clear to the Maďar, Orbán, that the state has to keep its strategic infrastructure - oil, refineries. I'll get to that. [[12.00 hours]] Item number five proposed by the SPD - the renewal of the national oil processor. Unipetrol - Polák. Those previous governments have totally... let us rip this place apart. God knows who was responsible for what they had, even from their politicians. We don't know that, even though many criminal cases have already taken place, of course it has already been saved and many have been investigated too. But that's exactly what we're proposing. Sixthly, the abolition of the solar tax and any subsidies that make electricity more expensive for consumers. I'm glad here that after a few months of pushing it, and we've repeatedly presented it in the media, at least the government, after enormous opposition pressure - at least here it's moving a little bit, but it's a few hundred a month. [[The rapporteur's response.]] Mr. Colleague, Chairman of the Adamč committee, well, you say, just a few hundred of it, but the increase is multiple, as we know. So it's a good thing you listened to our appeal like that, but it's still insufficient, which is why I'm saying this set of proposals. Seventh - ensuring food security and support for Czech farmers and food professionals. Yes, it also has something to do with this problem, because, of course, energy increases are also reflected in the price of food, but also in building materials, just everything - everything that is. And maybe you don't even think about this aspect of it, that food is getting expensive and that it has everything to do with everything. But right now, I could make a long comment on the context, but now I'm going to focus on the energy and SPD proposals. For the eighth - a temporary reduction in VAT for energy, fuel, basic food and medicines and a reduction in the price of these commodities. Yes, that's the so-called austerity tariff, but you took it your way, the so-called austerity tariff. You guys have essentially taken this one-off social benefit, but I think that the solution that we are proposing here would be much more effective, and that is exactly the way it does in the surrounding countries of Poland, but also in the Western countries, I will still get to it, and that is where VAT is being reduced. So that's the so-called austerity tariff, yeah, but it's an austerity tariff that's different from what you've just come up with. Indeed, we propose that it really helps people. Nine - a reduction in the State's inefficient spending. We could talk about that here for a long time. And for the tenth time - without a doubt, it would also be appropriate to compare the conditions of domestic and foreign companies operating in the Czech Republic, to introduce a sector tax, such as for multinational internet giants - Google, Facebook and so on - which generate huge profits in the Czech Republic without taxation in the Czech Republic, and it would also be good to introduce taxation of non-taxed dividends from the Czech Republic by multinational corporations. But we gave this proposal in the last parliamentary term, and then Babišův's government wrote back to us: but that is against the European Union. Well, that's great. We can have up to 75 billion in the budget, and because the European Union does not want it, and both the previous Babišův government and the current filový government defend the interests of multinational corporations instead of Czech interests, there is no money in the finals. And here we hear from Minister Jurečka, we hear from the government that they want to increase taxes for Czech citizens, and we are unacceptable to the SPD and we are fundamentally opposed to increasing taxes for Czech citizens and Czech companies. For that, the SPD will never raise the vote, because we can look elsewhere for reserves. And that's what I've just said here, it can be taxed on tax-free dividends to multinational corporations, that's up to 75 billion. After all, we have already proposed here this year to humiliate payments to the European Union by 30 billion. The House voted on it, you rejected it. So there's 100 billion right here, right now it could be on the table. But you just don't want to do it because you can say literally sold out to foreign interests and is not for you a Czech citizen and the Czech Republic in the first place as it is for the SPD. Yes, so this is the ten SPD proposals that if we had implemented, so I am convinced and we are convinced of it, and it is also after consulting experts looking at foreign countries that it would be a longer-term solution, and above all it would be a more sustainable solution than a one-time social benefit, where it basically has no systemic continuation. Of course, the possibility of declaring a state of energy emergency, for that we are, it is certainly a suitable proposal, but again it is delayed, I will then comment. Hungary announced yesterday a ban on energy exports precisely because they declared a state of energy emergency. And we hear well - a ban on energy exports. This means - by the way, the measure will start to apply from August and is to prepare the country for the coming winter. And what does the totally incompetent, European Union and Germany sold out by the Czech government of Petr Fiala do? We have enough electricity here, and instead of first meeting the needs of Czech citizens and Czech companies - and we are producing electricity from coal power plants, I have here in notes, 15 cents per kilowatt hour, sorry, from the core of 15 cents, from coal power plants I suspect 25 cents - but on European, at the EU commodity exchange we are getting up to CZK 8 per kilowatt hour. So where are we? Where are we? So right here, I'd like to know that if you have the opportunity to declare an emergency, we'll support it, but to work with it in full, too. Hungary, once again, has declared a ban on energy exports, and in addition, the Hungarian government Viktor decided to increase domestic brown coal production to the highest possible level, which supplies the obsolete but functional Mátra power plant, and its planned closure will be abolished. But here the Czech government of Petr Fiala is still bowing to the European Union's Green Deal. You've even approved here and approved a ban on internal combustion engines since 2035, thus throwing a number of our low-income citizens into trouble that they might not be able to get a car. Not to mention the question, if all Czech cars were currently traded for electric cars, we all know we don't have the capacity to recharge. So how do you want to handle this? That's just one problem after another that's completely out of the question here. So you guys have still screwed up with this vote, I believe from last week, you've really screwed up the citizens of the Czech Republic, not to mention the economic impact of our industry being dependent on the automotive industry, and I'm not just talking about the economy, I'm talking about losing jobs. How do you think about this? I asked that question a few months ago, and no one from the government answered me how it was going to be. And it's been 2035, which means there's some kind of run-up, so it's basically behind the lobsters when I say it around and around. So it doesn't matter at all, and there's no answer to these questions at all. By the way, if I go back to Hungary, the ban on the export of energy sources also applies to firewood. Hungary is really taking this from the bottom. But here we do not hear any discussion or suggestions from the government on this subject. What we are hearing is that Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his government politicians are still lying to people, that it is impossible to change and that the European Union... Well, look at Hungary, it's possible! And let's not talk about how much it costs now and how much it costs now. These are all moving things. Now I'm talking about some kind of system, some kind of forceful system solution. So I'd hate to hear the arguments in a possible reaction here: Look how their prices jumped and how it was there... We all have problems in Europe now, we agree. Nobody here says they don't have them, or somebody does, and somebody doesn't, and I'm giving bad examples here. It's not like that, I'm giving the right examples. But I'm talking about a solution system versus your one-time social benefit, which we will, of course, support - again I say at least some money is better than nothing. But if you had to proceed to the implementation of these SPD system proposals that I have named here in our tenure, I know that it would not like Germany and Brussels, whose interests are defended by the government of Petr Fiala, the interests of Brussels, Berlin, Washington, Ukraine. But we do not defend the interests of Moscow, Brussels, Washington. I am interested in maintaining a good standard of living for Czech citizens and in the crisis it is really necessary to think first of all about Czech citizens. On the contrary, I was the one who said in the last parliamentary term - it was the SPD, we said it here with Radim Fiala repeatedly, with our Vice-President - that we should not be dependent on Russia. On the contrary, we rejected dependence on Russia. We said, "Let's build energy self-sufficiency, let's diversify!" And I remember well how the representatives of the current five-police government here, who were in opposition last term as we were, laughing at us here, saying that the SPD is saying something that is not needed, that the European Union will take care of the European Commission. He won't! You can all see it! In the finals, we have to take care of... When collecting money, it cares, yeah, collecting money. But in a crisis, whether we've seen it in the supply of material, at the very beginning of the crisis, or we're seeing it now, we all have to take care of ourselves anyway. And what good is your partner, even in your personal human life, who if it's haha hihi, everything is beautiful, but when you get sick or you have a problem, he turns his back on you and doesn't spoonfully put food in your mouth in the hospital because he's not gonna like it anymore. What's the point of relationships like that? So that is what this is about, and that is what we see here in this crisis - what is the point of a partner who can't help quickly in a crisis because he can't help because he doesn't have it, the European Union just doesn't have the skills, the capacity, the will, it doesn't even care about it. [[12.10 hours]] Let's move on. Well, speaking of government priorities, Petr Fiala, because the money is only one, it really is absolutely incredible how the government of Petr Fiala, behind our backs, has nodded to the entire EU loan to restore Ukraine of EUR 9 billion these days, for which EU countries, including the Czech Republic, must borrow in the form of bonds guaranteed by EU Member States. And remember, I asked this question here in plenary two months ago. The Prime Minister didn't respond, he didn't say anything, he kept it from people. Government MPs also kept quiet, hiding this incredible betrayal on the citizens of the Czech Republic. So we are borrowing on a loan from Ukraine that no one wants to borrow anymore, because according to the European Court of Auditors, which is an EU advisory body, Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. 9 billion euros! EU joint bonds - two years ago, even by 2057 - Andrej Babiš indebted us again in his government, we are already paying off a huge bond loan, where again it was necessary to guarantee Italy, Spain, which no one wanted to lend to anymore. So that's debt to debt, that's a debt union. And you're throwing us into more and more debt here, all citizens of the Czech Republic, and then logically there's no money to help Czech citizens in a crisis. Well, logically! The worst part is, you guys, this debt from those bonds - I'm curious, I'm not... I do not have a full account - but that will be one deficit as a state and then EU bonds. That means debt to debt and it's going to look like the debt is even lower than it really is, it's just completely awful, awful where you're leading the Czech Republic. And what I'm saying is that from the money, from the joint bonds you nodded to, the government of Petr Fiala, to the reconstruction of Ukraine, this money will be paid to Ukraine by the end of July. Well, that's... What's that supposed to mean? So the money to help Czech citizens is not expensive, but you are literally spending billions on Ukraine. And the European Commission is counting on Ukraine's 25-year loans, so the bottomless corrupt pit - and this is what the European Court of Auditors, the EU advisory body, says, and even adds a sentence to Ukraine that the billions that have been pumped into Ukraine before the conflict have not led to an increase in the standard of living in Ukraine precisely because of the outrageous and unbridled corruption in Ukraine. It's crazy what you do - at the expense of Czech citizens. And the subject has surfaced now - because Petr Fiala's government is still hiding from us here and doesn't want to answer this - because the only Germany that is the biggest guarantor of this bond form is suddenly opposed and doesn't want to agree to it, even though it has agreed to it in advance. And I say to the SPD - and I will return immediately to those energies - that the SPD movement is fundamentally opposed to sending money for the reconstruction of Ukraine, for which the Czech Republic still has to borrow. Petr Fiala's government is literally doing a treasonous policy - instead of Prime Minister Fiala helping Czech citizens to increase energy, food, housing and fuel, so the government is helping Ukrajinec, and it is also indebting our republic! This is one of many reasons, not only the huge scandal about organized crime in government parties, but this is another reason why Petr Fiala's government should end immediately, because millions of Czech citizens are already getting into huge financial problems because of you, and it will only get worse, just looking at this energy package, it is more or less clear. Either you do everything with huge debt growing, and you endlessly make excuses for everything that's caused it, but people can't hear it anymore. And I'm gonna go back to the fact that people can't hear it anymore. I have statistics here. He can't hear it anymore, for this bullshit of yours. Just you are in the government, you are in charge, you are in full responsibility, you are in charge, you are in charge of everything, you are in charge of all the financial problems of Czech citizens only one person is responsible, and this is the government of the Czech Republic and the government of the ODS coalition, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. There is no one else who is the culprit of problems in the Czech Republic. And if you can't figure it out, step back. That's what we call you here repeatedly. Let's move on. As I say, the Fialův Government does not address the growing energy crisis in the Czech Republic. And now I want to get to the examples of, for example, governments in Europe, other governments in Europe, how they help their citizens. So let's take a look at fuel. Our citizens, working families, entrepreneurs, and companies are crushing ever-increasing fuel prices, and while governments in neighbouring countries and throughout Europe are taking systemic measures that mitigate the effects of high gasoline and diesel prices on their citizens, the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS clearly does not worry about this situation and keeps our citizens and companies in the lurch. The government has introduced only a ridiculous short-term reduction in excise duty on fuel with effect from 1 June to 30 September, but only by a mere crown of fifty per litre. And remember, as we said here at the time, we at the SPD didn't feel like people wouldn't feel this discount at all. Well, we were right, of course. People don't even see the 50 crown discount, because of course - that's so ridiculous! I told you you wouldn't fool people with this. And, of course, people are smart, citizens know what to do, so of course it was enough to refuel a few times, and they've already seen that it's complete nonsense that he's put through what Prime Minister Petr Fiala from the ODS has done here with a year-to-year coalition government. And you were making excuses here: yes, but the European Union, the European Commission will not allow us to lower the excise tax by more than a crown of fifty, two crowns per litre. But I told you not to lie. What excise duty? After all, 50 percent of the fuel price makes a combination of excise duty and VAT and you did not even touch VAT. You're trying to make fools of people again, while we were talking about VAT. And I don't understand why you bullshit people like that. And why - I am going to say this now - have they just reduced VAT in European countries, not excise duty? Because, of course, they could have paid a higher discount on VAT. Mr. Adamec says they've landed, too. Well, if Germany's going to be worse off than we are... [[Ambassador Adamec notes something off the microphone.]] Well, wait, let's look at this complex again, yeah, let's look at this complex, you always pull out one segment. But let's look at the standard of living there and onde and where we could have been in 30 years. And in 30 years they were most often in ODS, CSSD and KDU-ČSL, so now don't rip out here and now the thing that concerns a few days when in 30... At the time, I remember, I was when the Velvet Revolution was 17, and we all remember that sentence - now I don't know if Prime Minister Václav Klaus said it then - and he said that in twenty years we would be like Austria. Now I don't know exactly who said it, but it was in the '90s, and in 20 years we'll be like Austria. We've all been looking forward to it, but it didn't work out because it's been stolen in the meantime, those governments had the republic stolen. So just about Germany. Germany reduced the energy tax on petrol by 7 CZK per litre a while ago, by 3.50 per litre for diesel. Poland has already reduced value added tax for motor fuels in the spring from 23 percent to 8 percent. In November of last year, Hungary has already reduced fuel prices to a maximum of CZK 32 per litre. Well, when somebody's arguing with some Maďarsko. Look, I think our citizens would really welcome it, even if it was a limit of 100 grand on our citizens if they could gas up cheaply. So these screams, and there was a limit and a line at the pump... Look, I think, unlike you guys doing nothing, it's always an even better option at the moment. Since March, Belgium has abolished the payment of value added tax on fuel. Since March, Italy has reduced value added tax on fuel by CZK 6 per litre. From April to four months, France has reduced value added tax for fuel by 4 crowns per litre. And I could go on like this. So I just wanted to say here that we don't get caught up in any controversy that isn't important from my point of view, because the European states have been precisely approaching VAT reductions, because that is where the reduction is more powerful. That's what I wanted to talk about. And Fialův's government has been refusing to put in place comprehensive measures all along. [[12.20 hours]] Now, finally, after you've been in government for six months - more than six months in government, or six months, you're only coming up with something, but, as I say, again, quite inadequate. Not to mention, because of inflation and higher prices, VAT is also increasing, so extra money has landed in your budget in the order of tens of billions, and here I think it would be fair in the context of the comprehensive package that I am talking about and which you are not suggesting to return to citizens in a certain form of the money as compensation. And instead, you spend billions, as we know, on the restoration of Ukraine. Yes, so the citizens rightly call you the Ukrainian government and that Petr Fiala is the Ukrainian Prime Minister. So they are pleased in Ukraine to have such a prime minister. But I'm sure we're not happy about this. And I'm saying we, because now I'm going to move on to the research. It's a survey, a few days old survey from last week. It is a survey of the renowned STEM agency, which is often quoted in the media. According to 84 percent of citizens, Petr Fiala's government is quite inadequate in preventing the increase in poverty. Moreover, 65 percent of citizens fear the decline in their standard of living and poverty. So when someone here in response to my performance will say that you're dealing with it and you're helping, look, you can tell me that a hundred times here, but also from the STEM survey, which was presented in the media, it is clear what the citizens of the Czech Republic think about your inaction. So there is no need for you to attack me here, as is the custom of some government MPs - desperate attacks that have no head and no heel - but answer the citizens. Answer the polls, will you? Citizens clearly feel that the government is not proposing a solution, 84 percent of the citizens. Only 16 percent of citizens think you're proposing this enough. Well, that's a pretty rusty report card after half a year of the government's operation, and especially in the context of an energy crisis we've known about since at least last fall, that means all the time you've had a majority in the House. So if I continue to do this survey, the survey shows that eight out of ten people already have to limit their needs because of high energy and fuel prices. That's where you made it. Eight out of ten people already have to limit their needs because of you and your government's inactivity, that's crazy. And I'm saying again, here can only be the answer to demise, just leaving, because seeing what you've created in six months, this energy - you call it tax - package doesn't just help people out of poverty. You're not helping, unfortunately, that's the way it is, and we see it. The threat of poverty and the need to reduce their basic needs in life result from this survey of the current, most sensitive impact on seniors and citizens over the age of 60, of which - from that group over the age of 60 - 89 percent already says that it must be greatly humbled. Furthermore, the STEM survey shows that half of the surveyed citizens - half of the surveyed citizens! - she said she's not getting along with her current income. It is a disgraceful business card of the disastrous operation of the government of Petr Fiala, which absolutely does not address the difficult situation, the difficult social and economic situation of Czech citizens and families, and you call financial assistance to Ukraine and Ukrajinec as your priority under the EU Presidency. That's really unbelievable. When I saw the Czech Republic's priorities within the Presidency of the European Union in the EU Council, I did not believe in my eyes that you of the five priorities - one, two, three, four, five - put Ukraine's reconstruction first as a priority 1. This means that the Czech Republic is not in the first place for you. Well, now somebody's saying, "Yeah, but that must be priorities for the whole EU." But then why did you lie all the time - but I pointed it out - that as the Czech Republic, you would have a chance to push for something? So you're just whistling about how they dictate to you in Brussels, and you're not able to enforce anything at all. And this is absolutely unbelievable, the priorities of Petr Fiala's government, said the restoration of Ukraine first - now, in a huge financial and social crisis in the Czech Republic. There's no point in this, your government doesn't really make sense, it doesn't make sense to the citizens of the Czech Republic, it's quite obvious. So I'd move on, but let's put it in contrast again. So you supported the idea of giving EUR 9 billion to Ukraine as a restoration of Ukraine, yes? This is what you support here on the one hand and on the other hand we have here - for six months now the SPD has been trying to block here - a law where you take CZK 14 billion to health insurance companies, which, of course, threatens to increase the availability of health care for Czech citizens, and at the same time the working and pay conditions of our health professionals are deteriorating. So you take Czech citizens and you make their living conditions worse and you move them to Ukraine. And that's nothing against Ukraine, but it's just a priority -- yes, in every country, even in Ukraine, there are a lot of good people and hardworking people everywhere, that's all right, but I'm talking about priorities, okay? So no one has anything, that maybe Ukrajinec is bad or he's bad, Američan or somebody, that's not, that's not what this is about. It's about priorities. There are good people all over the world, sure, but - I've traveled a lot of countries, privately, of course, for my money, and I've seen it before entering politics, but now I don't have time for it - so I just want to say that these are the priorities. So you take CZK 14 billion from health insurance companies and threaten the availability of health care for Czech citizens. We managed to block that, this proposal of yours on Friday, but you moved it back to next week on Wednesday. We've already built it here, the proposal, because the SPD just doesn't want to allow for a deterioration in the availability of health care for our citizens, and we don't want to allow for a deterioration in the salary and working conditions of our paramedics. On the one hand, you are not able to help Czech citizens in any way and you are still in debt to the Czech Republic and you are sending our money as a priority to Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned, I've basically summed up our view. Here I'd like to briefly plot what's here today, because it's on the board. So instead of addressing the help of the citizens of the Czech Republic as a priority, you are giving a point here today - we see it here today and we see your priorities here - you are giving here that the Fialův Government with a change of law, you are trying to complete here the political control of Czech Television and Czech Radio. Well, that's... really, I'm not enough to stare. So you're trying to push the correspondence choices on the agenda here, which allows - because your citizens' trust is falling, and so you're trying to at least allow - manipulation and fraud in elections, because some parties, or most government parties, according to the last SANEP survey, most government parties are already below 5%, right? The folks there are 3 %, STAN, he was already below 5% - well, after the organized crime, I'm not surprised anymore, yes - and then there's the TOP 09, there's an oscillation of 3% in the survey, so of course you're trying to adjust your electoral law to increase your chances of staying here, that's your priorities. And now we're supposed to be on the agenda here today, even though we're here to deal with the help of energy-expensive citizens, which your energy package doesn't offer to a sufficient degree, so here you're also suggesting that you want a change in the way the Czech Television, Czech Radio control councils are elected to change it so that it loses legitimacy, the board, and in order to lose it essential, the basic task that it should be to represent all the major currents of opinion. And that is the definition that there is for the board to represent all the main currents of opinion in the Czech society, which the Senate does not meet - as you propose that the Senate should also vote for it - because senators elect 10 percent of the citizens, so the greatest legitimacy logically is only the Chamber of Deputies - the highest voter turnout, of course, which has the highest voter turnout, and of course here it is logically the main cross-section of opinions in society. But you are trying to bend it so that you - to politicize and dominate politically the whole Czech TV, Czech Radio - can also get this media on your hand if possible. [[12.30 hours]] So these are your priorities. Of course, we do not agree with them, because we are telling you to help people with their problems. So stop with all these suggestions of yours that are supposed to just concrete your corsets, see now the service law we had here, when you even put an unlimited number of political representatives in the ministry and cancel the professional deputy so that you, your minister, can easily give yourself ten Deputys, five, ten Deputys from among your political friends and traders for 100 to 150,000 a month, to drain the public register as much as possible. So these are your designs that you're doing here, and versus these are the SPD proposals and the opposition when we're pushing you: help people. That's what the government is for. But it's not your idea to help people. I mean, that's what House President Mrs. Pekarová Adamová said, that the government isn't here for people and that people are supposed to help themselves. No wonder you're doing it this way! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Foldyna, who has just... He's already in the hall. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I made a point of fact. I already wanted to speak to the Minister and my colleague, the Chairman of the Economic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend you. It's quite genius to perform like this. When I listened to you, that was incredible. These are political declarations and no facts. In fact, you were the first to declare the economic war! You guys put her on emission charges and Green Deal. You declared it against your own citizens who have to pay for it all and paid for it! Then the crisis came in Ukraine and you heroically went to war, took your slingshot and went to the tank. And how did that turn out? You shot up your own people! Look at the result. You have nothing! You've got nothing! You didn't win anything! You haven't moved anywhere except for the fact that you've miserable half of the nation! You didn't do anything, you're making a political statement here. You know how people laughed, in the 1950s they made up verses and jokes and said: Zdeněk Nejedlý says: We will build Prague a new and nicer and closer to Moscow. And this is what your speeches look like, exactly the same, except not closer to Moscow, but you'd prefer to build it behind Washington. You're just a colonial government, you don't own anything today. What gas tanks? You don't have any! What gas distribution? You don't have one! We've become an absolute colony. We sell electricity thanks to the European Union on the stock market and buy it back six times the price! This is your war, but not against Putin, but against your own citizens. And now you're worried about what people are gonna say. You say Putin, go with Putin... The public is mad at you, not Putin! [[The time, Mr. Congressman, is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u15	Mr Ondřej Kolář is signed up with another de facto, so I will ask him, and Minister Marian Jurečka can prepare himself - also with a de facto one. Then there are priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know where to start. I was here taking notes when Mr Okamura spoke. By your means, Madam President, I do not think, Mr Member - he is not here, aha - that this government would be responsible for all the problems of our citizens. I have a lot of problems, and I really wouldn't dare accuse the government of all the problems I have. Putting Hungary as a good example, I wouldn't do that. If I'm not mistaken, people have a bit of a problem with the fact that petrol is practically there for rations, and Viktor Orbán's measures aren't exactly popular. The flat aid you're talking about: I don't know why we should be helping across the board. I don't want any help. I want help to be for those who really need it. And as far as you're saying here, the government is hurting everything and putting our citizens at risk. I fear that this government has done much more for the country's energy security and self-sufficiency than the previous governments. As an example, I will mention, for example, the acquisition at Škoda Nuclear Engineering by ČEZ, the lease of LNG terminals in the Netherlands, which has the potential to provide a third gas consumption of our Republic, negotiations on connection to the Polish pipeline and so on. I think leaving Green Deal would be a big mistake. I understand Green Deal as a challenge, not a threat. I think it is necessary to move forward and not make our country a museum where in 30 years cars will be running on diesel, which will not be at that time, or if it does, it will cost 100 kroner per liter. And as far as you're concerned, we're all gonna freeze to death in the winter. I think it should be our job not to scare people, but to try to keep them in good mind and explain to them that although this winter may be hard, we are doing everything we can to make sure that the others aren't hard anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u17	Time... Thank you. And now the last de facto Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Good noon, Madam President, colleagues. Here I listened to Tomio Okamura's performance, so it was the traditional repertoire he's been dating for years, and unfortunately, for some voters it's something they believe, but unfortunately it's lies because he comes and haunts and haunts and says scripts and things that just aren't objectively true. If we're talking about the energy situation, that's been said repeatedly here today. The government is taking concrete steps, we are correcting the mistakes of previous governments to ensure enough energy here, especially enough gas for the winter. We took those steps. The capacity of terminals in the Netherlands has been mentioned, the transit route to the Czech Republic, Minister Síkela and Minister Stanjura discussing that we have the commodity secured abroad. You guys have supported increasing dependence on Russia for years, you've stood here two years ago and convinced us how great it is to give Dukovan's completion here, the expansion of Dukovan's suppliers from Russia! Why don't you say it? Why don't you say what you've done in the last eight years to support the security and diversification of energy resources for Czech citizens? Nothing! Zero! You lobbied for Russia and China! So be quiet, because you have butter on your head in an incredible way! We're trying to catch up on these things. When we talk about the situation of citizens in this country, yes, it is not easy for some people, but there is a social system that helps 1.4 million people each month in the amount of more than 9 billion crowns. We help and we are ready to help others who will need help in terms of both the cost-saving tariff and the social system. We have the lowest unemployment rate in all EU countries. That's the basis for social reconciliation for people to have a job, and whoever wants to work here today has a job. When we look at the proportion of people who are now in income poverty or at risk of poverty, we have the best figures from all over the European Union. Yes, we have something to improve, but we're really trying. [[Time! Time, please!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. If necessary, I would like to ask for such consideration of the vocal intensity. And there have been written factual ones that take precedence over the application from the post, so Mr Milan Feranec with the facts, Mr Robert králíček and then Mr Kobza from the post. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond to Mr Kolář. He said he didn't want any general help. So, Ambassador, when you get it, if we pass the law, the government's order, when you get the invoice where the discount is, I assume you'll return it and insist on paying the full price. If that's how it is, then it's okay, I guess it's just gonna be a little bit of a mess. So only because this is an area measure, but you can probably reject it individually. I assume you'll keep us informed later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u21	Please, through me. As far as the order is concerned, the requests for a factual one have been added, and now, therefore, Mr Robert králíček, then Mr Tom Philipp can prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u22	Madam Vice-President, Government, colleagues, I would like to respond to Minister Jurečka. Minister, you've been in government for eight years, and I don't remember you, as folklore, specifically on something when you ruled, pointing out that there's a need to change or that the government is doing something wrong. So don't lecture us here about what to do in energy, and you better think about how to help the paramedics! That's where you failed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Tom Philipp, with his point of view, will be prepared by Mr Ondřej Kolář and then again by the Minister. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I do not speak often, but through Madam President, the horrors that Mr Foldyna has unleashed out of his mouth here, the prank talk about a flag of war being raised here. [[12.40 hours]] Where would we be today if the brave government of the Czech Republic - and if they had not joined it, or she was not one of those that initiated the whole European Union's procedure, including the US, where would we be today? We'd have a Rusák in the lobsters who would've already brushed his teeth to throw himself at us. So please, Mr. Foldyna, get a grip, sit on your bike and go to Russia with the Russian Vlk. Hey.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Now Mr Ondřej Kolář and then Mr Kolář is still on the ground with Mr Kobza. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly, very briefly, by your means, Madam President, my colleague. I don't have a problem with gas, because we have an induction board at home, we're drowning with electricity, and we have a heat pump, so luckily I don't have a problem with gas. If it were about me, I would proceed exactly the way you said it would be, because personally it would be very embarrassing for me to take some money from the state to survive, because I don't have the problems. I understand that there are people here who have these problems, those who are supposed to have the support. For people like me, that support can't be intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping up the time, and now, if there is still interest, there is another one, Mr Král in writing, so it takes precedence again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. Then I'll try to sum it up for some more complex talk. However, Mr Kolář, by mouth, Madam President, you are taking the support of a heat pump through a tariff structure where you pay less than your grandmother in distribution, which warms up the water in the kettle with the same electricity, so you cannot say that you are not taking - that is the first thing. [[A round of applause from the ANO movement.]] And to Green Deal - that Germany was wrong about stepping away from the core and coal, and now they're publicly declaring it, and they've put everything on Russian cheap gas, and now they're admitting it, doesn't mean they're not wrong now that they're in charge of putting a higher level of Green Deal in their Energiewende.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u29	Thank you A came from Mr Kobza's seat. Please, your two minutes with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I've listened to a lot of interesting remarks here, but what I haven't heard, what people are supposed to pay for gas and electricity. I have not heard a single word on the subject that if Nord Stream 1 and South Stream do not work, that there is therefore Nord Stream 2, which is ready, pressurized, just turn the valve and the gas will flow, which prevents some administrative obstacles and, of course, the position of the United States, because they know that the moment Nord Stream 2 is launched, the European market will definitely close for their overpriced gas. I didn't hear a word about why the Němec were buying a cubicle for CZK 6 and Minister Síkela bought it for CZK 37. I'm very interested. And as for ordinary people who are starting to worry, I liked the remark made by Minister Jurečka that the number of people who are addicted to doses has increased. You've done a really good job, this, that's really good for a progressive government. So please, let's just stay on the ground and stick to representing people's interests, taking care of ordinary people so that they can survive at all, because cutting off energy sources without having an adequate and full-fledged substitute source can only do that completely - as I would say diplomatically - amateur. And people will take it and they won't forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u31	In fact, once again from the point of view, Mr. Foldyna is reporting, so your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for your word. I will speak through you, and to the Member who has asked me here to move to Russia to the Night Wolves. My colleague, I rode the graves of their grandfathers and great-grandfathers who liberated this country with the Night Wolves. You go to Landsmannschaft to those who brought 360 000 Čechoslovák to the execution site. [[Very strong voice.]] [[President: Please, through me.]] You guys are terrible!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u33	I beg you to observe this dignified environment. We are returning to applications, and therefore factual, Mr Tom Philipp. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u34	Mr Foldyna, through Madam President, did you really see me at a convention like this? You were talking to me. In conclusion, watch what you said. You said, "You're terrible." So please think about it and don't talk to me like that again!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u35	I really ask for respect for a dignified environment and a dignified course of action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u36	I will hold back, Madam President, to my colleague, through you. I apologize to him if you, as the people's party, your leaders, are conspiring with Landsmannschaft and with the people who are responsible, their ancestors, thousands of our fellow citizens. I was only on the graves of those who freed this country. My parents were in the camp in Wiener Neustadt, probably not yours. You have a completely different opinion! This is where you build the monuments to the hairdressers, here are the banderes, but you're fucking sick of some Rus coming here to put flowers on the graves of their great-grandfathers and grandfathers who liberated this country! [[Very strong voice.]] That's all that Foldyna did! He rode a motorcycle on the graves of the liberators of this country. Where your leaders go, it's crap!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u37	And so I must say that this goes beyond the common customs in this hall. I'm really asking for that dictionary and respect for the dignity of the negotiations here. We are now approaching duly registered priority rights, and that is the first one here is President Radim Fiala with his priority right, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček, and then we would proceed to duly signed up in the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize in advance for my voice indisposition, so I hope I can manage. Let me say one more time about Minister Jurečka, your way - or I don't really have to do that when he's a minister - what he said here, how he's always pushing us into Russia, not just Minister Jurečka, but also another way to kick us over to Putin and tell him about the SPD: You're the ones who... Gentlemen, I tell you once and for all, if this were true, Biska has already told you or written it in Reflex or on the News List. Nothing like this has ever happened. We have no contact with them, and we never got a bottle of vodka from them. Once and for all. Just so you know, we have and defend Czech national interests, we are not interested in any other interests, neither in Brussels, nor in Washington, nor in Moscow. I am convinced that Orbán is doing the same thing, and the near future will show us. To Mr. Minister Jurečka. I was... He said we were pushing Russia into the Dukovany tender. Yes, it's true. Not that we were pushing them, we wanted them to participate - for one simple reason, because if Russia and China were involved, there would be five participants, and it would significantly increase competition and reduce price. That price was then estimated at 150 billion for two new blocks of Dukovan. Today, the price after Russia's and China's elimination, where it was clearly stated in the treaty that whenever we could eliminate both of them, and of course any aggression and violation of international law would not only allow it, but it would be an obligation for us, but it could reduce prices, so today of the 150 billion for two blocks of Dukovan, we're going to pay maybe 350 billion, maybe 500 billion in total, because the three of them can do nothing more than agree. One's gonna build it, the other's gonna build it, and the other's gonna build it, and the other's gonna build it, and it's gonna be like that. And I'm afraid it's been a purpose from the very beginning to take out the Rus and the Číňan. We could have eliminated them now, after processing the offers, because you talked about it before the aggression and the violation of international law, and I would be the first to raise my hand to eliminate at least Russia, because of course it is a security threat, what happened, and it is unthinkable that such a country should be involved in building a nuclear power plant. So it made sense for them to submit bids, increase competition, lower the price. [[12.50 hours]] The SPD's been talking about energy security for years. You guys were always laughing at us, you were always joking, because - and today the minister was talking about it - because there is some European solidarity here, and if we don't have it, they're gonna send it to us. So I'm telling you, there's no European solidarity, they don't send us anything, and you can have it in writing black in white, and they still don't send you anything when it comes out of fat to thin. So just so you know, and in a few months, I'm worried, and I don't wish we'd witnessed it. But I was pleased by Mr Kolář, who I thought would be ideological output on the side of Russia, but he was really talking about energy and these things. I can say that I was pleased, although his view was a liberal expression, a liberal view, different from our conservative view, but at least that was the case, and I am talking about it because the energy crisis did not actually start with the war in Ukraine, but it has already flowed like a red thread since the beginning or just after 2000 changes in the European Union's energy concept. Let me comment on the Government's proposal to amend the Energy Act, which has undergone more than thirty amendments since 2001. Most of them have been changes to the worse, because they have gradually transposed into our legal system the so-called first, second and third energy package of the European Union, which, in my view, are the root causes of today's astronomically high energy prices, and it mainly concerns electricity that has completely distorted and distorted our energy market. Yes, it has been going on for 15 years, and the situation is getting worse and now completely unbearable. Of course, this government will tell us that it is a war in Ukraine, that it is Russia, that it is Putin and so on. This, of course, contributes to this, but the origin of increased energy prices is in the European Union's energy concept. The last blow to the ligament of households and companies and all energy, electricity and gas customers, i.e. in practice all of us, are, of course, the new European Union legislation that has dominated the crazy so-called climate targets. And it's not just the famous Green deal. This is the nail in the coffin of the competitiveness of European industry and agriculture. This is the end of thousands of jobs, that is the real threat of energy poverty, that is the decline in living standards of honest-working citizens by several orders. We're already witnessing it. It's not about science fiction. koneckonců all, some agencies say that already two million Czech citizens are below the threshold of energy poverty. The European Union's independent and very trivial and tragic sub-chapter of those energy packages is a massive and almost criminal support for electricity production from so-called renewable sources, i.e. hundreds of million tunnels into public budgets and the source of fairytale livelihoods of solar and other barons. And, of course, it is another cause and source of energy price growth. And I can't mention all this closely related emission allowance trading system, maybe I'd rather say emissions allowance trading, because what might at first look like Godly activity, environmental protection, has turned into something incredible. It is nothing more than the equivalent of the sale of medieval indulgences, the Green Religious Twilight project, and, more importantly, the source of an incredible richness in this system of connected speculators and businessmen, and the cause of the rise in energy commodity prices. In order to survive here, for example, in our central Moravia sugar factory, America's pension funds are richer, to which the sugar factory - which buy, for example, these emission allowances. Selected speculators are getting richer, Čech, but also other Evropan, unprivileged workers, businessmen, entrepreneurs, rapidly poor. Guilty? The European Commission, namely the European Union and its membership, or the unwillingness of all Czech governments since 2004 to simply say 'no' and to withdraw from this crazy carousel, to veto these extremely harmful decisions at European summits, not to submit to them, to shout and to beat the alarm and to pursue their own energy policy, to take care of their own energy self-sufficiency and security, at least like Maďar, not to kneel before Brussels and Berlin. The government's proposed legislation today aims to allegedly reduce the price of electricity and natural gas to final customers in so-called exceptional market situations. Here I am pointing out and stressing what I was talking about a while ago. There is no standard market in the field of energy, i.e. an exceptional, completely non-market situation, a situation that is the product of crazy non-market and conducting green Eurounitarian planning, green agreements and other plans dictating Member States how much electricity must produce from renewable sources in five, ten or fifteen years, as much as they can ever produce emissions and so on. This has nothing to do with the market. Rather, it revives and, unfortunately, overcomes memories of former five-year-olds and RVHP: we order wind, rain, sun and biomass. Moreover, this is not an exceptional situation in the sense of time, it is a one-time, more or less random situation. No, unfortunately, it's a long-term situation, and if we don't do anything about it, it's gonna be permanent and even worse. We at the SPD can never accept that. Therefore, in no way do we consider it to be a solution to this serious and fundamental situation and we cannot consider the so-called government austerity tariff, which in translation is nothing more than a one-off social benefit for part of electricity and gas users, for which we do not even know its specific parameters yet, all of this is to be regulated by some future government regulation. It has already been said here today that we have not received the amendments until today at the meeting of the Economic Committee. This is supposed to be the comprehensive and bombastic solution to drastically rising energy prices, which become unpayable for hundreds of thousands of citizens and companies. This is the miraculous energy package that the Ministry of Industry and Trade worked on for six months. Since I am not in the habit of being vulgar, I will use an older saying that is absolutely appropriate for this government proposal: the mountain gave birth to a mouse. After the January cosmetic modification of the housing allowance parameters, when you did not reach the working people affected by the increase in electricity and gas prices, they put in line for the employment offices, where most of them did not bite through the complicated machine of applications or for this contribution, it is another severe disappointment and failure, your government failure, but I understand that you no longer want them to bite through the bureaucracy and the machine, so as a social benefit it will be done across the board so that they do not have to bite through it. Moreover, the idea of an austerity tariff is basically written, and wrong, by the idea of the SPD movement, which introduced it publicly about two months ago and subsequently submitted it in the form of a bill. [[13.00 hours]] But we do not propose any single levy, but a permanent fixed social tariff for all citizens of the Czech Republic and for all companies that do business with us, namely the production and distribution of electricity. No more increases and intermediates, no more energy odds. This bill of ours contains yet another, very important measure. The main one is the obligation of all Czech electricity producers to offer this commodity first on the Czech internal market, Czech consumers, Czech households and companies. It's a social tariff. Only possible surpluses will be placed on the commodity exchange in Leipzig, not vice versa, as is the case now, which is also the key reason for astronomical electricity prices for end consumers, because one kilowatt hour of electricity, which is produced at an interval of 25 to 50 cents - depending on whether it is a nuclear or coal power plant - is then returned to our customers at the price of nearly 10 kroner per kilowatt hour due to the sale on the lip exchange and after the charge for the distribution of the electricity tax, VAT and fire-fighting solar barons and speculators. According to current prices on the Leipzig Stock Exchange, where only the substance is traded, i.e. so-called power electricity wholesaled into stocks, the final prices next year will be even higher, over CZK 10. That's completely insane. There is no reason why electricity prices should increase in the Czech Republic. We make enough of it. It just goes through the stock market where we feed speculators and others. This is the root cause of the energy cost in the field of electricity and we will not seal it with any social one-off dose. Although, as they say, something better for people than nothing at all, that's why we raised our hand for it. But I say here, Minister, that according to the SPD it is insufficient. Remember what happened to your reduction in excise duty on fuel. Before it could be reflected in the price of diesel or gasoline, the prices were rising so that people didn't know it at all, but even with your koruna 50, the prices were already a few crowns higher. That means no one noticed it at all. But if you look in Hungary today, Poland - yes, perhaps there are queues - they are filling up for 30 crowns. For 30 kroner, Polák and Maďar, we're 50 kroner. That must raise the price of everything, because you carry all the goods. That just increases inflation. Moreover, the obligation to offer electricity production first at the commodity exchange in Leipzig does not order its Czech producers to have any European Union legislation, this is a generally experienced mistake. Motivation CEZ and other producers is exclusively the maximization of their profits and dividends. But I would like to stand up for CEZ here, unlike everyone else. CEZ is a semi-state company where 70 percent of the state owns, is controlled by the Ministry of Finance or is in the competence of the Minister of Finance. Those people in CEZ, I think, are experts, but how they will behave, if they send energy to what their concepts and strategies are, the government decides, no one but the government. If CEZ behaved differently than the government wants, the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, there will be no one there tomorrow. So, yes, we can say that CEZ is either that or poppy, but the government and the finance minister are responsible, in whose competence it is. The State must intervene as a majority shareholder of this company. Priority sales to Czech consumers at an affordable price must be enforced. But I would say that from the point of view of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, it is very simple. The enforcement will not be enforcement. Just the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister's government will say, Mr. Director General, it will be so. And I guarantee you that this will be the case, just as the Slovak Government did in Slovakia's power plants, although it holds only a minority share, about 30%. Where there's just a will, there's a way. It is important to say, however, that on this issue, on the social tariff, so that we do not violate the trade code, it is necessary to compensate minority shareholders. But even if we compensate them, we will compensate them for their profits, which they will not receive on the social tariff, it will still mean that Czech companies will survive the recession, the destruction of the economy that could unfortunately come in the future, and Czech citizens will pay several times less for energy than they currently do and, unfortunately, it will probably be in the coming months, while the Czech government is hugging over the minority shareholders of ČEZ. But I wouldn't hunch - we just have to compensate them. It's a matter of law. Even so, ČEZ will have a profit of around 100 billion this year. The government has enough money to compensate them and let go of the social tariff directly. They performed a simple but sophisticated operation in Slovakia. Because they don't want to beg their citizens, they were going to tax the absolute excess profits, especially from electricity from nuclear power plants, 50 percent. In response to this, the Slovak power plant - similar to CEZ, in which the Slovak Republic has only slightly over 30% of its ownership - within three weeks the state has agreed that the price of electricity will be reduced to 60 euros per megawatt hour, while the Lipine exchange and the Prague exchange are already close to 300 euros per megawatt hour, Minister. So Slovák 62 euros, we 300 euros. But the Czech government only sits on the bleachers in the role of spectators and only watches silently when it doesn't applaud. Well, I wouldn't say that, 'cause they're trying to get that austerity package. But I'm saying that before it gets to the practice of that 1. 9. or when, it just won't be seen anymore, because the prices are rising so astronomically that this is what you do, Minister - and the Ministry of Industry and Trade - is simply little, little. I am worried - and I will say it full-blown - that you do not yet realize what Europe is in, what situation the Czech Republic is in, and that we are playing for so much, that we are playing for unemployment, about destruction, recession, huge inflation, problems that will have many citizens of the Czech Republic as individuals who will be difficult to solve. I'd use a famous proverb. Mr. Okamura said here today - and I quote it again so it doesn't add up - that we have such a ten-year-old From the crisis to stability, especially with regard to energy. If you don't do it - or otherwise, you might be laughing about it today, thinking about it tomorrow, and after tomorrow, you'll do it. I'll only give you the first five points. Firstly, the withdrawal from the Green Deal of the European Union. The Němec have already understood, and they're saying it out loud. They say it's just not possible that they have to re-start coal and nuclear power plants. Then say it out loud, too. Secondly, the withdrawal from the emission allowances system, the trading with the economic commodity, which vacuums and increases the energy price by 30 to 50 per cent. Thirdly, the sale of Czech electricity - that is the social tariff - directly. Through the European Lips Stock Exchange, only sell the surpluses that we will have left. Fourth, the renewal of the national gas importer. To make a long-term contract for the Czech Republic and not to buy it for 30 crowns from Němec when it costs 6 crowns or 6 crowns. Restoration of the national oil processor. Do you know how many times Unipetrol has increased margins in the Czech Republic in the last month or so? About 33. They increased margins several times a day. It's just that everything worth selling in this country has just been sold. Everything worth anything sold in the past. Governments that - you don't - governments that come after you will have to buy everything back, because otherwise we'd be starving here in a few years. [[13.10 hours]] I'm gonna keep going, the next six points are already quoted by colleague Okamura here, so I think everyone has heard that. There are other points from the recently presented tenor, what I was just talking about here. Mainly in the area of gas trade, which is another brutal problem today, the restoration, re-establishing of a national gas importer, which would make the purchase of cheap gas directly from its producers. I'm not saying it has to be Russia, we also want to diversify, but get gas to ensure the operation of the Czech industry, the economy, get where you want - at decent prices! We also want to diversify resources, so let's do this, and not through German traffickers, as is the case at present, which, of course, makes the price of natural gas enormously more expensive. All surrounding countries in Central Europe are moving in this way. Here all ideologies and philosophies must stand aside and give way to national interests, which consist mainly of the interests of Czech citizens, Czech businessmen, entrepreneurs and Czech companies. Then we demand that the solar tax be abolished - this has happened, the renewables charge that each electricity user must pay for the relevant directive of the European Union and which makes the operation of so-called photovoltaic power plants a dream business where all risks and losses are borne by the state and taxpayers and all profits are collected by private entities. Of course, it is also about reducing VAT on energy, electricity and natural gas. We are the last state in Europe that hasn't done this. And let us stop collecting other special taxes - electricity tax, natural gas tax, which is once again a matter that dictates us the law - and you hear it well - order the law of the European Union. These are ways and tools to make expensive energy cheaper for citizens and businesses, and thus all of them connected with the price of other services and goods. A few more numbers and facts. The Russian natural gas energy we used last year for 9.4 billion ccs cannot be replaced by anything at all. That is, by the way, the energy that, when converted according to existing production, produces three Temelinas and three Dukovany. So much for some dreams of a rapid transition to American or totally democratic and human rights cathartic liquefied gas. This week, the press asked me if we could somehow fluently switch to electricity from the gas, if that would help. We're just not gonna make up for it, we're not gonna make up for it this year. And while the Rus have been preparing for the conflict that felt on the Russian-Ukrainian border, and they've been shooting since 2014, right after Majdan, they've been building launch systems, they've been preparing for it economically, militarily, socially, especially financially, so we've been printing money and building bike paths here. So what are you wondering if we're getting into the situation we're in today? But above all, there is no objective and rational justification for the current crazy rise in energy prices, in addition to the European Union policy and the Czech Government's policy, as Ivan Noveský, an energy expert, pointed out in one of his last talks. The price of electricity from Czech nuclear power plants has no economic reason to grow, because we are supplied for three years in advance with Russian fuel for nuclear power plants. Therefore, there is no reason for the price of electricity to rise, apart from political reasons, and in addition to helping to finance Green Deal and so-called nuclear-free policy in Germany, and for the Brussels and German inventions to make Czech consumers beg for a senselessly high price of electricity. When we look at the production price of electricity from Czech nuclear power plants, which is some 25 cents per kilowatt hour, or at end prices we are talking about profit in the order of 5,000 percent, does that seem normal and correct to you? All right, tell these people, "plátit, we agree." But we in the SPD say no, Czech electricity produced by Czech employees in Czech power plants, which are built mainly for the money of Czech citizens, must not be sold to Čech at German prices or Eurounijní, Brussels prices. That's a total disgrace and a total vanquishing trend. So, Dear Government, start doing something about it right now, and if you can't do it or you don't want to do it or you're feeding speculators or someone's got your neck, then leave. It'll be better for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u39	Mr. Vice-President Havlíček is now registered with priority rights, and Mr. Mr. Sládeček will be next. He is still applying with the priority right of President Schillerová, so the order is: Vice-President Havlíček and the President after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I listened carefully to what the Minister said. I'm gonna grab on a little bit to the cart he's got to get help with. So before we go into the discussion, I have to say, the cart hasn't left yet, and it's already squirmy, it's missing wheels, the gifts have been lost, and all we've done is paint it nicely. But I don't want to start completely negative, because I have to positively acknowledge the fact that support will be triggered through renewable resources, which means that this fee will be forgiven. Of course, I can say that it's too late again, because we've been pointing this out since December, we're saying that there shouldn't be a fee for renewables at that time, at least, a year, two more, but the good news is that both companies and households will be spared. However, the fact is that by then prices will be so high that the renewable energy charge will be very low, I mean percentually. But it's good news. It is also good news that we will support the proposal, as has already been made here, not because we think it is brilliant, but because we have nothing left to say, and at the moment it is better that the government has at least some room for manoeuvre than if it had nothing at all. And I will firmly believe - and now I am also looking at colleagues from the MIT who are sure to watch carefully what they are saying, just as they did to me to make arguments for the Minister - then please make it right, because we all know very well that as it is today, it is wrong. I have one more thing to say in defense of the Minister: the situation is really not easy. I don't envy his position, the prices go enormously up, they go enormously up in the world, and all governments fight it, unfortunately, ours may be the hardest to deal with. We also did not have a simple situation at the time of the covid, we had to cook from the water, we had to take immediate measures, but what really got into the economic committee today - and I am a little surprised by President Adamc, through Madam President, that it is so benevolent to you, if I had done to him, as I know him as a pedant, a year ago, he would have cut my ears off for it, how it was served there, how it was... [[Notes from the rapporteur.]] But you would be completely uncompromising to me. I understand you're in the coalition, so you're acting right, but I know you, and I know how it must be in you. And that, of course, is the question of all those who participated, because what was here in the last few days, when the law completely changed with the amendment or those proposals, we were slowly falling to ourselves by dozens of different proposals every day, and it was being redesigned and redesigned again, so that's really not something we should brag about. But above all, I am rising, and finally, my colleagues, who are more legally experienced, will comment. I'm going to focus on the fundamentals, and anything positive that I want to say about it is about to end here. It's late. It's definitely late. What is being presented today under the tariff was to be here sometime in March, perhaps in April. Let's see what individual countries have done. Since December we have said: renewables, since December we say: dépeha. Individual countries have made different mixes of this support, some have even begun to crop up. But what we're presenting today and it's going to apply from the end of the year de facto, so it's going to touch these people more in the next year - something this year, but it's going to be absolutely minimal - so these people won't even see it in terms of how much energy it's going to cost in the meantime. [[13.20 hours]] Those countries responded continuously. And that fundamental break did not happen to Slovakia a few months ago, which had risen to the price of CZK 1,500 per megawatt hour, but to Spain and Portugal, which had boxed through the specific support of fossil fuel producers, that it would be caught on a power train at the level of CZK 1,000 per megawatt hour. Yes, if I took the regulated file, it would be a plus or minus somewhere at the level of Slovakia. So at this point, there are already absolutely fundamental differences in the different countries of the European Union. The single European energy market is upset and now it will be just a race of individual countries, I guarantee you, which will gradually start to stop, because they will have nothing else left. At this time, we come up with this tariff. I understand the political assignment, Mr. Secretary, which you received. Five-calice decided that only a limited source would do it, so it's boiled out of the water. But on the other hand, you're supposed to hit the table and show how it's done elsewhere and not go down this hyper-complicated path. What's the worst part, though, is that it's really not going to be enough, I can't say it any other way. Because when I look at how the price developed, two years ago, it was approximately plus or minus CZK 1,000 per megawatt hour. Today, ČEZ and Prague energy offer electricity for CZK 7,500 per megawatt hour. But we all know how today's price moves on the daily market, we watch it every day. And we'll take it from there, and we can deduce that at the end of the year it's going to be moving somewhere plus minus about CZK 9,000 per megawatt hour. Finally, today, when it's fixated, some of these big players are offering it to some customers at this price. In other words, nine times as many. And now let's think that Slovakia has a ceiling of CZK 1,500 per megawatt hour. How do we explain to people that they pay five times as much at this point? And they're going to pay maybe six, maybe seven times as much. That's reality. How do we explain to companies that they will buy electricity for CZK 8,000, 9,000 per megawatt hour if their Spanish competitor buys it plus or minus CZK 1,500? There's no explaining it, the firm won't understand. No company will understand. And yet we know what the company will do. She starts firing, gets uncompetitive, becomes a huge problem. That's why, in my opinion, this is going to be a big blunder. These people do not appreciate the fact that a measure has been taken at the moment and that it will actually cost the state, and I do not question that, perhaps the 27 billion crowns. What are these people gonna say? I pay seven times as much. And you're going to say to them, "Well, if we hadn't intervened, Mr. Novák, Mrs. Nováková, then we would have paid eight times as much. Well, maybe you're right, but I guarantee you they'll be pissed the same way. And rightly so. And they're gonna be pissed because they're gonna look at Slovakia. So if I think about Spain and Portugal, it's a long way away, then we won't explain to them that it's at this price in Slovakia. That's reality. Next, the tariff is really complicated. Not ready, but he's complicated by himself. I'm not saying it's completely complicated for the customers - not there really, because they pay less, that's true, that's pretty good news for them - but the whole mechanism is that it's going to be different for the companies. They're not gonna touch them at all, they're gonna go to the oasis, but they're so low in the meantime, they won't even notice. Self-employed people, watch out, that's a million subjects, they don't have any of that. Family houses, yes, that's probably the most understandable and imaginable. That means he's really gonna compensate for the gas and the electricity, or he's gonna get a lower, lower flat rate, so I'd say that's okay. Well, the blocks, that's a story for yourself. That's where we have two options today. The first option that we will pray for this to be specified within the European Commission. But what are we saying? So the European Commission will allow us to do so, giving money to heat plants. But I wouldn't be so sure here that fags aren't gonna pick up the money. I've just been meeting a whole bunch of energy guys and the heat guys, and they're not saying they wouldn't raise the prices. They'll probably pick them up a little less than if they were picked up in normal situations, but we don't know how much. Well, that's one thing. But I am on the ground because I know how the European Commission works. It's not the Minister's fault, they don't work much during the holidays at this time, so I can imagine it won't be notified after all. And that's when the variant comes in completely crazy, which means the option is that money is sent to the hot tubs. The warmers first find out how many esvéječek there are, how many apartments there are, and then redistribute them to the esvéječek. And here begins a pretty interesting process, because I'm curious about how the essays are going to split up here. I made a few calls, they're all confused. Okay, you're gonna say there's gonna be some regulation, maybe it'll fix it. But in any case, somebody's already telling me today, we're gonna split it by the number of apartments. Divide, period, done. Some say, "No, we go by how much they pay for heating." And someone says, "I might go by square meters." To make matters worse, let's imagine we have a hundred guys there and we still have two, three, four, five - I don't know - businessmen, some hairdresser, and so on who won't be able to get it. I'm not saying it's not possible, but I've experienced covido support, and I know what it is when hundreds of thousands or millions of customers have to serve. So what makes it more complicated, even though it seems pretty handy in those offices, then it comes down to total banality. And all of a sudden, you see how everyone does it differently. I guarantee you when the tenants start calling you and saying to you: How come they work like this, how come they work like this, he gets it on square meters, he gets it on, he gets it on? And it's gonna be a huge mess. Not to mention the fact that even the amenities and ability and, let's say, the operation of the individual esphysiques, those who are in charge, are different. Let's just take as many as we have. It's not a couple of houses, a few objects. So that's another problem. And now let's just think that it's still going to be different, and these people have to understand somehow. The fact that it will be in electricity: either it is lit or it is lit and boiled or it is lit, it cooks and drowns. And it will be on the gas: either it cooks, cooks, and heats, or cooks, heats, and drowns. Well, then we have to make it easy for everyone to explain. I know the paper can handle everything, and you probably didn't mean it all wrong when you put it together, but that's when experts read it a few times, so they have a problem to understand. And now let's think that we're supposed to explain this to millions of people who are nervous, who know that they're going to have a hard winter, who know that they're going to pay extreme amounts. And now this is all over them. They're not absorbing it. Unfortunately, I have to say, that's how it's gonna go down. What bothers me is motivation. We call it an austerity tariff. I'm guessing that's what the Chamber of Commerce gave you. I'm not quite sure, but I kind of liked it when I read it, because the motivation would be that anyone who saves could have higher support or vice versa. No, now it's gonna be that de facto everyone gets over the flat, whether they try or not, which I don't think is good. I'm gonna leave the austerity tariff now, because I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of discussion about this, and I'm sure the Minister will say something about it. However, I still have to comment on the security. It's not for the minister here, but I appreciate the fact that he went into business and presented it as a tariff. But Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka here raised a battalion to which we simply have to respond. What did we do for security? Then I ask you another question. What, Minister absent, have you done for security in the last twenty, twenty-five years? When the refineries were privatized, was that an act of security? Just so we understand each other, Minister Jurečka. Security is about the price. Security is that it's about energy availability. And security is that there are diversified sources. These are three basic parameters of safety. So when we privatized the refinery 100%, it went away, it's owned by PKN Orlen today, and we're looking at them making a tenfold larger refinery margin, so you think that's an act of security? We really weren't behind that, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. That was in 1997 until 2002, I suspect. [[A round of applause from the ANO and SPD benches.]] And who was there when gas was privatized? The transfer system has been privatized completely, the distribution has been privatized completely and the trade has been privatised completely. Was that an act of security? 2002! You can't credit us for that either. At that time, YES didn't even exist. It's all gone. The gas company has such a possible screw that we'll ever send there. Nothing else. We don't make decisions about anything, anything at all. RWE received more than 100 billion crowns at that time. I'm not questioning the amount, I'm just asking, was that an act of security when we don't make any decisions? Speaking of which, while privatizing CEZ: I don't know who invented the stupid privatization of CEZ in the 1990s, when there was finally a third or, respectively, 30% of private co-owners and 70 percent of the state. The state doesn't have anything in its hand. He can't do anything at this point. All she can do is watch her make up her mind. And here the government is right. He really can't, even though it seems weird to us, order Čez to sell for you or for the money. This is not really possible because there are 30% of minority shareholders who do not have money parked there to support Czech energy, but to make money. That's reality. And we can talk about what we can do to make sure it doesn't. Well, there's only one option that's gonna buy that share back -- cheaply sold, expensively redeemed. And if we're going to do it as a whole, or we're going to divide it into two parts, and we're going to keep production, that's another thing. But at the moment, it was an act of security? We weren't behind that, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. [[13.30 hours]] And I didn't notice that even though you were in the government, you would object somehow to Nord Stream 1 building here. I'm not surprised you didn't protest because it was quite a pragmatic, normal move at the time. Another source of gas was simply being built and built for the whole of Central and Eastern Europe with regard to the price and the infrastructure already built up and the infrastructure supplemented. Let us see how pipelines run throughout Central and Eastern Europe. But I don't recall you protesting that back then, banging on the table and saying, let's not do this Nord Stream 1! And did you do anything, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, against Nord Stream 2 when it was being built? No. Nobody did anything at all, got completely overdone, also Russian gas. And that you didn't protest when Nabucco turned down as a Nerusian gas? Nobody even noticed. And that you didn't say anything when TurkStream was building, I hope I carried it all back correctly in my head - but it wasn't even called ashes. Europe simply focused on Russian gas because of price, because of simplicity and because it created a green vision here, which will not build gas with us or benefit, but will be driven here. And I didn't notice you fighting for liquefied gas two years ago, three years ago. So you should have come at the time of the covid, which you blame us for, and you should have told people: Dear and kind, we stop taking gas from Russia, we're going to take liquefied gas from Qatar and the United States. There's only one downside, there's no terminals built here, and b) it's too expensive, but nothing's happening, we're gonna do it this way and we're gonna work it out. But there is one more important thing, Mr Vice Prime Minister: you must convince those countries that are involved, which is Poland or Germany, which have the possibility to build these terminals, so they are by the sea to start doing it. And you know why they didn't start doing that? Because it didn't pay them off because the natural gas was significantly cheaper than the liquefied gas. And if you want more, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, we can talk about the Dukovany for a very, very long time. That you didn't oppose the fact that between 2010 and 2013, Temelín and Rosatoma were building up in the finals? Not that he wasn't allowed into the tender, he was released, and he ended up second. And I think that at the time, quite a pragmatic decision, just pushed the price down thanks to Rosatom, won Westinghouse that time, and it was done. I didn't see you protesting it back then. Neither did you at the time when the core committee decided who was going to let everything into the tender. Do you remember who was there that night? I don't think about the committee, but who did we decide about? South Korea, United States, France and Russia. And do you know who voted in favour? Your MP. And I appreciate it, he voted in accordance with his best knowledge and conscience because he wanted to get the price down, and that was Mr Bělobrádek. Then you called him off and you said you wouldn't, that you would put someone there who would vote differently. I'll take it, it's some kind of discussion, of course, there was a huge fight about it here in the House. Everyone knows very well that Russia would have ruled it out anyway and that the security forces were clearly saying this, but we were all interested in creating pressure on the price, and I think it was rational back then. And we can go one by one, as anyone said back then, even on the Permanent Core Committee, but that's not relevant at this point. Today we're talking about the tariff, which I recommend, let's have some fun. And if you want security, I don't have the slightest problem. I don't have the slightest problem bringing up one by one and showing you how one of your people lobbied for who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u41	Now, before I give the floor to the factual matter with which Mr Juchelka is registered, I will read one apology, namely the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa from today's meeting between 13.15 and 14.15 for work reasons. And now, in fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President, dear colleagues. It has already been said here from the rapporteur's mouth, from the Minister, and from my previous speakers that we are de facto doing so within the time limits, right here in this law, and there was a little comparison with the covid. I was a member of the Social Policy Committee here in the last parliamentary term, and I know it was really on edge, too, but it was a different time, I mean. First of all, we've been waiting here since March for some energy package that unfortunately came today. And, of course, I have a few questions, because I myself didn't have a chance to read it, read it, or get to know it superficially. Only what falls on the microphone here from the mouth of the rapporteur, who doesn't have to put ashes on his head at all, that it came today, because it's not his responsibility, it's the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I have absolutely no opportunity to read the amendments, because we are here at this point in the middle of a debate. And I really can only trust what will happen here, how colleagues will vote, and yet here, in this gallows term, it is simply and simply 66 billion at the maximum. The point is that the Ministry of Industry and Trade here wants my vote, and I firmly believe that - because we have a meeting tonight by 4:00 p.m., we only have two and a half hours to discuss this here I would say to the law of the year, and I don't know at all, I'm confused and I don't know what to do with it, because I have a lot of questions for Minister Síkela. I firmly believe that he will be involved in this debate from now on, because he should start answering that whole series of questions. And I don't understand some things, of course. I do not understand how it is possible that something is being tabled here that has five amendments in half an hour. I don't understand what he said in here, and that's my first question if he can even guarantee it. Quote: I hope that the citizens will still receive help...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u43	Ambassador, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u44	Five seconds - before the end of the heating season. The heating season ends on 31 May next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u45	I beg you to keep your time. President Schillerová is now reporting with priority rights. And I just want to ask you about 16 o'clock - that's a preliminary agreement, but we can move on. Well, just so it's heard, it's clear to everyone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Czech Statistical Office published new figures on consumer price developments: 17.2. This is an increase in consumer prices for June 2022. Prices of food, fuel, transport, food and accommodation services rose and electricity and natural gas prices also increased. Czech households are falling into major existential problems. In a record way, real wages fall, the savings that households have created are losing value, and household sentiment falls to the second lowest level while monitoring consumer confidence indicators. The record number of households, the highest since the start of surveillance, is concerned about the deterioration of their financial situation. Near its historical peak is also the number of consumers who evaluate their financial situation worse than in the previous year. There has also been an increase in the number of households fearing an increase in unemployment. And in this catastrophic situation, the current five-calice government adopts laws that we have already proposed months backwards, which have long been in operation in the surrounding countries and which will no longer be of great help to anyone in today's situation. The surrounding countries, and here, let me, yes, I will speak about Hungary, just yesterday they joined a state of energy emergency, which includes important measures such as a ban on energy sources export. However, today we are discussing a proposal that has become basically a myth. We've been hearing about him for a long time, but no one actually knows what he's gonna look like in practice. However, as a pragmatist, I must at least be glad that we have moved further away from "less topte" advice. But now please, absolutely seriously, because this subject is extremely serious and very, very painful for many households. In today's situation, a significant proportion of citizens have been faced with serious financial problems as a result of high prices not only of electricity and gas, and in addition, the explanatory report itself stresses that this situation is not possible, sufficient or appropriate to address other types of State aid such as the housing contribution. Hail! That's what we've been saying from the start. Finally, and I'm glad, thank you for giving us the truth in this, too. [[13.40 hours]] The Minister says, and I do not want to put him down here in any way, that he has been dealing with the solution to the energy crisis since the beginning of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and therefore deals with an energy crisis that significantly threatens the competitiveness of the Czech industry and most Czech households. But Czech households and Czech industry have not yet seen any results, so they do not see any real result of this work and this effort. Electricity prices have been rising since last autumn, and prices on the stock market have risen from 75 euros per megawatt hour to 332 euros today. This crisis should be addressed by the so-called energy tariff, which the Minister has been talking about since March, but since then electricity has been rising and raising and raising. It is therefore clear at this point that the maximum amount of the contribution proposed by the government for 30,000 is insufficient. It should be higher, perhaps CZK 40,000, to take account of the period before the current five-calice simply reached this goal. Just yesterday, one of E.ON's main suppliers announced that electricity would go up by about 15 percent. For gas, prices will rise by even 50 percent, starting in September 2022. Other distributors will certainly increase their prices as well. Prague energy is increasing from 1 August from the original CZK 4 879 per megawatt hour to CZK 7 505 per megawatt hour, which is about 50 per cent. Centropol increased the price for fixed product from CZK 5,205 to CZK 6,381 per megawatt hour as of 1 July. However, the price increase also applies to our semi-state enterprise. The CEZ Group has increased prices in the most common tariff since 1 July and has again announced the price increase since 1 August. I would like to point out that now it costs one megawatt hour of CZK 6 025, from August it will cost CZK 7,464, which is an increase of more than a fifth, which is already obvious. I could go on like this. Unfortunately, sometimes it seems to me that the only one who doesn't care about this astronomical expensive is our government. And how are things with our neighbors? Is there really nothing the government can do about energy prices? Let's take a look. As I mentioned, in the Czech Republic, the price for one megawatt hour is CZK 7,500. In Slovakia, one megawatt hour comes to CZK 1,500. So we're going to pay five times as much as our neighbors in Slovakia? How are our domestic companies to be competitive when their basic inputs are much higher? In Spain or Portugal, the price of electricity was even up to CZK 100 per megawatt hour. In a quarterly report on the electricity and gas market, the European Commission admits that natural gas prices for industrial enterprises are tens of percent higher in the EU than in China, South Korea and the United States. In the case of electricity, the price ratio is up to twice that. Needless to say, what this means for the competitiveness of European industry. Czech households pay more for electricity and natural gas than the average of Europe's countries. According to an analysis by the Finnish consulting company, electricity prices in Prague are the sixth highest of the 32 evaluated European capitals. As far as natural gas is concerned, Prague is also among the ten most expensive metropolises. They agreed to reduce consumer or environmental taxes on electricity in Germany, Italy, Spain and other countries, which slightly reduced price growth. The Netherlands introduced a tax at a negative rate and thus subsidizes electricity. On the contrary, the Čech are still waiting for the aid of the state, and even this law does not provide any concrete assistance for me, and citizens and the media should know that. Today, we do not approve of any concrete aid, as the government claims, as the Prime Minister even claimed in his speech to the nation. We only approve of some assumption of assistance here. The minister himself spoke of a legislative assumption. It only means that, perhaps, the government will even decide and get some help. One day, everything will be governed by government regulations and we don't know anything about them yet. It's also possible that it's going to happen all sorts of ways. It is imperative that the five-wheelers start communicating with the citizens. Citizens need to know what to prepare for. Or are they supposed to start gathering wood in the woods for the winter, or is this government really not going to let them fall, as it promises them? We need to communicate with citizens and explain how the government will help them. You have to tell people what might happen. We have to tell people the truth in the face, and that's that if the government doesn't really start doing something, it gets the families and the companies into real trouble. If you don't know what to do, our designs are already on the table. And again, we're handing out a helping hand, repeatedly. Even today, we are ready to support this proposal. We supported the legislative emergency negotiations, which does not mean that we will not criticise it. And we also have to say that these extremely high energy prices today are probably not final. And just a little bit of spicy in the explanatory report submitted by the law in the second point, I quote: the reasoning behind the main principles of the proposed regulation states that if the household is drowning electricity, its price will rise by 145 % compared to 2021. If the household drowns with gas, its price will rise by 190 per cent in 2023 compared to 2021. This is undoubtedly important information that relatively accurately describes alternative developments in 2023. Unfortunately, it is sad that the Government's bill uses the list of reports page 78 as the main source in this information - unfortunately, this speaks of much. milý vláda, the script is still the same. You ignore our proposals, you return to them after a while, as you do with renewables. In the case of an energy tariff, you're going on a thin ice because it's basically an experiment of yours. But people need help fast, and I'm worried this isn't the right way to go. I'd love to be wrong, and I'd love to see that she's traveled to people with enough help. Rather, it frightens me that you are wrong, and that can be a mistake for many fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u47	Mr Kobza is now registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I know it's more of a question of interpelation, but since the interpelations haven't been in a long time, I'll at least use this to repeat my question to Minister Síkela, if he would kindly explain to us the price at which he bought gas for the bins when the purchase price to Germany was 6 kccc. And if the news in the media was correct, it was purchased for 37 cc's. If he would be so kind as to explain it to us - perhaps I have bad information - and set it right. I'd like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. It is now registered with the factual remark of Mr Juchelka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u50	Thank you very much. I didn't have time to finish this, so I have some more questions here, and I hope to know before the final word is as it is in this government so that we can discuss it. Minister, is there, please, a crisis plan within the Ministry of Industry and Trade when gas taps really stop in a few days? And what does the crisis plan look like? This means which businesses will be stopped at first and what time it looks like, because of course it is constantly being done, maybe it will continue to be done? I'm interested in the balance sheet, how much of this is going to flow through and come from the Dutch LNG terminal that was negotiated in Qatar, how it's going to get here, how it's going to be with the NET4GAS pipes, and how we're going to withstand de facto this gas for entrepreneurs, for industry as such? We know that, for example, 9 percent of the heavy industry is dependent on gas, but 51 percent are already in middle business, so I'm interested in which fields start to shut down first. And, of course, plan B and C have something to do with that. For example, when it shuts down, let's say that in a few days it will flow again, for example in the middle of the heating season, at the end of January, at the end of February, at the end of November. Does the MIT have a contingency plan if Putin plays with us and turns it on for two days, shuts it down for three days? I am of course interested in this whole thing here, and I firmly believe that we can discuss this because it is part of, of course, some whole energy future, the long-term one, that is, by the end of May, by the end of the heating season, so that we can discuss it. That's all for now, I'm sure I can think of something else, and I'm going to be here to make the most of the factual remarks, so I don't hold back those who are enrolled in a proper debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u51	Thank you for keeping time. We are now coming to those who are enrolled in the debate. First it is Mr Sládeček, and then Mrs Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to the Energy Act. This amendment is supposed to be a response to the enormous rise in energy prices, which the government is finally starting to address across the board, at least for households. The explanatory memorandum mentions the projected increase in electricity prices in 2023 by 145 per cent compared to 2021 and gas prices in 2023 by 190 per cent compared to 2021, which I think is a very optimistic scenario. High energy prices cannot pay not only low-income households, but also middle class, businessmen and a large proportion of entrepreneurs. At the same time, we are one of the few countries that is self-sufficient. Yet you are unable, in an emergency situation where electricity prices rise by hundreds of percent, when the security of the state is threatened and there is significant economic damage, to put a stop to the prices of electricity produced by us. Please do not lie to the Czech citizens that electricity prices cannot be ceilinged in the Czech Republic, when Slovakia, which has electricity five times cheaper than the Czech Republic, has already done so, for example, in France, Portugal, Romania and Spain. The largest electricity producer in Slovakia is controlled by Mr Křetinské's company and the Slovak state has only 34 percent of the shares in this company, unlike ČEZ, where the Czech state has more than double the shares, exactly 69.78 %. Instead of the government's already undermining the price of electricity, it is now establishing a mechanism that will enable the State to reduce the final price of electricity and natural gas to customers by contributing to a state which has the character of a subsidy. However, the maximum amount of the allowance per sampling point may not exceed 20,000 at this time. Czech households now receive energy bills and it is no exception that a four-member household using electricity for everything has an underpayment of 80 000. You will now contribute 20,000, maybe 30,000 crowns, but where should a family with average income or pensioners save the rest? Your proposed subsidy is not sufficient. CEZ currently has the highest profits in history at the expense of Czech households and Czech companies, which will soon become uncompetitive. The government's maneuvering space is huge. You should immediately reduce VAT and excise duties on gas, electricity and oil. Now these taxes are paying much more to the state than before, much more than Minister Stanjura planned, precisely because of the enormous increase in energy prices. You should also reduce the distribution fee, step out of the emission allowances system to support Czech entrepreneurs and Czech companies. Instead of supporting all Czech companies, you will support one of the richest Czech companies, ČEZ, with a loan of EUR 3 billion, i.e. approximately CZK 75 billion, with only 3% interest, while interest rates for loans for entrepreneurs and companies are currently around 8 percent. Suddenly you do not invoke market conditions or the single European electricity market and competition rules. In the amendment to the Energy Act, I have never read how you will help Czech entrepreneurs and Czech companies. Even though this amendment is late and brings insufficient solutions to the critical situation for our citizens, the SPD will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová is now registered and followed by Mr Stržínek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers - I will use the plural, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak long, I will just say what happened on the Economic Committee. The first thing that stopped me. During the economic committee, I learned that the economic committee, which is regularly streamed, is not streamed. It is true, it is often regularly - I say it ugly, my mother looks regularly - but even the professional public is used to the fact that this committee is being streamed, and I probably will not conceive, I will not do any speculation, but just as important things could be streamed, when other less important things are being streamed. Before I begin, I want to say that on one of the previous committees we adopted - I did not, I did not vote for it - a memorandum on the cooperation of the Economic Committee with the Ministry of Industry. Although it concerns the issue of energy security and self-sufficiency, which, of course, is not helping people, I suppose, even within this memorandum, cooperation could have been achieved. I would like to read from the record what I said at the time: "Zuzana Ožanová takes the view that cooperation does not require a memorandum if cooperation is required. They see no reason to approve the memorandum.' Even his own colleague, through you, Madam President, colleague Kubíček, said that he did not agree with me, that everything was okay, and Minister Síkela announced that he took it as an undertaking on his part, which is confirmed by his own signature, and sees it beyond normal commitment. So much for the memorandum. Why am I talking about this? I understand that the situation is difficult, but I consider it unheard of to receive amendments after the opening of the Economic Committee to the extent that we have received them. I thank the Chairman of the Economic Committee for having handled the situation, for commenting on this as well as in his intelligence report, and for taking this very seriously. However, from my point of view, I was given the opportunity to read these amendments, but I believe that this was completely inappropriate after all. [[14.00 hours]] I will recommend that the Memorandum on the next committee be repealed because it is unnecessary, there is no cooperation. It would be good to cooperate more. My colleagues here said we'd agree to this here. Yes, I agree with that, but please, if you're not talking to us anymore, give us the chance to at least read what we're voting on. I thank the Chairman of the Economic Committee for giving me that opportunity. I had 20 minutes. I really read, I didn't have time to read everything, but just so we didn't take our citizens hostage, I raised my hand for the Economic Committee and raise my hand for even here. But I am one of those Members who keeps repeating on the microphone that I'm reading these things, and allow me to continue reading them. However, I will reiterate my thanks once again to the chairman of the Economic Committee, who, within the time limits we had, tried to heal and correct this, and I thank him with this. But otherwise, I don't thank the Ministry for this kind of work. I understand they were preparing it at the last minute, but if I heard, other coalition colleagues had this at least tonight. At least that night I could read it. If the economic committee were streamed, I asked my assistant on vacation to look at it so that we could prepare for plenary. Well, I couldn't because I learned it wasn't streamed. In fact, I was prevented from properly preparing myself for the committee's meeting, and I was also deprived of the opportunity to consult these matters with experts. Please, we have an expert. Some of us are actually using it to ask for opinion, not political matadors, but people in the field, to ask how you look at it. Please give it to me next time, otherwise, of course, I will support this proposal, including the amendment of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u55	Have a good afternoon. We'll continue with the facts. Mrs Peštová will be the first to make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. I will, of course, respond to Mrs Ožanová. Yesterday we took such a beautiful excursion, how laws should be created, how they should go into an inter-departmental commentary procedure - I will not repeat it, I think we all remember it - and I was very struck by one thing, Minister. This law has been in interdepartmental commemorative proceedings for three days. A material like this, a shot like this for three days in an interdepartmental commentary when you're here explaining how intensely you're sewing and embroidering and how we're all gonna stare. Three days! As far as comment points are concerned, I am very surprised, and I am very sorry that you have left out the Chamber of Commerce, you have not taken their comments, you have neglected the Association of Industry, you have not taken their comments, and you have not taken any of this into account. These are two institutions or, respectively, two comment points that are key to you. I wouldn't dare not discuss it with them and go to the Chamber of Deputies with it. And what my previous speaker, Mrs Ožanová, actually said here was that you put them on the table - I was on the committee, you saw me there, I stood up for one amendment, but I would still like to ask because, of course, I realized that it would be double support for that amendment, but how do you really have it resolved towards the customers or the last customer? I supported you in that the way it's read, or what they actually wanted to enforce would be double support. But I want to know how it's treated so that the customer really gets what he's supposed to get, that means the 30,000 you're proposing. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping time. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, colleagues, I will just respond to the streaming. I must say that it is not entirely a rule to stream the conduct of an economic committee that is otherwise public. I mean, this was mainly in the time of the covido, when those people couldn't come in, and I certainly don't want anyone to feel like the streaming wasn't because of what we were discussing today. It's definitely not like that. If the request for streaming could certainly be arranged, but really, every meeting of the Economic Committee is not streamed automatically and it is not customary for other committees, as far as I know. But I'm saying, if you're interested in streaming it, you're saying Mommy's watching it, I'm happy to let you do it. I'm gonna remember that now, and next time, of course, we're gonna stream the economic committee, I'm gonna make it a rule, and I think, eventually, we're all gonna be happy. But I'm saying it wasn't an intention here, it was just a normal, classic meeting of the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention, and I don't want to delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Another with a point of fact, Mrs Ožanová, again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for your answer. Well, however, if... I believe, then, that we will look into the Economic Committee, I assume that all the meetings of the Economic Committee this year have been streamed except for this. But I have to look it up, please, and that is why I expressed these doubts about why this was so, because it was really streamed all along. But really, I'm not gonna tell you this, but if I needed anything from that committee to discuss it with someone, he found it, he looked at the stream, so it would be good to find out, but now I'm in favour of going back to the debate about the subject itself. But I would like to say that these streams are not only followed by our family members, but experts in the field who cannot attend these meetings are from all over the Czech Republic and let's face it, from some parts of our beautiful country it takes them several hours to get to Prague. Moreover, the meeting room of the Economic Committee is so small that everyone who is interested wouldn't really fit in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u61	Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. The Committee on Budgets is sitting here in the hall, so it is also an opportunity to expand capacity for the Economic Committee. [[Mrs Peštová: I was there...]] Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u62	I'm sorry. [[He's turning to the President.]] I'm sorry, but I'm running out of time anyway. Thank you. I would really, Minister, like to hear the answer. I didn't just say it in the wind here, and I understand that you're going to react at the end, but most of the time, when the reactions of the individual we're calling on here, we can't defend ourselves and we can't react. So I really want to know, and I want to hear from you guys here that the final customer is really gonna get the money. I'm saying I supported you on the committee, I saw that it was double support, that you would definitely not pass the notification and you would have a problem with that, but now I would really like some assurance from you that the money would go to the final customer. That's one thing. And I would also like to add, of course, the way my previous speaker said, Mrs Ožanová, that you did not see the amendments. Well, you'd see them, 'cause they changed about four times that night. So he wouldn't be able to get to you any of the current ones anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u63	A real point and we will continue the general debate. Mr Stržínek is in the order of the general debate, whom I will ask for a speech, and Mr Hrnčíř will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Member of the Government, fellow Members, the proposed amendment to the Energy Act is, unfortunately, trying to address only a fraction of the problems that are present in the current energy market, in addition, in a way that presents a four-variate solution that the government will decide in the future. So even after this law is passed, it won't be quite clear how many households actually save. It is only smiling if it would not rather be to cry that the option with the highest budget demands counts with a discount of 20 per cent of the total price. [[14.10 hours]] After a few months of secrecy and trekking, you discovered America, and you come up with a proposal that we de facto advocate from the very beginning of the energy crisis, and that is VAT forgiveness for energy of 21 percent. The resulting effect is almost the same. The proposed amendment does not address the price of heat and hot water for households that are connected to the central heating system. I know about the amendment, but the rest of us didn't have it at our disposal. We are talking about thousands of households in housing estates, thousands of city apartments, where there are often seniors and socially weaker families. How these people will be compensated for heating and hot water costs, which is often the highest item associated with housing, we will simply not know from the document presented. As mayor of the twenty thousandth city of Wallachian Meziříčí you, Minister, I ask: Does the government at least count on any help to cities and municipalities, to those who pay energy in schools, kindergartens and sports grounds? Aren't you interested in the fact that sport in our republic is going to hell because of your politics? Let me briefly quote the media. The recent general meeting of the Czech Union of Sport resulted in great criticism of the state and government for poor support for sport. According to the president of the Union, Miroslav Jansta, many not only hockey clubs are considering the end. Due to the rise in energy prices and other things, some stadiums are closing, melting the ice, and not restoring them. Dear government, do you know what is happening in our country? How do you intend to address this situation? In the amendment to the Energy Act you're presenting to us, I personally didn't know. Do you really know how energy prices change for cities that often trade gas and electricity on commodity exchanges with regard to the Public Procurement Act? Just to give you an idea of a few specific numbers. For 2021 and 2022, in Valašské Meziříčí we fixed the price of gas on beautiful 447 crowns per megawatt hour and the price of electricity at 1, 297 crowns per megawatt hour. Beautiful, which we will only remember sadly and nostalgically. This week on Monday, 11. 7. the Czech Moravian commodity exchange Kladno finally started trading and for 2023 gas was traded for the price of CZK 4 720 per megawatt hour and electricity at low voltage at CZK 10,526 per megawatt hour. It's a massacre! This is a real brutal reality! It is ten times the original price, which we have by the end of this year as well as hundreds of other cities and municipalities. We have it fixed by the end of December. Since the New Year, because now we're going to compete, we can count on no double, no triple, but we're really going to have a ten-fold increase in energy, a force part of energy compared to the previous two years that we had fixed by the 2020 tender. For us, for our city, it's worth CZK 50 million. This is freezing half the investment package we have available annually. So I ask again, how will you help cities and municipalities with energy in schools, kindergartens and sports grounds? Should we close them? I'll answer it myself. You will help us as you have done so far, not at all. It's just gonna be up to us again. You know, at one mayor's training, he told the lecturer, and he was, by the way, a respected person in the management and administration of municipalities, that the government would often do the best if it did nothing at all, because it often takes decisions that make life very difficult for cities and municipalities. I had no idea that this government would follow this recommendation almost 100%. I would like to mention some of the steps taken by the surrounding governments, which have already been mentioned by my colleagues. Germany has declared the second of three warning stages corresponding to the state of the threat due to uncertainty about gas supply. Hungary has declared a state of energy emergency. It prohibited the export of resources, abolished the price ceiling, increased domestic production of coal and prohibited, inter alia, the export of firewood. Don't worry about it. It almost looks like nothing's going on. Well then, dear government, good luck, have a nice holiday and a nice holiday! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u65	Next will be Mr Hrnčíř, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, how do we evaluate this proposal? Probably in the best words of former Russian Prime Minister Viktor Černomyrdin, who said: We wanted to do it as best as possible and it turned out as always. After all, you've been working for six months on something that's basically a law of authority that empowers the government to prepare some kind of government order for concrete help, and at this point, no one really knows what that particular aid will look like. This morning, five parliamentary amendments had to be adopted quickly on the Economic Committee, which went beyond the length of the proposal itself, so that there would be something to discuss and that this would be applicable at all. You've been sewing on it for six months! While you're dealing with some kind of indefinite home aid, there's nothing there about businessmen, companies and other organizations. I feel like it's sabotage, your designs! We don't need this Putin guy here. We're good with our government. Those are the most reliable agents. Now let me think a little bit more closely about this proposal. According to the Minister of Industry and Trade This proposal Síkely intended to help citizens combat expensive energy. I think it's a total pasquil that doesn't really help anyone, and it's gonna burden the state budget disproportionately. I have to admit, I'm tired of government behavior. This government, while the governments of other countries have long been acting, first pretends for a long time that there is no real problem. After some time, when he recognizes that there is a problem after all, he pretends that it concerns only a small group of residents. Later, when the situation of citizens is really becoming desperate, it promises some solutions, but it loses another month of ravishing over the possibilities, from which it eventually selects the least suitable one. As I said a while ago, our government is helping too late and too bad. There are really viable solutions, and the SPD is still proposing them over and over again. In particular, the rate of VAT on energy is very high in our country compared to the other countries of the European Union, it is 21 percent. For example, luxury goods or services are taxed. The SPD has been talking about the need to reduce VAT to energy for a long time, but the government is pretending to be deaf and blind, because, at today's crazy energy prices, it will, of course, collect much more on taxes than before, which it likes. So he'd rather beg his citizens and then throw a really ridiculous one-time contribution to the dog that doesn't solve anything. Thus, while the reduction of VAT on energy would be real aid at this time, a one-off contribution of probably somewhere between CZK 12 and CZK 16,000, no one knows exactly, at a time when the increase will be a few tens or more than a hundred thousand crowns a year, is rather a mockery to citizens. I have talked about the need to forgive the charges for renewable resources to citizens and companies since the beginning of this energy crisis, i.e. since last year. I welcome the fact that the government has finally awakened and intends to introduce this forgiveness, but I am not at all satisfied that it will not be until October of this year. It's too late! Since January, experts have been alerting and calling for effective solutions to combat a huge rise in energy prices. The government will recover in July, and it wants to introduce aid from October? I'm already really disgusted and appalled! [[14.20 hours]] And that's what the government keeps saying that it's actually a private commercial company in which it can't exercise its influence. Well, that's the kind of conditions anyone would want. I could borrow a billion at 3%. I'll put it on a five-percent deposit, send 30 million to the state, and keep 20 million, I don't have to get off the couch. It's a farm. Considering that CEZ will produce one kilowatt hour of electricity in nuclear power plants for some 45 cents and in coal power plants even less, I will then sell this electricity on a foreign exchange, where it will buy back at a higher price and the end consumer will pay roughly over 10 crowns for one kilowatt hour, it should rather try to leave this system as quickly as possible, not to support and to sprinkle billions. To support such a crazy loan, which I am also personally convinced that Minister of Finance Stanjura has clearly exceeded his powers. The correct procedure is to ensure direct sale of electricity to the State and to companies through bilateral contracts and to supply only on the Leipzig Stock Exchange and only surpluses of electricity which the Czech Republic will not use. I'm not surprised that the government has chosen the opposite position again. All the more so, when Prime Minister Fiala realized that leaving the Leipzig Stock Exchange would probably harm the Němec. The Prime Minister obviously doesn't even accept that he should take first care of the citizens of his country. Simply put, the State lent ČEZ almost 75 billion of taxpayers' money to keep ČEZ on the Leipzig Stock Exchange, where it would dearly buy out the electricity it had previously produced and could continue to sell it with a crazy mark-up to these very taxpayers. For this, the government, headed by the Minister of Finance Stanjura, should be held accountable, and I say this quite frankly. Of course, all that I have mentioned here will lead to and will lead to personal bankruptcy, executions and insolvencys, which to a large extent affect the middle class, in addition to poorer citizens. And I must say that I was directly raised by the solution of the government, which, again, rather than real aid to citizens, rather regulates the rules for insolvency. This is shameful and shameful. The government either doesn't know how to help citizens or doesn't want to. In both cases, she should apologize immediately to the citizens and resign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u67	Vice-President Skopeček has applied with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to my previous speaker. He said in his performance that we don't need Putin, that our government is the best agent. So I'm gonna ask him to say what kind of agent, who on the microphone. I respect your right to criticize the submitted material, to be critical of the government, but everything has its limits. I'm really asking what kind of agent this government is, and please respond to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. In fact, the Member wants to respond, yes. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna keep it short. If you listened well, I meant that we don't need Putin here to harm us. You blame everything on the war in Ukraine that Putin unleashed, and that's all the impact on the citizens that are here. I say we don't need this Putin guy, that our government will be fine on its own with how it harms our citizens, how it doesn't solve things, or how it solves them late, inadequately. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Skopeček still wants to respond with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u72	My colleague, I have listened to you quite carefully, and I have noted that part of your speech. We don't need Putin, our government is the best agent, the agents. Now I don't know if you used a single number or plural. From that sentence of yours, our government is probably Russia's best agent. So now, somehow, you're taking it back, or you're turning it down. I say again, I understand that you can have any opinion on the submitted material, criticize it, it is the legitimate right of the opposition, but to accuse and compare the government with a Russian agent, in my opinion it is over the line and the members of the SPD, and that is something to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u73	Mrs Peštová wants to respond with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u74	I would, then, before I speak, I would like to thank Mr Výborný for introducing me so beautifully here, yes, that is really very nice of you. I don't think it's worth your character, but if you want to fit in, go with it. Anyway, I'm glad you guys talked this out with each other, but I'm still waiting for those answers. I asked the Minister, and I am still waiting for answers that I have not yet received, so that Mr Výborný, through Mr President, you know, I had questions, I just want answers, which is why I went to the counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u75	We will continue the general debate. Next in line is Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u76	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to enter this opposition window here and say a few facts that I think are important to hear here. Maybe I'm just getting started, I'm getting this meeting now, or, uh, virtually. These last few days, I've been doing a little bit of counting of the support that the state should put on energy, the one for pensions, the one for paramedics, and so on, and I've gotten to the amounts that exceed at least half of the state budget, and I haven't counted it any more. So I would just like to ask that colleagues who are proposing these aids actually put it in the context of the previous proposals rather than discussing them in such an island way. But of course it's up to each of them to consider it. However, as I say, in the last two weeks, at least half of the state's budget has been distributed here to increase the support of this one, that one. I would perhaps remind you again - and it has already been said several times here that Putinův war aggression in Ukraine is clearly responsible for the current situation on the energy market. That must be said over and over again. Putinův aggression on Ukraine is the main cause of rising energy prices. The second factor, of course, is strategic errors. The strategic mistakes that have been made in recent years. And now I don't want to say if it's Mr. Karel Havlíček, Andrej Babiš, or František Vomáčka. They've just been made in the past few years, and now it's coming back to us. That is the second factor why we have such problems today with both energy supply and, of course, their prices. A hundred percent dependence on Russian gas is a fact. We are one of the worst... we are one of the worst countries in the EU, I believe among the first three that have the highest dependence on Russian gas. Unfilled gas reservoirs, that's another factor that at first significantly limited us. The unstarted preparation of gas pipelines that would lead gas from Poland is another factor. Again, I'm not saying it's Mr. Karel Havlíček or Andrej Babiš, it's just that. The fact that we have to deal with this fact is a fact. And the fact that we have to deal with this in six months, because I warn you that this government was given a mandate just before Christmas last year, that is, in December, so in six months these things have to be dealt with, is also a fact. I'll remind you that the gas reservoirs are currently being filled, I think, 75%. I'm looking at the Minister, I think so, thank you. At 75 per cent of zero almost, or from 13 per cent, as it originally was, LGN supplies are secured, that the purchased capacity is on storage tanks abroad. And these are things that have actually succeeded fairly record-breakingly in a short time. Here I would only answer those who say the government is doing nothing. He does, like this. He's fixing mistakes from the past. I am glad that there have been no mistakes that have proved to be significant mistakes here and that we have not succumbed to the pressure that, for example, I will not name specific people again, let them download it to themselves, who called for forgiveness of VAT on fuel, for example. [[14.30 hours]] I am glad that there have been no mistakes that have proved to be significant mistakes here, and that we have not succumbed to the pressure that, for example, I will not name specific people again, let them download it to themselves - who called for VAT forgiveness, for example on fuel. This was one of the fundamental mistakes, such a dead end that showed in other countries that the effect of VAT forgiveness on fuel affects about 14 days, after 14 days the price returned to the original price. This means VAT has disappeared and, of course, margins have simply spread between the supply chain or business chain, meaning the state pays or does not have revenue, and the final consumer, who should feel it, does not feel it, so a clear dead end reduction, or forgiveness of VAT on fuel, for which we have been asked here. I guess I could name another one and another, but I don't want to do any historical reminiscences here in any way, if, of course, it's from a rather short period of time. Today is a table of an amendment to the Energy Act, which is more or less based on my reading, two such basic tasks or reasons. The first, of course, is to help citizens with rising prices and the second - and it is quite crucial, and she doesn't sound very much here, and I would like to underline it, maybe I would put it on number one - and that is, it motivates them to save, which will be absolutely essential for this winter season. The fact that we've managed to cancel the renewables charge, that they'll see that the customer or consumer will see zero on the invoice, how economical the tariff is set, we've already talked about it a few times, I'm not going to repeat it here, but I would go back to that point number two, that is, to the savings, and why they're so crucial. Here we have to realize that we are actually getting into a situation where there could be significant regulations in this particular area, of course, by declaring regulatory degrees, many of them remember when they were announced by the press and on the radio of the regulatory degree every day. The fact that this can happen, and the fact that it can happen, that supplies, gas, in particular, will, of course, be restricted or regulated in some way, is simply a situation that we have to deal with. I am glad that the government is aware of this, and it is in some way that it motivates these savings, because it is a matter of fundamental importance. According to the MIT's information, we have savings against last year somewhere at a figure of 20 percent compared to last year. If we could achieve savings of up to 30 percent, we are no longer far from it, 30 percent, so far as I know, and if I have the right information from the MIT, then we would have this winter season, which is absolutely critical before the effects of these measures occur, so in this winter there should be no dramatic or even no regulation at all, that means shutting down the industry. Of course, I have to say here that as far as households are concerned, households should not be threatened at all. This means that this winter, this season, is critical, and there should, of course, be enough resources after that other than Russian gas. We must, of course, behave - and all that I say, provided that there is no more gas flow from Russia, because this is, of course, a situation that we must also count on - so I say that savings are important and not only motivated by saving money, that is, for low-income people, an absolutely essential criterion, but of course, the savings must be across and towards consumers who can theoretically afford to pay a higher price for gas. So I think this is a subject that we should highlight here more, light up more, and support it more. Of course, it is necessary to continue with some diversification of energy supplies, to speed up legislation, to support renewable sources, especially renewables for households, for companies, for family homes, to assemble on rooftops so that really companies, family houses can supply as soon as possible, or produce electricity themselves, and that is also clear, but these are not things that are going to happen immediately, these are things that are long-term, but there is still some need to work on this in some way. I believe that the result of this crisis will be that we will go through it with honor, that the Czech economy and Czech society will be stronger and more resilient. I'm convinced of that. We believe that this crisis will strengthen us, and a resilient Czech economy, a resilient Czech society will emerge victorious from this crisis, thanks to the measures that are now being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u77	Now again, with Mrs Peštová's point of fact. Mr. Foldyna will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u78	I must respond to Mr Kučera. And like I said, Topka's leaving again. In any case, through Mr President, if he were sitting here from the beginning, he would have heard Mr Havlíček's beautiful assessment of the history here. This means that it began in 1997, as refineries, gas pipelines, ČEZ and so on were sold. So I don't know why he has to keep calling on Mr. Havlíček here, he has to call on Mr. Babiš, and then he's going to say Mr. Vomáčka. So I think it was pointless, first of all. I wanted to ask him, too bad he left again, classically, I wanted to ask him when he was sitting on the Economic Committee today, whether it seemed legal to him, otherwise it couldn't be said - if it seemed completely comfortable, completely cool, they'd get five or six amendments on the table, which are very comprehensive, which are changing overnight, several times when he calls on here, how beautiful it is, how pink it all is, how beautiful and beautifully prepared it is, that I expected him to respond to it, and I would like to hear his opinion. But maybe I'll learn about Babiš and Havlíček again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u79	The next one, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Foldyna. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. I told my colleague in the hallway I'd talk to him to come over here, we're friends. Well, I'll take the liberty of making a comment on what my colleague here said. It seems to me a little bit, and that's a series of answers or even performances by government officials, that's a fairy tale of thousands and one nights. It's beautiful when you talk about the full tanks and the filled gas tanks. Just tell me where they are, who they belong to, who filled them, and then tell me what distribution network, and how much you're gonna give it to these citizens. What do we have to prepare for in September, October? I was at the market in Decin yesterday. They would have given you if you'd gone there. Seriously, I wish you could hear what these people are saying. I'm famous there, so everyone calls me, the thugs, they cry because as their energy prices rise - they make sausages - they have to pay for energy, so they're done. Then those people standing by the market with the net, they're done, too, if they have to pay for the goods. They said horrible things to you, and I can't say it here, because you can't talk like that here, like a foursome in a pub. I'm sure you'd understand. You probably don't want to understand, or some of you already understand, you're probably afraid of it. I think in the fall you're gonna get a hard-on in the municipal elections because it's not about the municipal elections, it's about what you're doing here to the public, and you have to realize that. Again, through my colleague: Michal, tell me what gas tanks you filled, what you filled them with, who filled it, and how you distributed it, and how much for the citizens when you tell it here. Otherwise, it's a story of a thousand and one nights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u81	With another factual remark, Mr Juchelka will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will also speak to my honored colleague, Mr Kučer. The opposition window... I would also like coalition Members to speak here, to also give us their opinion on how fast it was, or vice versa, how slow it was. I'm so excited that they're gonna be performing here, too, and that we're gonna have a little discussion. I am also waiting, of course, for the answers of the coalition minister Síkela. The support is, of course, proposed by ministers, we propose different options as opposition. Of course, when they add up, there is some amount, but of course you can choose from these options: either to tax VAT, either to forgive renewable energy charges and so on. That's just an offer you have to react to. At this point, you are responding to it by giving a great deal of energy law a few hours ago with five amendments that none of these Members who sit here could study. We did it during the covideo. We did it during the covid, and it was unpredictable what was happening here during the covid, and I think and I am proud of the way in which we managed to resolve all this despite the Committee on Social Policy, which was the most busy committee with the MIT in the context of covid assistance. [[14.40 hours]] As for yours, as you said, you didn't want much help like we did, so you suggested - or you have proposed or already agreed - a ban on the incorporation of the biocomponent into fuel. Of course, no one follows this because it goes against the European Commission. However, if it doesn't start to mix, the bio-component, into fuel, it costs 13 billion crowns. And where does that oil come from? From Putin, dear Mr Kučera, through Mr President, it is at the rate of CZK 13 billion. Or from anywhere else, of course. So about this right over here. Otherwise 21 percent of VAT forgiveness during November and December was excellent and people felt it on invoices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Kobza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I would just go back to the fairy tale empire that my colleague Foldyna spoke of, because the support of renewable resources, the installation of photovoltaics, collectors and windbreakers on rooftops... Gentlemen, do you know that we are in the Czech Republic, that we are in Central Europe, that the sun doesn't shine here in winter and that the wind blows sometimes, sometimes properly, but also long enough maybe not at all? So how in God's name are you going to replace this system with a stable, stable energy source, which is power plants, heat plants, and gas heating at all? You can't be serious. Remember one thing, too. We're talking about gas and oil, but it's not just energy. Gas, it's also fertilizers for agriculture. If there's no gas, there's no fertilizer. If we don't have fertilizers, we can talk about the crop and what we're going to eat. Oil, it's not just petrol and diesel. This is also petrochemicals and related material emergency, which comes in the area of plastic production and the like. So let's remember that the basic principle is, when there's something lacking, the prices what? Prices are rising. If you want to regulate this mechanism in some way - which has already successfully regulated the previous regime here all along - it is really not enough for you to consider whether this tax will be reduced or this tax. Here we need to come up with a system measure that is far-reaching and has sufficient coverage to help the poorest who need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I will also respond to my colleague Kučera, by your means, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, you've changed the cause because you've been talking about how the government has made savings here or how the government's going to make savings. It's the other way around. These savings are due to the fact that energy prices are so crazy high that, of course, they save both residents and companies. They know how to handle it. Honestly, we're probably saving each and every one of us in this situation. So it's not the government's fault. That wouldn't be the credit of our government, it wouldn't be the credit of this government. Of course, the only savings that the government or the government can take credit for are savings that result from austerity measures that are somehow supported from various funds, which we can definitely agree on. But these savings, especially gas consumption, are simply because these people are looking at how much they already have on that invoice, just like the companies, and they're going to look at it even more. But all of a sudden, the topic of savings began to appear so discreetly, and let's look at Germany. They've been talking about it for at least a few weeks. Even Vice Chancellor Habeck talks about showering for five minutes tops. So I don't know if the members of the Czech government... And I don't ironize that, because when I was the Minister of the Environment and we were dealing with drought, I also urged people to take a shower before they bathed in the bathtub, and so the drinking water was saved. That's what I think is the example that the government should send and not be afraid of, because today I feel a little afraid to report unpleasant news to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Chairman of the Pirates Michálek Club is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u88	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give an opinion on this proposal for our parliamentary club. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, his team, especially the section of Deputy Minister Neděla, my colleague, Deputy Minister Třešňák, for preparing this proposal, which is a real help with expensive energy. As has been said many times here, it is Putin who has increased the prices, and the maximum we can do is to help with expensive energy. But people, whether they are in the village or in the cities, realize that we must save energy because they are expensive and rare, and the whole system of how we approach it as a government must respect this fact. There's no way we're going to have ideas here that we're going to cut taxes across the board and so on, which, of course, would lead to energy being wasted in places where they're not to be wasted. The first solution we came up with was the energy bonus in February of this year. We had a check like this. At the time it was still 800 crowns. Unfortunately, since then, the price increase has continued, so today the amount on the check would have been higher. We have prepared a proposal for a solution that we have sent to the Minister, who was just based on the fact that savings should appear directly on people's accounts, that it should not be in the form of a subsidy, but that the savings should primarily be on citizens' accounts, but not in the form that taxes will be abolished, but that the tariff will motivate savings. I am glad that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has managed to prepare this, and I think that is an important change. In fact, it is also basically what was originally proposed by the YES movement, because it was the YES movement that promoted so-called vouchers last autumn, but unfortunately, the then government failed to prepare them. I still remember when we were in Questions by Václav Moravce and I told the Pirates Club that we were ready to support the proposal for vouchers as prepared by the Ministry of Industry and Trade during the previous government, but unfortunately the proposal was never completed. So now we have this proposal, and this solution is flexible for one thing, which I think is very important in this situation, that we can flexibly set the discount rate according to how winter will develop, how state budget options will develop, of course. The solution is fair and helps the middle class and the wide layers of the population. This is also an important thing that we have been trying to do to help - because it is essentially about returning part of the tax back to citizens so that it hits the middle class, so that even these people can really benefit from the proposed austerity tariff. But it needs to be said that the solution proposed by the opposition would be a solution that would be extremely costly, because even in cases like heated pools and so on it would mean that we would be giving discounts to people who would be motivated to consume more energy in this way. There was a very emotional speech from Mr Okamura and other opposition representatives. I would very much like it if we could avoid cheap rhetoric, if the opposition, in addition to performing here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, which is okay, cooperated more with the government, brought its constructive ideas directly to the negotiations with the various responsible ministers, because that is not what is happening today. In the last parliamentary term, we as pirát met with a number of ministers. When he and Minister Vojtěch dealt with the covid, there were regular meetings, we lectured on our proposals, which we prepared and prepared in this way, so many of them were put into life. I want to ask, how many meetings have you initiated with Minister Síkela? How many times have you gathered to push through any suggestions if you think you've done better? [[14.50 hours]] Because I really get the feeling that this is just rhetoric, and that if the government comes up with the idea of giving the citizens 30 billion off the savings tariff, you just say it's going to be 60 billion, and you just double the amount without realizing that we have to give out what we have. We can't put on debt, we can't put on debt for future generations, and this is true not only in the financial field, but also in the area of responsibility for nature, for the planet, so that the other acts of opposition from Mr. Fiala, who demonizes people here, who are interested in the environment, who question the scientific consensus that there is warming, that one has to worry about producing less carbon dioxide and that we have to worry about pushing climate targets... I would like him to actually go and explain this to the winemakers in Moravia, why they do not want to support climate targets that threaten - where their crops are threatened by climate instability. To tell the foresters and people who like to go into the woods that spruce forests will not be there in decades, because they will be eaten by barkworm, which will multiply more because of warmer weather, which is not local here - the spruce forests concerned to tell those farmers who care about the fields and so on. So it's just the causes of the crisis. No, the real cause of the crisis is Putin, Putin has made our energy prices more expensive, and the fact that we're doing something for the climate and that it's going to cost some money, we're doing it for ourselves, we're not doing it for someone else, we're doing it to have functional ecosystems and a planet that we can live in that we can live in for generations to come. So I'd like to ask that there's no question. As to where to take it, I think that is the fundamental question that we should be answering responsibly here, because if no one is questioning the need to help citizens, but we must say where the new yields are. Here, of course, are the proceeds from the fact that it has been chosen more on depéháček, from allowances and so on, but again a large part of it has to be said that it has been used to valorize pensions, so when all this is deducted, the amount of money left over isn't really there. We need to name this clearly. Again, we came up with suggestions on where to get the money. They're being discussed, they're the extraordinary profits of energy companies, they're bank contributions that they were supposed to give voluntarily, and here I think we're on the same boat with the YES that set up the fund that banks were supposed to volunteer to make money for projects. Well, how many do you think they took? They didn't do anything, and no projects came out of it. So these are the resources that have to start to be fulfilled, and the commitments and promises in the memorandum that are not being respected today. And that is what we should strive to get the money to help citizens. And now I would like to take a brief look at the real expression of our nationalist part of the opposition. To what Mr Okamura performed, because it was he who performed here with the fact that this government is sold out - a man who systematically praised Russia here, a man, if you look at his Facebook profile, you will find many and many contributions when he praised Mr Putin. The only thing I would like to appreciate is that he has found so much conscience in himself that he has hidden those posts on Facebook, that he no longer has Putin's eulogy there, and that, indeed, nationalism in the future may profil so that it will be Czech nationalism, not Russian nationalism. If he wants to start with savings, he can, of course, start with him, and we are - we did not want the proposal, and I say this openly, the proposal to reduce value added tax because it would help the richest. Look at Mr. Okamura, he's got a huge house, and he's got a hot tub on the terrace. Such a person who has an open luxury hot tub, we would give a discount of CZK 1,000! We'd give him a grand off his taxes, the money we need to allocate to the most necessary. So what kind of government would we be if we sponsored the richest rich guys who have outdoor hot tubs to heat them up for cheaper energy? No! That's why we went the way of the cost-effective tariff, and the money goes where it's needed for normal people, and not for the richest layers. Yes, it took a long time, but in the end we came to a solution that is economical, which motivates the investigation and which is also socially fair and fair to citizens. And for that, I would like to thank our government. So our government will certainly not go in the same way as Mr Okamura, that he is undermining Russia, where, in fact, Mr Okamura, here in the Chamber of Deputies and on his Facebook, produced statements such as that our government is attacking Russia. It's as if it's this government that's starting a war. Again - let them go and say these things, these shameful statements of theirs, to the mothers who fled here because a bomb broke their house, they had to take their children and come here quickly. No, really, it wasn't this government that produced the war, and it's shameful that such statements are being made here. So once again, thank you for being able to push through this fair and middle class and basically wide layers helping the economical tariff. It's a tariff that won't trigger any bureaucracy for citizens, they won't have to process any vouchers, they'll just see it right in their accounts, which is what we wanted and promoted from the start. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u89	Your speech raised several factual points, and Mrs Peštová will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u90	Of course, I would like to respond to Mr Michálek. Mr Member, if you were sitting here - through Mr President - from the start, you would have heard the speech of Mrs Ožanová, who, of course, remembered a certain memorandum that was signed between the Economic Committee and between the Ministry of Industry and which, of course, is not being fulfilled, unfortunately, in the sense that the Ministry of Industry did not communicate at all and did not give any feedback at all, but it did not give any connection at all. No connection at all! They may have been communicating, but they've only been communicating with the ruling coalition or with someone from the ruling coalition, but nothing's been communicated with the opposition, which is why now there's this concert you see here. Mr President, these are the amendments. [[He's showing a bunch of files.]] See? It's not one-page whispers. You read it? Did you see that? Have you read them? Then may I ask you, Mr President, through Mr President, to explain them to me if you have read them? [[Off-Mike reaction.]] But it's not about that, you haven't seen it either. We didn't see it either. He didn't actually see it. And that's why there's the debate that's here. That's why the debate is because we haven't had the opportunity to comment or to see it. I mentioned here that the law has been in interdepartmental commentary proceedings for three days. Three days! And then came this patrol of the amendments. Does that seem normal to you, Mr Member, through Mr President? Does three days in the interreort seem like a lot to you for a law like that? You call on us to be transparent, everything has to be done according to legislative rules. Does it seem normal to you three days for this law in the interdepartment? Not to me, don't be mad at me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u91	Mr Juchelka, then Mr Kobza, then Mr Foldyna, followed by Mr Kott, Mr Kubíček and then Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u92	Yes, it is. That is so, Mr President, thank you very much. I will speak, of course through you, to President Michálek, because he said here - and I did not like it very much, even I was offended, Mr Michálek, through Mr Ing, of course. Skopeček, MBA, that we don't give any proposals to the coalition at all. [[Jollyness.]] That's not true! So we have here, for example, the renewable energy charge and its forgiveness, which, of course, the coalition is already accepting, and it's great that we forced it into this within a few months. The mobility allowance, we already have it in the system, and the government has already discussed it, but of course this government doesn't have anything like it, it just promises. Higher parenting, we have it in the system as an amendment to the law, it's already been discussed by the government, and you promised as pirát, but I still don't see it anywhere in the system, this amendment to the law, the pirate one. VAT, forgiveness, yes, that was during November and December, we forgave VAT 21 percent on energy long before Putinův's aggression, when energy prices were rising precisely because of Green Deal, and it helped all citizens on invoices minus 21 percent. And I could go on like this. [[15.00 hours]] If we can somehow tax those banks despite the Minister of Industry and Trade here, a former banker who I don't think will let that happen, then of course you'll be cool. But I don't think so, because I won't vote for it either, because I am in favour of a transparent tax environment and, above all, which would be predictable for all investors and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, too. I'm just gonna fix you up, I have some academic degrees, but it's not exactly an MBA. Next in line, Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mr Michálek, because his scientific knowledge and his study of planetology are truly admirable. I'm sure he's in control of disciplines like paleoclimatology, stratigraphy, palaeontology from precambria to holodeck, and he's got it in his fingertips because he knows or knows that climate changes accompany the planet all the time, and that planetary life can't be stopped. I'm sure he knows Milankovičův's cycles. He knows what Platon is, the platonic year. It knows the fluctuations and oscillations of the Earth's axis, the periods of these movements, and it knows the distribution of heat that the planet receives from the Sun, which is still the same, but it's just changing places that fall according to how it is in Milankovičův's cycle that the planet is inclined towards the Sun, whether the rays fall obliquely or perpendicularly, so it certainly knows all this and of course we can reverse all of this by stopping drowning with coal and freezing. It reminds me very much when Veolia bought a water network for a mouthful, increased the water 50 times and, to her surprise, people started saving. I've heard the word "save" about 80 times today. And then all of a sudden, her intakes went down. Well, what did she do? She's upped her prices. And when people started saving up even more, she raised prices. But for God's sake, remember the stress you put people into and how it will affect life here. I mean, it's desperate what I have to listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u95	So it was an insight into astrophysics and another will be performed by colleague Foldyna with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u96	[[And don't scream.]] No, no, I'm not gonna scream. When I was listening to Mr. Michálek, I felt like I woke up in the '50s, that an alley committee where Okamura lives is already walking around the house, looking at what that Okamura's window is, if he's putting up flags, if he's celebrating properly. What the hell is he building in that garden? He built a hot tub for his tax money. Comrades and comrades, we need to think about what this Okamura is doing, he told us here a neomarxist MP of the Pirates who are four. Yeah, I'm afraid I'm right. I'm glad you're conservative, odeeska, that she's waking up. I hope you guys wake up, you're crazy. How can you be in a group with neomarxists? These people are crazy. Look, they're gonna be checking people's bathtubs in the fall to see if they're fighting Putin properly or dirty. To see the lady's knees out of the tub, the pirát will walk around Prague and check people and see if you're wearing a sweater and if you're drowning a lot or not. I really got into reading Svandrlik or some book from the '50s. I've been listening to the current Pirate Party representative who looks like they're not here anymore, because sometimes there's a lady here, a little girl like that, talking, and what she can do is spoil it, she'll succeed. And then there's two guys running down the hall like this, and a whole row of them, it's like a school choir. It's ridiculous. [[Laughter and applause from the left side of the hall.]] It's just, the Okamura, the Okamura! He's 50, he made money, he taxed them, he made a hot tub, and the pirát got vánoce out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u97	With another factual remark, Mr Kott will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, it is not much to say after such a speech, but I would like to respond, by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Michálek. He's perfectly put together all the things that I don't think have anything to do with it. The green agreement, of course - I don't think any of us is here to devastate the environment, to destroy something that nature can't undo. But it's a course of course for good times, and assuming there's a war going on, food self-sufficiency is on some level, security, I wouldn't even like to talk about it, calling Green Deal here, I don't think it's entirely right. That's the first thing. And about the other thing. We're dealing with households here, which is perfectly fine, but we're not dealing with the critical infrastructure that Mr. Michálek here has been talking about in terms of agriculture and food industry. Because I think that when we have milk in the stables, we won't be able to redesign it into products and provide enough food for our business network, so I think this is the direction we should take. And since we've been wanting to do this maybe three, four, six years ago, months, six months ago, this is what I think is a matter that we should also think about. And I don't know if it would be entirely appropriate for the Energy Act, but at least for the government's critical infrastructure management, it should be prepared as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u99	Thank you. Mr Kubíček, Mr Okamura, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we have any pirát here right now, but I'd take the liberty of having a little educational window. Mr Michálek, through Mr President, has described here beautifully how they will not give it to those people who will be in the hot tubs and how they will not heat up the pools. Well, it turns out he didn't read it because it had nothing to do with it. These are the tariffs that will be set, and you all know that there are some tariffs D2, D45, D65 and so on, on the gas as well, and, of course, on the basis of these tariffs, if you're just cooking, drowning, lighting and so on, the support that is will be set. So then I really recommend the Pirate Party to at least one of them read it, because we have specialists for each side. I don't understand health, either, and I'm turning to my colleagues, so I think this would be quite pleasant for someone to not tell about something they didn't even see from the plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u101	With a point of fact, President Okamura will now speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u102	[[Screaming from the diaper: rich man.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will now respond to the inventions of the pirate MP Michálek. You know, I have a hot tub at home like tens of thousands of people in the Czech Republic. So you back home with your girlfriend, your girlfriend making porn with a roller and a cucumber. [[laughter from the left side of the hall]] They've all read it in the media, so it's everyone's business. Me in the hot tub, you hot tub - cylinder, well, that's your business. Mr. Michálek, by your means, you asked me last term, if we wouldn't be discussing your privacy, these very things. You were here to ask me, and you begged us not to discuss. And now you're discussing some things that somebody has at home and stuff like that it's not bad. That's why I said it like that. And as long as you're acting like this, we're gonna keep this public information here. Second thing: what did Vice-President Pikal do with the Pirates at the Russian Embassy? I mean, we all read it in the media that he was there. He was walking around the Russian embassy, there at the party. So do you guys have any connections with Russia or something? Everyone knows about me that I had nothing to do with Russia. I don't go there, I've never dealt with a Russian politician in my life, I don't have a penny from Russia. Me at all. These are your desperate attacks because you don't have anything on the SPD. [[15.10 hours]] Next thing you know, you're part of organized crime. After all, it was also in the media that you recommended to the National Development Bank a few weeks ago, Martin Sankot, who met in a secret conspiracy apartment with a closely prosecuted lobbyist and head of the crime mob Redl. You're normally part of that organized crime case in STAN! And another thing: Your Vice-President Richterová, Vice-President of the House, defended on the radio last week the organized crime of the STAN movement in the government, in your coalition Pirates-STAN, saying that Vít Rakušan cannot resign because the Czech Republic is now in a position to chair the EU Council. So you're still defending organized crime, and you're part of it. Ew, it's disgusting!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u103	We are going back to the general debate. The next one will be Mr Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's hard to follow up on the Pirate side after all, but anyway, I'd rather go back to the matter of energy, I'd leave out some porn scenes and stuff that I think doesn't even belong here. Anyway, first of all, I have to admit that the Ministry has finally prepared something, but it has to be said, and I think it has been said many times, but I will say it again, too late. Three, four months at least should have been here by now. We could have already worked on it, but also, we could have worked on it in standard mode. We could've all gotten involved, just like we all offered to cooperate with the Ministry. What we have here, from my point of view, is indeed a pasquil, which will at least make our citizens feel better. His complexity probably caught up with the people who prepared the proposal, and then they worked it out. For many aspects of the aid, it was not clear exactly how it would take place. People themselves would probably need advisors to know what kind of support they're going to get. It wasn't until we finally got the amendments on the table that solved this problem, but until yesterday we didn't actually know what we were going to talk about here today. It was probably classified. I really must express my concern as to how this whole proposal came about until the final form that we are about to approve today. After submitting the bill, which was actually almost scattered by dozens of objections in the very short inter-ministerial commentary procedure, you submitted five amendments to us to the Members a few hours before the approval process in the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat, a few hours! In fact, the members of the Committee did not reach the table until the opening of the negotiating point. Don't be mad at me, but this hasn't been done before! If these were simple amendments, I would understand. Friends, it was five major amendments! And don't be mad at me, this is a setup! You want to approve the bill in a short hearing, and this is how you behave? Excuse me, Minister, but for me, this is the height of arrogance. It's an outrage, and it really feels like it's on purpose. I understand we have an exceptional situation. Two months ago, Mr Minister, we made an agreement with you on the Economic Committee, an agreement that all political entities will be involved in the law-making process and, in particular, this law, all Members, from each representative club. What did you do? You bailed on this deal! And you actually showed us this, not only to us opposition Members, but also to your own coalition Members, Minister, did he really show us his back again and confirm that you think you will do your best? Alone, and you don't need us. But what is also to cry is that you don't really need your MPs anymore. We are concerned about people, and even though you have brought us hot threads sewn together by pasculi, quickly covered by amendments, I still see it as at least something that will partly help people, and that is why I am also prepared to support it. However, this cannot put an end to the debate on this issue. A study called Vulnerable Customer and Energy Poverty was carried out under YES. It's actually a solution to support vulnerable customers, and that's actually what the novel today lacks. I don't know why, Minister, and the question is, did you even see the document? The only thing that would really support citizens is a price cap that would give them confidence. The certainty they can afford. Today, they don't know how and what will happen. That's actually how our families begin to live. It certainly did not leave you cold, Minister, that domestic consumption had dropped significantly. This will, of course, manifest itself as a major negative in the state register. And that is the policy of the current government: to starve citizens in the first place, then starve companies, then starve the state. Well, congratulations, you're doing well. The gem is no longer only about low-income citizens, but also about the middle class. Another energy increase has been announced. Basic food has increased by tens of percent. The mortgaged families receive new repayment regulations increased by tens of thousands in the order. A family with a mortgage on apartment 2+1 and two children today can't make ends meet with two average salaries. That's crazy! Are they gonna go to the meds? Is that what we're thinking? Moreover, price growth is so rapid that the contribution, especially if it is one-off, will not solve anything at all. E.ON announced an increase in electricity prices by 15 percent. For gas, increase by 50 per cent of the total price. CEZ has increased electricity in the most common tariff for households in a product fixed for three years since 1 July and has increased again since 1 August! Now it costs one megawatt hour of CZK 6,025, from August 7,464, i.e. more than a fifth. Centropol will also increase the price of electricity for Mini fixed to three years from the original CZK 5,205 to CZK 6,381 per megawatt hour as of 1 July. With this price increase, the proposed contribution we're talking about today is not going to solve anything. So let's think hypothetically, somebody's gonna pay backup 2,000 a month. He will receive a contribution of 6,000, so from October to December he will be actually satisfied, because he will not pay back. In January, however, prices and advances will rise jumpingly and perhaps just to 6,000, and suddenly one will not be able to afford to pay the advance at all. Prices are rising and rising over time, which in your proposal only solves the fact that the government will be able to modify the overall contribution. But will the government have the will to continue helping our people without being under pressure? Personally, I'm sorry, but I don't think so. Although the sentence "After definitive approval of the amendment, the government will decide on specific final tariff parameters, i.e. what discount they will provide to customers," this sentence actually sounds like a blank check to the government and she is a blank check to the government. The government I already have today - don't be mad at me - I don't believe in "good day" either. But by supporting this proposal, by supporting this proposal, I will send you your favourite signal that I will monitor your actions very closely and strive for real support for Czech citizens. What, Minister, will you do further in the field of heating? I really have not read from the proposal how we will actually support the field as such, and I really consider this issue to be fundamental nowadays. [[15.20 hours]] The next question is how we will support new technologies. This may sound like science fiction, but have you heard of small modular reactors? Isn't it time to intensively support research and development so that it can or can't, another alternative source? We talk about diversification all the time, so let's not just talk about it. The next question is the promotion of coal. Some countries around us are already very intensively addressing this issue. What about us? Shall we open the question at last? Are we going to admit that it takes another 20 years? Or are we gonna keep quiet and say, "No, we don't need coal power plants and our citizen's flannel pajamas will do? It won't. Or do you want a coal holiday again, like they used to be here in the '50s? [[The reaction from the diaper from many sides that various Members have yet to experience it.]] In the '70s, I'm sorry, and thank you for the education. Well, I'm sure you don't, no matter what time they were at. We shall sit before the Council of the European Union. As Chairman of the Minister of Industry, have you already opened up the question of the possibility of leaving the Leipzig Stock Exchange, or has Germany forbid you to open this question? I think that right now we have a chance to step on this topic and find a way to really start consuming our energy in the Czech Republic without the additional costs of the Leipzig Stock Exchange sticking to it. Why? It is clear to me that this is not easy, but if we represent Czech citizens through you, Minister, I dare to challenge you: Please solve this! What is the difference between grain and electricity for a Czech citizen? I dare say, in fact, none. So why can't I export only electricity that I don't consume, like the one with grain? Yeah, of course, you tell me it's complicated, it's a different field, it's something else. But people don't care about the reason at all. They have a look at it and they say to themselves, "We want it simple and for us. What we're gonna make, we're not gonna let someone else get expensive and bring back, it's nonsense. Then why? There are emission allowances and business with them. When are we gonna shut down the dealers? Once again, we are chairing the Council of the European Union. Now it's time to open the subject and deal with it. These are important things, they are ultimately paid by the Czech citizen at prices. And why would he pay them? Does that feel right to you? Not to me. The important question is also: How do we support our companies? And now let us talk mainly about companies whose increased production costs related to energy costs will be negative again in the wallets of Czech citizens at the final stage, at the price of the final product. For example, a baker. According to the logic of the proposal you're putting here, the solution for an enormous hot roll price would actually be a roll-off, and I don't think we want that. Once again, Minister, I will ask you to keep your word so that, when we agree on cooperation, we show interest and you accept the interest, so that this cooperation is really to communicate, because we want to communicate with you, we want to participate in the preparation of laws, we want to be there, we do not need to surprise each other. Why? Then we may have completely unnecessary debates. But there must be debates, because if we work together and we are represented by experts from all sides, we will avoid the debate. But that's not what you want. We're talking about people. We believe that if, at least in this area, we would pull together, not together, but together, not under the tent, but publicly and in plenary, we would be able to really help people and, above all, give them confidence. Of course they don't come to work to survive, but to live. Also make sure they're able to take care of their children. And to make sure that the government they've chosen is there for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, too. I'd like to ask Mr. Vice President if he could relieve me so I can get out. [[Vice-President Havlíček does not respond, he has headphones in his ears. Laughs in the hall.]] Please, if you'd like to relieve me for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. I was listening, I was wearing headphones, and I needed to hear something. I assume you wanted a word, you got one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u107	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I pulled you out of a more interesting listen. I would like to respond to my colleague. Once again, I understand the legitimate right here to criticise the government's progress, discuss individual measures, say what is wrong with them, what is good about them. Nevertheless, I ask that we use adequate words in this rhetoric. You used the term that the current government wants to starve fellow citizens of the Czech Republic, then starve companies. I think that even a year ago, when we were in the opposite position, the YES movement ruled, and we were the ones from the opposition who criticized, so we were the hard opposition, we criticized harshly, but we did not use the term that the YES movement wanted to starve the citizens of the Czech Republic, because we did not think so, we just felt that the way the YES movement is doing economic policy is not ideal and that it would cause us problems. So, colleague, I believe that you simply suspect that no one, and I believe that I can put my hand in the fire for any minister of this government, none of these ministers want to starve the citizens of the Czech Republic or the Czech company. The fact that we have difficult months ahead, that the purchasing power of the population will fall, that the living conditions will deteriorate, I suppose. On the other hand, we are still among the most advanced countries in the world, we have overtaken a number of original European countries with regard to gross domestic product per capita, and however this may be difficult for some families, for some individuals, to talk about starvation to me in the case of the Czech Republic with very low unemployment and yet with a certain standard of living it seems extremely excessive. I understand the criticism, however, when I listen to the suggestions made by you and your colleagues, I would sum them up to two points. One is a price cap and the other is another massive expenditure from the state budget, either through an increase in benefits or any other measure. Price ceiling, we've had a chance to watch that several times in history. In the 1970's, he was applied to oil crises in the United States. It meant only one thing - a significant lack of commodity, on which the price ceiling was imposed, or speculators, and even higher price growth when the price ceiling became vacant, so it is not the ideal way. And the other massive spending from the state budget: on the one hand, there is no money in the state budget because of your previous government, and on the other hand, massive budget spending would continue to spin the inflation spiral and keep begging people. So it's not even a solution, Mr. Colleague. In that criticism, try putting relevant, other alternative ideas on the table, but make some sense. [[15.30 hours]] However, I would also like to comment on the coalition Members here, who say that only Putin, or mainly Putin, is responsible for high energy prices. Of course, I consider the war in Ukraine to be crazy, and I consider what Vladimír Putin is doing to be crazy, causing Europe's economic difficulties and the world, and it certainly leads to a crisis in the energy market that is deeper than it would have to be, but I am convinced that this is not the only factor in what is happening in the energy market today. We simply cannot forget that the European Union, in my view, has begun to prohibit any investment in any source that had a fossil adjective, that our partners have started to shut down clean, stable nuclear resources and instead opened up space only for renewable resources, which nevertheless need to be secured mainly by gas. So we shut down and banned investing in cheaper stable fossil resources, all the more we gave space to renewables, where the Russian gas was needed again, so we increased the dependence on the gas that we are facing today. So I believe that today's prices and today's energy crisis are a combination of at least two factors, namely the misguided green policy of the European Union in recent years and what was unleashed by Vladimír Putin in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. In fact, we have Mrs Peštová and Mr Adamec registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u109	I would like to respond to Mr Skopeček, through Mr President. I was, not so long ago, maybe three, four days ago, listening to 90th on ČT24, our MP Havlíček was there, and Mr. Deputy Třešňák from the Ministry of Industry was there. Both of them agreed on the ceiling. Now, you're saying that ceilinging isn't the way, so I'm surprised that some of you are saying, specifically, that ceilinging is the wrong way, and the minister, who really said, until the live transmission, that for him, it's the way, it's also the most elegant way that should be done or that would probably be good at this time if she had made it. [[Notes off the microphone from the news desk.]] But he really said it, Minister, I was watching it. Sorry, I'm sorry, I said Deputy. [[From the intelligence table: No, Minister.]] Yeah? Deputy Deputy Třešňák. [[- Please use the microphone.]] I can respond directly to the Minister, Madam President, I have done nothing wrong. So that's one thing. And then, of course, I'd really like to know what's going to happen -- now, of course, the bins are filled with, say, two thirds, and she's already fallen here, she's already flying in the machine guns -- and maybe that's not true: what happens if the gas doesn't really flow? Are there really any scripts here? And I would really like us to really calm people down, and not just people, but industry. What happens, what are the scenarios here? I know that there is an amendment that will turn off the first one or how it will be gradually disconnected. But I say, Minister Havlíček also said that the moment this happens, the industry, of course, will have to be restricted, it will have to be released, and it will bulge elsewhere. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u110	Thank you, too. To be clear, we need to have a discussion on the microphone so that everything is on the screen recording, which is why it is also about answering the microphone. Please, Mr. Ivan Adamec has submitted a factual report. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would perhaps also respond to the debate. I mean, aside from the excesses of personal assaults and the like, the property stuff, the whole debate is going on. But I would like to point out that we are still part of the European Union. I have nothing against criticism, but we must then honestly say that either we are members of the European Union, we want to be - and not because it is economically advantageous. The European Union did not arise for economic reasons after the war, it looks that way at first sight, but it was created as a defence of Europe after two world wars against war. And if anyone thinks that by leaving the European Union, we're gonna solve our energy market problems, I think they're out of their minds. And the second thing is that when we say A to Europe, we also have to say B. The common market has these, I would say, special qualities. When everything is running, everything is enough, so it's a market that's convenient for all sides. However, when something suddenly flies away, then suddenly we find, for example, in the case of electricity, that it is very, very problematic, very disadvantageous. And on the other hand, we can't say that we're gonna do the electricity ourselves, and we're gonna take the gas where? We need to get this straight. And as for the so-called Green Deal, I'll give it my opinion. At this point, I'm a big believer in quitting or completely redoing the Fit for 55 program. That's actually a very short time. I think those targets are completely out of reality. But when I hear it at those conferences today, they keep talking about it, they still think we're still there, but we're not there. And when we talk about Green Deal, Green Deal is 2050, that's a pretty long time. And I think the problem with the so-called green destiny is... [[Time, please, needs to be kept.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u112	And now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u113	I would like to respond to Mrs Peštová. I haven't seen the 90th, I haven't, but it doesn't matter. I consider it perfectly normal, natural that we can have different views within the coalition parties. While the Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Industry may consider price ceilings to be reasonable measures, I simply do not consider them to be reasonable measures for many reasons, and I think I have quite good cases of why it doesn't work, or that it brings a whole range of negative unintended consequences. I also think it is nonsense, for example, to set oil price ceilings now, because it would do even more harm than good. I consider it natural that we can differ within the coalition. I think that when we look at the YES movement, we also see a whole bunch of political opinions from right to left, and it is completely natural, even I think that YES was building part of its strategy on that, that it had a part that was willing and able to agree with another party from the opposite side of the political spectrum. If this is possible in one political party, don't be surprised that we can differ in one coalition as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u114	Thank you and now again factual, namely Mr Ivan Adamec and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u115	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will continue. The Green Deal, of course, 2050 is far away, and this is always about us getting to that goal rationally and I would say no to the Quape, as I say. The problem is, now we're talking about emission permits -- this was good for the Němec. They did not want to change this instrument, on the contrary, they supported this tax as a trading tax on the stock exchange, which I think is crazy because it significantly distorts the price. I don't think Green Deal's dead. And when the Prime Minister was in Brussels at the beginning of this crisis and he was talking to the other premieres of the 27 Europeans, I'm gonna tell you this secret. Only four of the 27 countries wanted to withdraw from the Green Deal, which - I am not an expert through the institutions of the European Union - is not even a blocking minority. That means everyone else wants it. And I think that everyone within Europe is now looking for a way out of this problem, looking for a variety of support. Some look at first glance that it will work, that it will be nice, then it turns out it's thrown money out the window - public money. And I have to say, it's still the same money. It's just that the money is paid by our citizens as taxes, and if we use it to support somewhere else, we're gonna miss it in a completely different place. And that's why we need some conservatism in my opinion, how we do these support. I wanted to say that I would like this discussion to actually address the proposal today. I understand the opposition, I said that I think this is how the debate is going to go, but on the other hand, let's just say, except for the exceptions, I've heard here that we're all going to support it. I think you said a lot of what you wanted to say, I think you said it perfectly fine for yourself, I say, except for the personal invectives that I personally hate. [[The time, please, is over.]] And let's actually finish this, and then let's not talk about those... [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u116	I'm sorry, I have to measure everyone the same way. I'm sorry, I really have to measure everyone the same way. The time has now come for Mr Aleš Juchelka's factual comment, and then Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please, two minutes, and I beg you very much to observe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u117	Thank you, and it's been three seconds. I will only respond here to the rapporteur and then to Mr Skopeček, through you. We're trying to debate here, of course. I think that I am debating very much I would say effectively within small spaces in factual remarks, but I still expect and hope that this will not happen that the Minister will speak before the final word so that we can still argue together and say opinions to each other, because perhaps further questions will arise from you. And I hope that it doesn't happen that the debate will close here, and in the final words, you're gonna be wading us around and answering our questions. I really do not want to do that, and I presume it, because some ministers of the government coalition have such a disorder. [[Vice-President Skopeček speaks off the microphone.]] To Mr. Skopečka, yes, of course there are different opinions. Here you can see that the pirát have these different opinions, however you call them through the media to all citizens. That means what does he have to choose from it? Does Deputy Secretary Třešňák have a choice? Or should he choose the opinion of his superior, Minister Síkela? I think you should proceed a little bit more uniformly, and the proof of this chaos here - not only opinional but also administrative - is that at the moment we are dealing with something that we got on the table a few hours ago. That's all. We have here five amendments and a large substance of one big amendment to the Energy Act. I am not afraid to say that this is the law of this year to dissolve between citizens and entrepreneurs of 66 billion, and I think that at least in the coalition there should be a unified view, a unified view, because if I have not read this here and none of these Members here, then you should say in a uniform way what you have agreed on in some way. And I say again, I want to discuss it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u118	Thank you. And now, Mr Marek Novák, with the fact that President Alena Schillerová is also registered, and then Vice-President Jan Skopeček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u119	Thank you for the floor. Only very briefly to the honourable colleague, Skopečka, by your means, Madam President. You know, don't be mad at me, but the way I feel about the situation is that the word starvation is right, I stand by it. Even when people come to me and say, "Please don't let us starve, it's the word of starvation that's left in my head." I understand that you don't agree with him, but I stand by him. We can talk about this word for five hours, I don't care. [[is]] The inflation spiral versus the ceiling: there are many renowned economists who say A, there are many renowned economists who say B, however, by supporting people within energy, we can spin the inflation spiral, can't we? I don't think so, but by supporting companies, it's not worth it, sure, by supporting companies, maybe. But on the other hand, who raises the prices? Who increases the prices of manufactured goods? Who raises prices on the counters? What exactly increases the price? I get it, but I stand by not turning the inflation spiral any more by supporting companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u120	Thank you, and now, therefore, President Alena Schillerová and with the last de facto, Mr Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I've got to pick up a little bit. It's not really on the subject, it's... You have opened up a European question here, Mr Adamč, through Madam Vice-President. You know, I opened Twitter today, and our MEP Martin Hlaváček put a video on it, so I could get my own picture. It was not his interpretation, he gave a video of how our Minister of Finance Stanjura, Vice-President for me, was responsible for almost the Eurosceptic ODS parties, answering the question of whether the debate was about shifting the so-called veto law. The right of veto - just for you - is simply a question of tax, budget, security that every country in 27 can say no. And look, world, Minister Stanjura, who has raised my voice many times here in the last parliamentary term and said: Well, that the European Union wants it, you are here, we are here for Czech citizens, so suddenly he will say that he is at the head of the European Union, the Czech Republic, so he must act as if he had used such a word. And then he said, "We haven't discussed it yet." Well, that's not even for discussion! Or do we want them to roll us? In order for the majority to decide and the Czech Republic not to have the opportunity to assert its interests? As a result, we have a number of things that we have defended, pushed and stopped there. So just like that, I don't know if there's a genius loci in there, but I was very, very surprised. So just to... In addition to the European Union, you have opened the Green Deal question here, so you can see that your, through the Vice-President, your Vice-President and the Finance Minister just didn't quite have it in this matter when I put it very cleverly, clearly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. And now the last of this row, or with priority? Really? [[Vice-President Skopeček speaks off the microphone.]] With the facts and Vice-President Jan Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u123	Yes, thank you very much. I'll respond to an honored colleague. Human memory, it's a really complicated, complicated thing. First of all, when he urged the Minister not to speak until in the final word, and you could respond to him, I am very sorry, Mr Juchelka, that you, for example, through the Vice-President, did not appeal to the then Minister of Finance, who was always in the habit, and we could never react to her after that. [[President: Through me.]] So if you're calling on the Minister of Industry to do that, it's a little strange that you've been sitting here for four years, but you haven't really motivated your party colleague to do that. As far as the differences are concerned, it's weird that the pirát is talking, or I'm talking. Well, it's just different opinions from different sides in one coalition. We well remember how the coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD movement worked. If you feel like you were some kind of united government, where there was no other shade of something and an opinion, then I remember quite a bit of a ravine inside your coalition, and that was two political parties. So I suggest you do something about the memory, there are some preparations for it, and it'll work better. And a colleague. As far as starvation is concerned, of course, we can say anything at this speaking desk, we have immunity, but if you really mean it, I say it's a loss of judgment and for me any other, perhaps even legitimate opinions lack any weight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for keeping time. And so now this has brought about another series of factual ones. First up is Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mr králíček's last so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u125	Thank you so much, thank you for the heads-up. Thank you, of course, for the suggestion of some kind of medication, as well as great, in any event I still appeal that there is a five-calice in the government at the moment, so I hope that we will discuss on this point when Minister Síkela also seeks my vote - and I hope so - and also because we did not have the opportunity to study it, that is why the questions are here. That's the second point. And of course, I also hope that Mrs Schillerová's future finance minister, too, will not repeat that she will speak and answer in the final words, but will also discuss the future opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u126	Thank you and now there is room for Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u127	I would also like to respond to Mr Skopeček. In fact, I already got a prescription yesterday for medication or two days ago, and I should have taken some pills, too, so I think the ODS is kind of on a roll, so he's here to order all our pills, but in any case, I just wanted to say it's a non-standard route. You must admit, Mr President, that this law is really going through a jet, an incredible jet, and the Minister is nodding here, thank God that we can at least agree on this. And it is true that, as it was presented, it was presented in a very unstandard way. The deadlines that were there were absolutely no observed, so then you can't be surprised that we're all really asking questions here, and we'd like to know the answers, because once the Minister speaks in the final speech, we won't be able to respond at all to anything, and we can't even have an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u128	Thank you, too. Mr Robert králíček is now next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u129	I would like to respond to my colleague Juchelka and I would like to ask him, Mr Juchelka, please, through Madam President, when you have the medication, recommend it to Mr Skopečka. [[Fun.]] Because he forgot that before the election, they said they were gonna do it differently. Well, that was supposed to be the change, so why are they acting the same way when she's reprimanding the president for acting the way she did? Guess that's where he left off. And maybe there would be medication - I didn't notice in seven months that anyone from the coalition stepped up against his minister, as Mr. Skopeček called on Mr. Juchelka to do in the past four years. Maybe we'll see about that. That'll be the change!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. And now we're going back to the general... This is Chairman Adamec. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u131	I hope I can do it in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still talking about a non-standard presentation of the bill. Of course, we're not used to it, but it's actually in a state of legislative emergency. And really, if it were so that you didn't get those amendments until after second reading here, I would understand the screams. I'm not really saying it was happy. From the point of view of the strategy, I think that those amendments should have been distributed at least to the members of the Economic Committee earlier, I totally agree with that, I am a supporter of that. I had the advantage of having them tonight. I expected some changes this morning, because it really isn't easy. It's really not easy. And when we talk about acting against our own minister, I remember the Civil Aviation Act. Do you remember what I was saying at the counter? It was a bill that came from your government, but it was presented by our Minister Kupka. I couldn't agree with it either, just as they put it, and I threw it at their heads. Let's face it: today you are the opposition, we are the coalition. The next term may be completely different. It's just the way politics works, so let's face it. It's just reality! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u132	I also thank you for the time being and now another factual one, namely Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u133	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm just saying that we don't mind the non-standard course of action. We will support this, of course, this bill, but if we are to support something that is unstandard, we expect that we will be answered by questions when we simply could not study it. That's all. And I have the questions, I raised them, I raised them about three hours ago, I haven't received any answers until now. It's a great, superproposal, a big, energy bill by Minister Síkela, who just doesn't talk here, doesn't respond to us at all, doesn't answer anything, so I don't understand why we meet? So just get a minimum of time in the Ministry or the Economic Committee, but why can't we discuss it here? You pursue my vote, the votes of other Members, and I have no answers to my questions at all, and I cannot extract them from you. And I'm not asking you this, but through me, businessmen and citizens are asking you how it's gonna be. So what happens if the gas stops in a few days? How will this be dealt with in a crisis with entrepreneurs and citizens? I understand that this is in some kind of amendment. How many pages does the amendment have? Times five and the same mattress. You yourselves had to take a break on the Economic Committee. So please answer these questions here at once so that we can respond to them with additional questions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u134	Thank you. We are now going back to the general debate, where Mr Milan Feranec is duly signed up, Mr Róbert Teleky can prepare himself. I'll reload my apologies. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons and President Jakub Michálek today from 15 a.m. to 16.30 a.m. for work reasons. And now, please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will not be long. I'll have one question, two comments and one suggestion. At the beginning of his performance, the minister tested us a little, if we know how much gas cost a year ago. I didn't know. If I need it, I'll find out in about two minutes. For two because I only use my left hand now, so it's more complicated. And I'm going to ask: does the Ministry of Industry know how many households or people are connected to central heat supply or heating are provided by gas boiler rooms owned by SVJ? Answer... You know, that's great, because about a million and a half households, which is about 3.8 million plus minus, I suppose another few hundred thousand may be through the SVJ, and I'm asking because these categories were not at all in the original draft of the Ministry, but at all, and they got there after the intervention of the members of the Economic Committee. Of course, written by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I can see how it's... So I'm just asking, if the original proposal didn't mention 40 to 45 percent of the population of the Czech Republic, what is it? Are the officials incompetent? I don't think so, I think they're working standard. Or did they have a bad assignment or no assignment? I think that's important. Anyway, about the notes. The first thing is, the law creates huge expectations, everyone is waiting for it. But the reality is, if we approve it today and, let's say, I don't know, next week, the Senate and by the end of July, what do people find out? They will find that the government can prepare a regulation where they will finally know who is entitled, to what amount, under what conditions, what they should do. I will look away from the purely legally - the scope of authority given to the government by the House, I do not remember from any other law, because the amendment is actually, who to help, in what way, in what amount. It's all in the government's hands. I really don't remember the House moving its competence to this extent to the government. However, it has, and that is actually what my proposal has to do with it. People need to know how it's going to be as soon as possible. As soon as possible! I would therefore like to propose a resolution by the House, which is basically simple: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's regulation to implement the amendment to the Energy Act, no later than 31. 7. 2022." That is the text of the resolution. Of course, they mean regulations according to paragraphs 11r and 11v. That's what I think these people deserve to know as soon as possible what happens to them, and it's not a gallows deadline. The Minister has been talking about this for two months, so I assume that 14 days, a little more, is enough time for the government to actually accept it, and the citizens will finally see what it will mean for them. I ask for any support in this additional resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. Let me just make sure that you have made a motion for an accompanying resolution? [[Yes.]] It is still appropriate to forward this in writing to the rapporteur. [[It's done.]] Yes, and thank you for your contribution. Mr Róbert Teleky is now on the list, Mr Roman Kubíček can prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u137	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to be factual. I just want to draw attention to one term I miss in this novel, and it's a reference to vulnerability. I don't know if this law is the law of the year, because, of course, we still have a transposition amendment to the Energy Act, a big amendment to the Energy Act. At the outset, the rapporteur, I think, has described the content of the amendments and the course of the negotiations on the Economic Committee, where home boiler rooms, esvéjéčky and large heating are completed in the changers. We know the novel has its benefits. It is a relatively simple procession for the final customer, it is a partial relief of rising costs. But, of course, we know that there are risks. The savings tariff will cover the initial impact of households in terms of growth in energy prices, but it is likely that the support of the state will need to be targeted specifically on a vulnerable layer of customers, whether socially or income. That is why I propose to put a reference to vulnerability into the transposition - perhaps it would be best - of the amendments to the Energy Act. Moreover, this concept is missing in Czech legislation, so the reference to it can subsequently be used in the creation of government regulations. There will be no testing for the cost-effective tariff, it is not a test dose. It is the link to the tariffs according to vulnerability that will enable customers to test the vulnerability by exchanging data between suppliers and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, whether social assistance needs to be further targeted at vulnerable customers and to provide them with specific assistance through the energy voucher which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is entitled to issue. At the same time, a reference to vulnerability will allow people who might not be willing to go to the housing allowance office as a test dose, but through data exchange it will become self-aware that they can target these customers with their help in the form of this energy check. So I believe that the new energy law will be comprehensive, it will be unambiguous, and it will include a reference to vulnerability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u138	Thank you, too, and Mr Roman Kubíček is now duly signed in, Mr Václav Král can prepare himself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be that long. I originally had a lot of questions prepared, but I'm going to ask some of the things that probably escaped during the production, and then I'd like the Minister to focus on it, or answer me how he would deal with it. [[tho]] I was here three months ago in the context of energy aid quoting how individual states do it, and I pointed out a problem that is not solved in the Czech Republic's law at all, and that is what is called the separation of vulnerable households from heat. There are months in those countries, which are November, December, January, February, March, when even though you don't pay advances, you don't pay heat, so you can't be disconnected because of vulnerability, that is, because you might get sick or die. It is necessary to put it into the Czech legal system, because we have not yet fully encountered it, electric energy and heating, the gas was relatively cheap, but it can happen - and I do not wish it to anyone - that it can really get into this trap. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he would prepare or if he has any idea of preparing this law at all. Then the press asked me to replace the gas and started using electricity. [[the following ……]] So I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that it is not possible to replace the gas from the straight-top, because it would not hold the transmission system and, if necessary, we would also be in a capacity situation. Then one more thing that irritated me here today, I also read it somewhere in the paper - somewhere in the paper they wrote about how electricity is produced for 0.45 cents that kilowatt and 0,15. [[Crowns?]] That's not true. CEZ produces electricity around 1.10 because it is the average of all sources that work, and then you have to add distribution and delivery to the customer, network fee and so on and so on. So it's not really gonna work for 0.15 cents, so it's really not. [[Crowns?]] Anyway, I'm gonna put my mind at ease. I know we're not gonna do anything about her right now, but considering the price of electricity in the course of 1. 7. 2020 up to today increased from approximately CZK 1,250 to the current value, which is on the stock exchange CZK 8,748, CZK 8,748, yesterday's date, which it put there, and the growth still looks very dangerous, because the curve is still growing. And it's a question of how far we can go, and whether the support we're going to put on the end customer at all, because we can get to the fact that the support that we're going to approve today, in the process of increasing the next price of gas and electricity, as I said, some companies are already reporting, doesn't have to meet in global. He's the problem with some companies raising backups. These people know it right away, and they work in some form. And I know that in the case of electricity, if necessary, they will be able to ask their supplier to include the support they receive in the monthly payment, so they'll get it straight. It's not like that somewhere. And now the question is, if you pay at least 50 percent of the backup, it's not going to be disconnected, it is. As long as you pay 50 percent of the price, you will not be disconnected, and at the end of the year or at the beginning of the next year you will receive a bill, your invoice will be released and your payment will be due. And that supplement can be overwhelming for some people, because we need to talk about tens of thousands, especially where it's going to be about heating, whether it's gas, whether it's electricity. The estimate for a family house when heating heat, a middle family house up to 200 square meters, is about 120 000 at today's prices, if it is electricity, it is about 100 000. So if you take the compensation you can get, it's about 16,000, so it's actually going to help you by 16 percent of that amount. That's not really much. It's a question of whether or not to put a stop to it. Well, maybe Russia won't open the roosters and we'll meet here again and we'll meet on completely different parameters and completely different things. And here the real danger of gas replacement is great, especially for the production part, because the production part gives wages, makes products, holds our economy, and if it doesn't produce, it doesn't employ people, so it won't run into the register. So I hope we don't get to this scenario. Another thing that's... I'd just go back to the trial. So I met with the Deputys of the Ministry of Industry and Trade last week on Wednesday, where we had already made some basic comments on the original proposal, they worked them up. Unfortunately, we have now received the amendments late. I've been through this in some way, but I haven't gone in deep and I don't have any legal analysis on whether it's perfect, but I hope the Ministry of Industry and Trade and their legislative lawyers can fix that. As for the preparation, my colleague, through Madam President, Berenika Peštová said that in the global, you got it yesterday, it was not quite as it was presented to the Economic Committee. And I thank the President, through Madam President, Ivan Adamc, for allowing at least half an hour to study the amendments. So it's a little inadequate, because we'd think we'd need a lot more of that time. We understand the situation, we support it, there have been many questions, and I will be very grateful to the Minister if he answers them and opens up the debate to satisfy Mr Juchelka and to satisfy myself and others who have asked. I don't want to delay it any longer, so we can leave some room for a professional discussion. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u140	Thank you and it is now the last one entered in the general debate, Mr Václav Král. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to today's debate. There's a lot to say here, and what to say is almost a conclusion. If I skip some of the areas that we've already opened up here, I have to say for myself that I've been trying to suppress my economic education for weeks because I didn't understand how money being thrown out of a helicopter will help combat inflation. But I guess it just doesn't belong here, that's over. The government simply chose this way to support households in situations where energy prices do what they do. The fact that this is an extraordinary contribution, that we have probably already resigned to the fact that it is an austerity tariff, that we tend to resort to a kind of flat-rate support, I think it is quite obvious, but the previous speakers were right, who said that we would actually see it in the government's regulation, how it would all turn out. [[16.10 hours]] I think we need to skip the process that preceded the whole preparation of the law, the amendments. I will not be here to comment on the three days, because neither the Chamber of Commerce nor the Confederation of Industry were invited to do this at the beginning, but perhaps the results of the work may be quick, but hopefully it will be as valid as possible, and we have to deal with it in some way today. However, I will try to bring into this discussion perhaps some new moments that we have not touched completely here, and when I return to the beginning, as the Minister has begun to introduce this law here, I think without realizing that we simply cannot move beyond the situation in which we are living today, the Russian Federation and Vladimír Putin, so without this confession, we simply will not move forward. When you look, energy prices, both electricity and natural gas, grew long before Russia's aggression, and this war situation only accelerated the growth. The current situation is given only and only by the political decision of the Czech Republic, the countries of the European Union, by virtue of the leadership of the European Union, and I think that at this level lies the key to the solution. Today's meeting is, I think, a wasted opportunity. It is a wasted opportunity for us to present a truly comprehensive solution and a comprehensive package that - as has been announced - will tell us where we will be in five years, where we will be in ten years. However, I understand that the process is complex and the outcome leads to a thorny path. But if we don't realize the balance that we have here, that means what fuels are and what consumption we have, then I think there's another confession that we have to make here, and I'm not afraid to do it for myself publicly. I can't speak for the clubs, political party clubs, like my previous speakers. I think we need to realise that without the use of coal and natural gas, we just can't handle the situation. And that's where I think there's another key to the solution at this point. And why the missed opportunity? Well, since I thought that under the austerity tariffs here we could produce a much wider regulation both the Air Protection Act, the Mining Act, the Construction Act and so on, because for example, there is another thing to be admitted here that we will not simply build a new nuclear source within the next 20 years, we will not build new pipelines within five or six years, we will not build even reasonable waterways or ensure the development of renewable resources. And speaking of developing renewables, we need to figure out what kind of situation we're dealing with, what we're dealing with here, what we're dealing with with with this package. Do we want to address prices, availability of energy or self-sufficiency? For example, by developing renewable sources, we will be in a situation where energy prices will increase even more, this time not at the price of power energy, but undoubtedly a part of distribution will increase, as we are seeing in Germany. So it's kind of a vicious circle, and I'm looking forward to the Minister's answers as we chop it up. Maybe I'll give him a little hint that I'm not so skeptical and highlight what the government is doing here, so aside from trying to diversify natural gas sources - perhaps I won't tell him some sweet secret, I think it's already in the media from today - preparing for some kind of restructuring of ČEZ, today the Prime Minister has already said so publicly. We have another good job of this novel, which means, that's the emergency prevention situation. I hope that the regulation of Decree 344 of 2012 will follow very quickly, which is a decree on an emergency in gas, which does not yet remember the long-term blackouts, but only the short-term ones. I know that - I suspect last week - a working group gathered at the MIT to do this, and I firmly believe that, in time, an amendment to this decree will be submitted to the professional public, as well as to the decree concerning air protection, when - once again, the Minister suggested it at the outset - it is necessary to consider whether we can still keep some coal resources alive in order to save natural gas for another purpose in reducing the consumption of natural gas. That is what I think needs to be said here, too, in this context, and it is no longer a secret. The decree is being prepared and contributed to this two months ago to the resolution of both the Economic Committee and the Committee on the Environment. I think that, as I may have started a little skeptical, that this is an optimistic conclusion, but I cannot accept one thing that has been said and said here on the Economic Committee. It is a matter that arose sometime at noon yesterday, when such a mischief was pushed into the amendments, when the amendment, which actually talks about the support of customers who are also removing heat from CZK, when it has already been forgotten before the 14 days or three weeks, now this amendment should have caught up with this and put it to the same level as customers who produce heat from gas or from electricity. Unfortunately, there is a wording that, in the event that it is possible to arrange a notification on the transformational support of heat plants, so that these heat consumers will lose the contribution, or the austerity tariff, which is an absolute misunderstand of the situation. Transformation aid was intended to reduce discrimination against consumers who honestly pay emission allowances in heat taken from heat plants and high-efficiency heat supply systems, and I do not understand why they should be discriminated against in such a way that they do not receive the contribution. I think that this wording, which actually arose there yesterday at noon, goes against the fundamental principle of the amendment. I have proposed today to the Economic Committee to correct this, I have failed, so I will not suggest it here, but I hope that these arguments will be taken into account in the preparation of the Government's regulation, or any further steps that the Government will take. In conclusion, I would just like to point out here that the reason why the transformation support has not been notified is in no way that the so-called unbundling is not in the heating industry. The reason is that, as we may not understand each other here within the Czech Republic, what transformational support is, what is actually austerity tariffs, so that we cannot explain it to our colleagues in Brussels. So there I would appeal to the Ministry of Industry and Trade to improve, but with one breath I add that I know that it is already going well and that the Prime Minister is also trying to help in this matter. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry I kept you here a few minutes longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u142	Thank you. I no longer see any application in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. The Minister is reporting, very well, so we are opening a general debate. Minister. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although I am a bit of a vain person, I will not respond to the invectives that have been heard here, especially from opposition Members, but also partly from the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Teplárna České Budějovice, Mr Král. [[16.20 hours]] I will not even respond to the obvious ignorance of the issue, although I could, because I will stick to the fact that this is not an interpelation today, that this is a legislative debate, and I will stick to what has been going on since morning, that we are all concerned about the interest of citizens and the economy of this country. We are simply clearly different in how best to represent and defend these interests. This means I will try to answer the specific questions that have been raised. I will not respond to the notes of the type of exit from the stock exchange and so on or to the question of what is inflation, what is upside-down. I'm not going to discuss what core inflation looks like right now. However, I will comment on what has been said here and on what makes us different and on the specific questions. I respect that many of you call this proposal a pasquil and that my expertise and competence are probably not convincing enough for many of you. I am comforted that in the past, they were sufficiently convincing for the US regulator, Hong Kong, London, the European Central Bank, regulators in a number of European Union countries, as well as for the governments of a number of countries. I admit that, based on what I heard here today from some of the contributions, some kind of economic erudition didn't sound too much, so I'm just not gonna comment on that. Little or too much, that's something we're different about. The opposition says we're helping little. We think we're helping adequately because we're in what we're proposing... Here were the specific amounts - 66 billion, 27 billion for households under gas and electricity tariffs, 3.6 billion for households that heat the boiler within the common house and up to 10 billion for the support of customers in central heating or together for transformational support into heating. Of course, we must very well consider the social dimension and fiscal responsibility. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am Minister of Industry and Trade and that I have prepared a legislative instrument that will enable the Czech Government to respond flexibly to the situation as it develops further. The amounts that have been said and spoken repeatedly and the calculation of individual tariffs have long since appeared on the pages of the STAN movement, as well as on the pages of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as well as in a number of periodicals. So saying that no one knows what was actually promised to those clients is at least misleading. I consider these amounts to be the amounts that are promised and which, from my point of view, are the minimum ones at the moment. That's the first comment. Then there's the question of timing. Yes, we have been following individual steps since the beginning, as some governments do, and forgiveness for renewables is no art. Yes, it is a thing that many governments have done before we have, but many governments have taken some steps at a time when it was not needed, and now they are returning the system, when clients are exposing even more shock. This means that we come up with this measure now. We come up with him completely targeted because we consider it the most appropriate moment when we could come up with it, which still allows us to react further in the future. As far as these amendments are concerned, I want to apologize this way to all those who have been exposed to this discomfort. I confess that I have spent the last two days, Tuesday morning until late last night, in Brussels, because I am actually running three and a half ministerial councils, so I have presented and defended the priorities of the Czech Presidency in three committees of the European Parliament and I have not followed technically how the amendments are being followed, at what time and where they are moving. That means if it's too late for my team to deliver, I'm sorry. The information I had was such that they were kept under constant consultation with certain members of the Economic Committee. There's been a lot of questions here about how it's gonna go down with the gas, how it's gonna actually handle those magazines, what kind of bins it belongs to, who it belongs to. It was one of the things that has been said repeatedly here, so let me explain briefly at least. Since the beginning of our term of office, we have tried to respond as quickly as possible to change the geopolitical situation not only in Europe but also in the world and to start strengthening the energy security of the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. In some energy sources, such as electricity, we have the advantage that we are actually self-sufficient and that we are supplying electricity to some countries that have reduced energy exports yesterday or today. That means we have the advantage of being able to supply some of our neighbors with electricity. This is, of course, not a case in the field of fuel and gas. Here we have tried primarily from the outset to focus on, no matter how the situation develops, so that we can be as secure as possible for the situation if there is a drop in supply or a stop in supply. We have adopted a number of legislative measures, the last part of which comes also within the framework of the amendment. I'll get to it. Thanks to these measures, without being infrastructure owners, we have managed to buy gas into state material reserves. I'm gonna make a little turn here. Someone's talking about Germany buying for four euros. I don't know, I'd like to see the contract, because if it's true, it's something I find almost unrealistic. We were shopping at the most appropriate moment that was available on the market at the time. We bought slightly below the market price before the merchants bought. Part of the price is, of course, the rental of capacity in the magazine and the fee for its storage, which is a market fee. [[16.30 hours]] Despite the significant decline in supplies to Europe, these deliveries are probably not even 30 percent of the original state today, we are still able to fill the stacks, we have pushed into the stack even in recent days relatively interesting volumes. And the other thing that we succeeded in is that this one magazine, Dambořice, which together owns KKCG and Gazprom, which has a volume of 425 million ccs, of which 405 million is leased to Gazprom, which was almost empty a while ago, so in cooperation with ČEZ we managed to push 75 million ccs into this magazine, which is close to 20 percent of the capacity. And as long as we can, we're gonna keep filling those clips, because we're starting to think that the more gas we have in our storage tanks before the heat season, the more comfortable we're gonna be. Another thing that we have done - and I am sorry, but I just come from an environment where when you agree with the counterparty that you will not communicate or you will communicate together, so I am not running right behind the journalists to do some positive points, but I am simply following these agreements - at the moment it has been communicated that the Czech Republic has rented in a prepared floating reservoir in cooperation with ČEZ - in a floating terminal, not a magazine, I repeat, it is not a magazine, it is a terminal - on the coast of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Eems from Gasunie, which is the same company that, for example, prepares a fixed stack for the German Federal Republic in Brunsbüttel, so we rented 3 billion cubicles there, which is roughly a third of the consumption of the Czech Republic before savings. [[Eemshaven?]] Of course, at this point, we're working on buying the appropriate amount of liquefied gas, which we can then bring to this terminal, heat it up, put it into the gaseous state, and either replace it, or send it to the pipes on the way to us, and of course we're also dealing with the question of, if that gas is ours, getting to us. Of course, the second thing is that we are also dealing with this issue within the common platform, the purchasing platform within the European Union, which will also include Czech representation, we are in the working group and we are very intensively involved in how it will work, and I am concerned that it is not a technical outage, but that it is purely an escalation of an unproclaimed energy war - and why I say unproclaimed: we have always properly announced our sanctions, that they will be limited in some way by the supply of gas under various technical fronts, no one has said: We will not supply gas to you, it has been said: Technical maintenance and so on, various reasons, so I call it an unproclaimed war. I am in my new role in this case, which means the President of the Energy Council, convened an extraordinary Council of Ministers for Energy on 26 July to Brussels, which is five days after the restoration of Nord Stream 1, and if the operation is not renewed or only partially restored, then the things we are now legislatively preparing will either be brought to life or we will discuss how we will proceed further in this situation. So much for the gas, and now briefly for some of those amendments. I would probably touch on the emergency situation that I consider to be very important, and I am aware that the amendment came at the last moment, but it is actually an immediate response to the fact that the gas shortage situation can come before the heat season. And I'm putting him in a category that I call an airbag. You've got it in your car, you're gonna pay for it, and you're hoping you'll never have to use it, but if you need it once or twice in your life, you're happy to have it there. This measure will allow the Ministry of Industry and Trade to announce a new emergency situation in the gas sector. It will complete the current decree on the basis that NET4GAS is only to decide on the announcement of individual regulatory stages. At a time of emergency, the Ministry will be authorised to issue individual decisions through which it will be able to decide on exemptions from legal obligations. The State will thus gain greater powers to focus gas supply on selected segments of industry or services, as well as on the use of gas reservoirs for this purpose. Why does something like this need to be done? The current decree is intended for a short-term gas outage, which means a blackout caused by some kind of disaster or technological outage or some kind of local malfunction. It is actually a table according to which the gas supply is being reduced mechanically. But in the current energy war, the table and mechanical procedure are not enough. In order to better defend ourselves, we will have to choose a more subtle, concrete approach, which means, for example, that we would not like to shut down the whole sector at once, and, on the contrary, we want to keep the industry running as long as possible, at least in a limited regime, or at least in a critical part of it. Let me give you an example. We prefer only to partially limit deliveries to some businesses in order to avoid total shut-down. This means that if, for example, we follow the current adjustment, we shut down, we reduce the gas supply by actually stopping the whole operation. This way we will need to keep two partial races running and only one of them will shut down. There will also be a fine reduction in household supplies so that we can afford to keep parts of the industry in operation. I want to stress the word "fine" again. We are not planning, and we hope that we will not have to take any dramatic courses. Russia's energy war is very cleverly waged, and therefore our process must be smart and flexible. We have roughly calculated what impact it would have on the gas consumption that restricts supply. We also have calculated what savings we need to make from alternative countries, and we would then model everything accordingly so that the gas lasts long enough. I want to repeat that it's an airbag that we want to start at the right time. The current situation does not yet require us to approach the announcement of individual regulatory stages, on the contrary it would be counterproductive, because, for example, it would not be possible to exchange or borrow gas between individual entities. I have already expressed my views on the stock market situation, and what I would like to say is that the next amendment was to clarify the model use it or lose it, because there was a risk that the strict application of the text of energy legislation might make it unclear whether or not natural or legal persons belonging to foreign entities belong to the gas market participants. And that's why we proposed an adjustment when we define exactly who is a party to the gas market. [[16.40 hours]] When it comes to heat plants and the transformational aid, the aim, of course, is for the final support to be felt by the final customer, household, family. Transformation aid was loaded with an amendment at the end of last year before I took over the management of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. According to the information I have, the following text, which was subsequently sent to the European Commission for approval, also contributed to the entities concerned by the transformation aid. I got the whole thing in a situation where it was said that we couldn't explain to Brusel the meaning of the transformational support. I think that I am both linguistically and professionally equipped to explain the meaning of the transformational support. My conclusion is that, as it has been formulated, it is non-notifiable, but that it is possible to negotiate with the European Commission any change that may - and I do not want to make any promises - I am always very modest in my promises - which may perhaps pass through. However, the transformation aid will not reach non-EU ETS heating plants. So it is necessary to be able to help small heat plants in the law, and that is part of the novel. Therefore, a solution for customers was added. And of course, if there's no transition support, the notification, we're gonna have to help the final customers in some way, and we're gonna do that. Overall, we have 10 billion earmarked to support heat and households that are connected to central heat supplies, and we want to divide these 10 billion according to the results of negotiations with the European Commission into transformational support in exchange for taking the transformation aid into account. And that's how I was informed that there were deals. It will be taken into account at final prices for customers and partly for direct assistance. When it comes to gas boiler rooms, we were once again aware from the beginning that we had to solve the gas boiler rooms, only we were unable to find a technical solution. Even before we sent or actually managed to find technical solutions and agreements, we therefore chose the path of the amendment. We originally thought we'd approve what was ready so far. We'll get back to those gas boiler houses as soon as we can find a technical solution. Fortunately, we have managed to find the technical solution before and to contribute to the cost-effective tariff according to this adjustment, which we are going to approve, will also be achieved by the operators that have the heating provided from the home boiler rooms. This contribution will be intended for entities which have concluded contracts for the supply of energy to these boiler rooms, i.e. the community of owners of units or housing cooperatives, or other entities. Those entities will be obliged to provide information on the number of housing units to the distribution system operator in whose system their demand points are connected when receiving the tariff contribution. The distributor then forwards this information to the market operator and the traders and the contribution is further calculated into individual flats under the existing law and will be counted as an exceptional advance on services. And once again, a specific amount will be determined by the government by regulation, but in advance we say that we have allocated CZK 3.6 billion provisionally to this aid. I hope I covered the most important part of the questions. In general, I don't want to comment on some parts of today's debate because I always think of Lawrenc Kohlberg and his Theory of Moral Development, and let each of us read about it, about his three levels and six stages of morality. He says only a few people get to the fifth and sixth. He says that each person, based on his cognitive development, must gradually pass through the different stages of morality. He says most people can't get any further than the fourth. I sometimes felt from today's discussion that some of them wouldn't even make it to the fourth one. Thank you for your attention, and I believe that the promises that we have... that have been made here, that even if you called it a very vile thing, the whole bill, so that it will find support in the House, so that they will be respected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u144	Thank you, Minister. We are still in the general debate and Mrs Berenika Peštová has actually signed up. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u145	Thank you, Minister, for answering a lot of questions that have been raised, but I still have additional questions. I wanted to ask: The notification was filed, or did you serve when? End of the year or...? Are you sure you're gonna answer my mic when the notification was or when do you expect to receive the notification? I think it's usually about six months to a year, just the way you're doing with the notification. And my question was, because I wanted to make sure that it was really going to happen to the last customer, so when you said that if you didn't get the notification, you had to sort of, sort of, say, advise the final customer to get it, I want to see what the solutions were, sort of, like, like, you said, if you'd be kind enough to tell me. And otherwise, I'm abstaining from commenting on who's grown up or hasn't reached some stage. I think I've had a substantive discussion here. And I thought I was asking questions that I'm sure you have answers to, or if you don't, you're gonna get texted or something. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for keeping time. If the Minister wants to do so, he has to do so. And since we have another line of facts - yes, he applied before. Please, you'll have two minutes too, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u147	I, my colleague, wasn't thinking about you at all. I've been thinking about some of the parts of the debate that weren't about the austerity tariff and what's happening today. On the contrary, I thank you for your support in the Economic Committee and, in fact, for the fact that all your questions were very substantive. And as for the notification. We are here notification, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade - I sometimes tend to say we - sent the information immediately after the amendment, as it was adopted here, that is, at the end of last year. It means that it is already there - I just want to point out that it is a novel that has been under discussion since 2018, I have been looking specifically at eKLEP - that means that it is something that is already being discussed in the third, maybe even close to the fourth year. At this point, it is really the fact that the European Commission wanted to reject the proposal in the form that was put forward. I think that, especially after the Prime Minister's intervention and mine, i.e. within the Energy Commission, and direct communication with both the Commissioner and the Director General, the process has been suspended so far. And I'll admit that at this point, it's at my personal meeting, but it won't be possible to do it for two or three weeks at the earliest because of the absence of the opponent. [[16.50 hours]] And as for the other question, that means, we were really waiting for that last moment, if we don't find a deal after all, so that we know what amount and how much the commission will be able to recognise and the rest, sorry... [[Your time!]] [[Your time!]] [[I'm sorry, please sign in...]] But the goal is to really support those customers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u148	I'm very sorry, please sign in, Minister, on second thought, because we have another logged in. I have to measure them all the same. Please, Mr Juchelka, who is registered for his two minutes. And, of course, we still have a general debate open, so we can continue to have that debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u149	I'll be very brief, it won't be two minutes. Thank you so much for the answers I received in part from your speech. So on October 1st, it should somehow come up with the help for all the citizens, the payments. You said in your opening speech, and I quote, "I hope he gets help before the end of the heating season." Is there a buried dog in it? So if you can guarantee that from October 1st, there will be a way, or you understand me, because you scared me a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u150	Thank you and I assume that the Minister is applying classicly with priority rights without a time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u151	Sometimes I get to say things, too, so I'm sorry about that. Of course, what we said in the beginning is true. In the form that is now presented, within those sums, as they were said, this is to start to apply from 1. 10. and it will apply after the heat season, of course, because it is a flexible instrument that allows the government to react further if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u152	Thank you and one more factual one, namely Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u153	If you don't mind me asking, Minister, if you could finish this, because we were talking about the possible options, in case it didn't work out, and you didn't get the notification, how do the end customers get it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u154	Thank you, too. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u155	I'm sorry I missed it. The idea -- it's actually part of the proposal -- is that customers get about the same amount as if they were connected to a common boiler or had their own. So this is the idea we have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u156	Thank you and now I look around the hall again and I really do not see any application for the general debate anymore. I will make sure once again after the previous one, and indeed, therefore, I am ending the general debate. Will I ask whether there is an interest in the final word now after this debate? I am not interested now in the general word of the Minister or the rapporteur, nor have there been any voting proposals. So I am opening up the debate in detail and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Before anybody may sign up for a detailed debate - I see the Vice-President - I will also apologize for the apology received, namely that the Minister for Legislation, Michal Šalomoun, today from 17.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, apologize to Mr Michal Kučera from 15.50 to the end of the day for working reasons, apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská today between 16.15 and the end of the day for working reasons and extends his apology to Mr Jakub Michálek today from 16.30 to 17 hours for working reasons. That would settle the apology so far. So I can pass the floor on to Vice-President Karel Havlíček in a detailed debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u157	Thank you again. I am signing up for the amendment, House Document No 1049, and it is my amendment to the Government proposal and so on about the terms of the business that concerns the price ceiling. I'm referring to a possible price cap. What are we up to? We want to introduce the possibility of declaring the state of the energy crisis, which would be declared by the Energy Regulatory Authority, as a result of which the MIT could start to set electricity prices. It doesn't mean he's gonna do it, it's about how he can use it. In other words, it is an opportunity to take advantage of the price ceiling. The reasoning is clear. The Ministry of Industry will have this option newly, because the price for energy transmission and distribution is now regulated, with the aim of the amendment also allowing the price of the commodity to be regulated itself. It is therefore being implemented, as I have already said, a state of energy crisis. This is defined in the socio-economic threat to a substantial part of the customers, due to sharply rising energy prices. The state of the energy crisis would be declared by the Energy Regulatory Authority, and during this state the normal regulation of energy prices will not apply, but the Ministry of Industry and Trade should be able to regulate prices as needed. I believe that this is a practical proposal that can be applied in the same way that they apply in other countries where they have already been set up, and I believe that all other countries will apply gradually as well, respectively, to the ceiling. Once again, if we don't use it, it won't use it, but the government will have that option, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, to put the price on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u158	I also thank you for bringing or signing up to the amendment, and I ask whether anyone else is interested in speaking in this detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. And I'll ask again, for the sake of order, whether there is interest in the final words? I don't see the Minister's interest, nor the rapporteur's. Once again, we have nothing to vote for and I can end the second reading of this proposal. Now it is the House's decision whether we will proceed immediately, because it may follow the third reading, and the rapporteur is reporting to propose, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u159	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Ministers, Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I recommend that we proceed immediately, because it is more or less very simple. We have here five amendments that came from the Economic Committee, which I think we can even vote en bloc, because there was no other opinion in the Economic Committee, nor did I hear it during the general debate here at the House plenary. Then we have the proposal from Vice-President Havlíček, who we can also vote on, made it very clear, there is nothing to it. Then the bill as a whole and then the accompanying resolution that Mr Feranec has given here. So I don't think we need to interrupt that we can vote now, and I even think that there is no need for the amendment proposed by Vice-President Havlíček to multiply for the House. If you agree to this, I propose this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u160	Thank you for presenting a clear proposal for the procedure, and if there is no contradiction - we can proceed to the third reading of this proposal, because according to § 99 para. 7 The Act on Rules of Procedure may be followed by a third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second. So, as I said, I'm initiating a third reading of the government bill. I expect, of course, that the rapporteur, Mr Ivan Adamec, will follow the debate with me from the rapporteur's table, and I am opening it with this. So is the debate at third reading open if there is an interest? I do not see any application, or I am ending this debate. Again, I wonder if there's an interest in the final word? Mr. Secretary, are you interested? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u161	I would just like to ask: I see the amendments that have been made here, how, therefore, the proposal for price reduction - I just want to point out that, in general, this belongs to the competence of the regulatory authority or the Ministry of Finance, so I personally do not support this proposal in this form. And as far as the commitment is concerned, the government will issue a definitive measure by 30. 7., once again, I think I would allow the government flexibility so that it can react flexibly to any further developments. Between 30. 7. and 1. 10. can happen on the market and in that situation still a number of things. I think that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has sufficiently communicated how individual amounts will be allocated and how individual tariffs will look for citizens and households, in order to find out how much support it will be, I think that is sufficient. And so I would have dated 30. 7. at this time, he did not bind the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u162	Thank you. I will also ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word? Now he doesn't. I'm gonna read one more apology. Minister Ivan Bartoš apologizes from the meeting of today's meeting from 18:00 to the end of the meeting for family reasons. As for the procedure, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Ivan Adamec, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u163	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I've already said it here, I'll repeat it. First we would vote on the amendments of the economic committee en bloc, then we would vote on the amendment of our fellow Vice-President Havlíček, then we would vote on the proposal as a whole, and as a final vote on the accompanying resolution of Mr Feranc. That's all on my side at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u164	Thank you. Zagonguji, I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. I'll ask if there's a counterclaim for a procedure? I don't think there's any conflict with the procedure. [[Checkout request.]] Yes, I'll check everyone out. Please log in again with your registration cards. So we would first agree to the proposed procedure. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposed procedure. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? In voting number 6, 112 Members voted in favour of 112, against 0. The procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u165	We will now vote on the amendments under numbers 1 to 5 of the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u166	Initiating vote. Who is in favour of these amendments? Who's against it? In the vote number 7, 115 Members and Members were enrolled, for they were 115, against 0. These proposals have been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u167	Just a little something, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u168	Yes, an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u169	If there is a need for an opinion here, because the opinions have already fallen on the Economic Committee, if it is necessary to repeat it here - an opinion on the amendments to the Economic Committee? I'm not sure that's why I'm opening this place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u170	No need. No need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u171	Very good, thank you. So, next, we will vote on the proposal of a fellow Vice-President Havlíček. The committee has not delivered an opinion here because we have not discussed this on the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u172	That's right. And now there is room for the Minister's opinion on this amendment. There's a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u173	I have already said that I recommend not to accept this proposal because there might be a competence dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u174	Disagreeable. [[The rapporteur repeats: Inconvenient.]] I can therefore begin the vote. Who is in favour of this amendment? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 8, 115 Members and Members were enrolled, for they were 50, against 58. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. And if I am not mistaken, we have now dealt with all the amendments. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Thank you. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, according to House Press 259, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started the vote. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 9, 115 Members voted in favour of 115, against 0. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u175	We still have Mr Feranc's accompanying resolution. I will read it to you again, so that we know what we will vote on: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to approve the Government's regulation to implement the amendment to the Energy Act, no later than 31. 7. 2022." The Committee's opinion is not because it was read in plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u176	Yes. The Minister has spoken before. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this accompanying resolution? Who's against it? In voting number 10, 115 Members voted in favour of 50, against 3. I note that this motion for an accompanying resolution has not been approved. I thank the rapporteur for guiding us through the procedure. Mr Radek Vondráček is now in favour of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u177	Thank you. For the screen recording - for the vote number 6, that was the procedure, I voted in favour, I failed to register for the voting device. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u178	Thank you. And now for President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u179	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I propose - even after discussing with the representatives of the coalition - that this meeting be adjourned until discussion in the Grémium.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-001-001.u180	Thank you, so this is a procedural proposal. Since I perceive that there is a consensus on this, we can therefore interrupt this meeting until a meeting is held in the Grémium, unless there is an objection to this procedure. Since there is no objection, I am interrupting this meeting and reminding you that we will meet here on Wednesday 20 July at 9 pm when we will continue the suspended 29th meeting. Have a quiet evening.
