ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 67/2013 Coll., which regulates certain questions relating to the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential spaces in the house with apartments, as amended /house print 1929/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitisation and the Minister for Local Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state here the Government's proposal for a law amending Act No. 67/2013 Sb., which regulates certain questions related to filling or related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in the house with apartments, as amended. For the sake of simplicity, I will continue to talk about the law as a 67/2013 Sb. and the service bill. The submitted amendment was prepared at the initiative of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is a gesture of transposition 2018/2002, which amends the European Energy Efficiency Directive. It's one of the rests that we have left here from a long time ago, not this government. The deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired on 25 October 2020 and the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic, which were, however, terminated on 15 July of this year following the discussion of this proposed amendment at first reading and in anticipation of its close acceptance at second and third reading. It is therefore a moment when, in the context of this law, we have turned to the Commission that the law is already under discussion, the transposition is being discussed, and the infringement proceedings are now being terminated. However, as in the case of the Transposition Act on Low Emission Vehicles, the European Commission follows this development by adopting a transposition proposal. If we delay it further, it is ready to reopen the proceedings against the Czech Republic. If the Czech Republic does not transpose this directive, there is, in the end, a financial penalty which, on a proposal from the European Commission, could then be imposed on us by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Now to the proposal of the amendment itself. In view of the general debate in the House plenary, I think it is necessary to emphasise that this proposal is not intended to impose obligations on the installation of remote-deductible meters in a house with flats - this has been misinterpreted several times. The obligation is already given from 1 January in 2022. It is laid down in Article 7 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11 of Law No. 46 Collections, on energy management, and it is fully in the gesture of the MIT. [[right 406/2000 Coll.]] The law says - but it's not this material - that basically when installing new gauges, gauges are to be installed that allow remote reading. There is a kind of cycle of exchange or service life of the gauges, so in a gradual start-up eventually on some day these gauges will all be remotely deductible. However, this material and this transposition concern only such installed meters, there is no new obligation. The most important proposed changes required by the transposition are three: the obligation to provide monthly information on consumption, the obligation to provide billing and information on consumption by energy service providers and then the explicit determination of the consequences of billing defects on the maturity of the default. Perhaps the most discussed provision of the proposal is precisely the provision setting out the obligation for monthly information on consumption. Where remotely deductible meters are already installed in the house to detect heat and hot water consumption, the service provider, typically SVJ, housing cooperative or other owner of the house, shall provide the recipients of the services, typically to owners or tenants, information on the consumption of heat and hot water at least once a month. For the sake of completeness, I note that these are cases where heat or hot water are prepared together in the house, for example in the common boiler room, or delivered to the house by means of a remote pipe from the heating plant. And to determine whether a service provider actually has that obligation, it is precisely the definition of a remote-deductible meter that is essential. Why do I say that? We have also discovered an anomaly as part of this transposition - I have always thought that a remote meter should be one that I don't have to go into the hallway to look at, which I don't have to access with a beeper for a few centimeters, but which I can actually remotely subtract, either via the Internet or from some distance where I don't have to drive around individual houses. It wasn't like that. The definition, which was different in the MIT law, defined the remote-deductible gauge only by its mere existence outside the housing unit or establishment, standardly in the house in the hallway. I would therefore like to express my support for Mr Havránek's amendment, which is also the rapporteur, who proposes a change in the definition of a remotely deductible meter in the newly supplemented section 2 paragraph. 2 to 4 of the Services Act. This change will result in service providers who would have to provide errands or automobiles, the so-called drive-by meter readings, avoiding high costs of these deductions, and the MIT also agreed to this change in the definition of remotely deductible gauges in § 7 para. The 12 Energy Act is not a problem. In fact, this will bring the two definitive provisions into line and, at the same time, the purpose of the directive being transposed will be fulfilled. Therefore, I also support this amendment by my colleague, Mr Havránek, as the petitioner for the Government Bill. So this is also changing in, say, a rather weird definition that concerned what it is, a remote-deductible gauge, so that it is the same in the regime that it really isn't a gauge to which I have to provide an errand or automobile reading and so on. The second transposition change is the obligation of the service provider to, at the request of the service recipient, provide the energy service provider under the Energy Management Act with the statement of the service recipient and information on its consumption over the last three years if available. In particular, there is a need to explain who is the provider of energy services. This is the case for persons who generally provide for a reduction in energy consumption or an increase in energy efficiency for others. And the third change in the proposed material is the explicit determination of the consequences of the defects of the billing for the maturity of the non-payment for services in § 7 para. 3. If the billing defect does not affect the calculated amount of the default, the bill shall become due. The aim is to prevent the maturity of the default actually from hindering the introduction of the maiden name of the woman who married during the settlement period, changed her surname and so on. Moreover, the information to be included in the bill, which is unrelated to the calculated amount of the default, has been substantially extended by the transposition amendment to the implementing decree. I have already spoken about the amendments made by Mr Havránek, proposing an adjustment to the definition of a remotely deductible gauge. I would now like to comment on the other amendments that have been tabled. On the proposal by Mrs Dostálová, who proposes, in particular, that service providers should not have to inform service providers of the disclosure of information about their consumption on the Internet every month, I take a neutral position as the petitioner of the government proposal. The Ministry of Regional Development is aware that in the legal systems of most EU Member States, there is no explicit obligation to send the monthly notification that the information has been made available, for example, under a password on a website, that information on consumption. In the event that there is no explicit obligation to inform the recipient of the services each month of making available information on its consumption, the Ministry of Regional Development is prepared to methodically encourage providers to inform the recipients of the services in a reasonable manner at reasonable intervals, so that the objectives of the directive are met and that the institutions of the European Union do not doubt the proper implementation of European law. [[18.00 hours]] I would just like to say an interesting thing about it, which is quite important. We were also based on the recommendation of the European Commission on how to implement this law or this transposition, and then on the committee with our colleague Havránek and representatives of the Ministry for Regional Development decided to conduct a search between 14 EU countries, whether this obligation of active information - you will find it there and there - every month it is implemented there, and the ratio came out of the fourteen about 80 or perhaps 90 percent of the implementation. So on the one hand - and therefore my position is neutral - on the one hand, there is a recommendation on how to implement, but then we also looked at comparable countries, and in most of the 14 countries examined, this was not extensively implemented. Mr Havránek's amendment proposing to amend the wording of Section 8 of the Services Act, as I mentioned, has the full support of the petitioner; this amendment would prevent dishonest conduct by the recipients of services, which may harm not only the service provider but also the honest recipients of services. On the contrary, I cannot support his proposal to postpone the obligation of the service provider to inform the recipient of the service of its consumption at least every month. As I have already said, the transposition period has already expired on 25 October 2020 and this monthly information on consumption should have been implemented in the EU Member States since 1 January 2022. It is therefore clearly contrary to EU law, further to the introduction of this obligation to delay. If this amendment was adopted, the Czech Republic would be exposed to the risk of infringement and subsequent imposition of a fine by the Court of Justice of the European Union. I will also also mention that by adjusting the definition of remotely deductible gauges with a range of subjects - and I was talking with representatives of SVJ, with providers of accommodation services as well as with those who ensure the distribution of heat and hot water, but in particular with those subject to the obligation to provide monthly information on consumption - and this will be significantly, significantly narrowed down by those for whom this obligation represented the highest costs. It's just the definition of what a remote-deductible gauge is. The Government's amendment to the Services Act and most of the amendments mentioned were discussed on 30 August 2022 in the Sub-Committee on Housing Policy and Construction and subsequently on 1 September 2022 in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u3	I thank you, just to remind you that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 199/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jiří Havránek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u4	Thank you for the word. Good evening to all of you, colleagues. Many have already been said by the Minister, I will just add that at the meeting of the first subcommittee on housing policy, the discussion of this press took place essentially twice, once at such a seminar with representatives of the rental housing market, then at the standard meeting of the subcommittee which took place at the end of the holidays The first reading here in the Chamber of Deputies was made at the beginning of holiday 7. 7. and with regard to the subsequent negotiations in committee, this took place 1. 9. We have therefore fulfilled the deadline for committee discussions for 50 days, as approved by the House here. With regard to the various amendments that have been discussed by the Committee on Public Administration, I would really like to thank the Ministry, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum, because these amendments really arose after a discussion with individual players on the market and, indeed, within all the political parties, so that we really believe in sharpening the edge of the directive. And actually, one more amendment - or one of those I will report to today in the subsequent debates - is basically the completion of the homework that we have had with the Minister, and they have actually gone through - how individual countries have implemented the so-called obligation to inform them that I should be informed. As for the other amendments that we will find in the House system, I will then comment on them in the next debates, and I will sign up to them. These are the amendments by Klára Dostálová and Jiří Havránek, you will find them under number 1174, and then two of my amendments, 1308 and 1309, which comment in detail afterwards. Now, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby open a general debate to which Mrs Eva Fialová has signed up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u6	Good evening. Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. I will respond a little to the Minister's word here, which has provided information on one month's information, and I would like to appeal to everyone to support the amendment by Mr Havránek and Mrs Klára Dostálová, and I will now say a little bit of a justification based on figures, and after communication with all the owners of apartments, owners' communities, cities and municipalities, and so on. The legislation in question has been imposed since 1. 1. 2023 a monthly obligation to inform owners and tenants about the consumption of heat and hot water. The information is only capable of providing billing or administrative firms that logically charge this new service. The price of these services is estimated at about 800 CZK per apartment per year. According to the Czech Statistical Office, there were 2 434 619 flats in the Czech Republic in 2011 in total. The owners of these apartments will pay about 2 billion a year for these services. At a time when all citizens face a significant rise in prices, not just energy, and the government increases contributions to citizens, the Ministry of Regional Development comes with an absurd obligation to pay for information that everyone can find out at any time on secondary meters. In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Regional Development states that the reason for the amendment of Act No. 67/2013 Sb. is the amendment of the transposition of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. However, the Ministry no longer states that the obligation under the EU directive applies only in cases where it is meaningful and cost-effective. If the amendment is adopted without the amendments submitted, there will be an increase in housing costs, as a significant change in the behaviour of home users in the consumption of hot water and heat on the basis of monthly information cannot be expected. This is, nor is it possible to expect significant financial savings in energy consumption that would justify the costs incurred for information on monthly consumption, which they can find on secondary meters themselves. Leaving the proposed wording of the Act will mean the obligation for all home fund managers, cooperatives, communities, municipalities and private owners to send information to all service recipients each month about their current energy consumption. It is not clear from the proposed law how this regular communication will take place. For a small proportion of service providers, the administrative costs associated with this information obligation will thus be increased. The recipients of services shall not be obliged to provide their electronic addresses and communications between the provider and the recipient of services in paper form. It should be stressed that the proposed amendment under Amendment 1174, which is submitted jointly by my colleague Klára Dostálová and Jiří Havránek, does not in any way restrict or prevent access to information on current energy consumption to service recipients, merely abolishes the senseless obligation of the service provider to inform the recipient of the disclosure of information on a monthly basis. It is sufficient to inform the recipients of the services only once, i.e. once the service is started or when the person concerned becomes the recipient of the services by moving into the apartment, and the service provider assigns the unique access data to the system in this connection. It is then up to service recipients how often they will control their current energy consumption. [[18.10 hours]] There is no other area of legislation where a similar repeated obligation would be imposed on any entity as in this case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The provisions of Article 1 (8) of the Law give each recipient of services the option within 30 days of the date of receipt of the bill or, where appropriate, proof of supporting documents. The service provider shall submit its objections to the method and content of the billing. If this is not the case, the service provider shall take the view that everything is in order and, within a specified time limit, all recipients of the service shall settle the overpayments and non-payments found. In practice, unfortunately, the recipient of services makes use of the general deadline set by the Civil Code and applies its objections retroactively within a period of three years from the transfer of the bill. Where the claim is found justified and the error detected has an impact on the overall results of the settlement, the service provider shall be in a situation where it may be obliged to reverse the billing of all the recipients of the services, with an impact on the already settled overpayments and non-payments. This situation is therefore very difficult to solve if we evaluate, for example, the high fluctuations of home users. It is a general principle that special regulation of Act No. 67/2015 Coll., the Services Act, should take precedence over the general regulation of Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code. The amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development aims to highlight and clarify this priority of the text of the law. At the same time, the proposed amendment addresses the risk of speculative actions to the recipients of services who object just before the expiry of the general limitation period under the Civil Code and sue for the payment of high default penalties for formal billing defects. Now to the very effectiveness. The initial timetable for the implementation of the directive provided for the full completion of the legislative process by 25 October 2020. The preliminary amendment of the Act envisages the entry into force on 1 January 2023. The deadline for service providers to fulfil all obligations arising from the proposed law would therefore be only a few months from the date of adoption of the law compared to the two years originally submitted. This has also been addressed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and adopted a resolution responding to the information obligation, as amended by the Act, which takes effect on 1 January 2023, with the exception of the provisions of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would like to appeal very much to the extension of this effectiveness, because not all esvéječky are prepared to fulfil this obligation, and from 1 January they are not really able to perform this obligation, even though we have discussed on the committee and subcommittee the possibility that the Esvéječka itself has known about this legislation for a long time, but if it is not given by law, then none of the executive committee is preparing power for the situation. And the situation in the Czech Republic is not ready for the Esvéyečka to fulfil this obligation from 1. 1. 2023. Thank you for considering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u7	I thank the Member and the Minister is still reporting to the general debate, but Mr Havránek has previously applied. So you prefer the minister, yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u8	I'm just gonna react briefly. Well, of course, if we were to be implemented on time with the start of year 1. 1. 2023, so we don't care that now is a very short time when the duty arises. I might want to respond to about two things that I think are crucial from the point of view. I kind of respect the situation where people don't even have Internet at home or aren't twice ready to look up something in the online media or watch a portal, but please, let's not make it like a phenomenon. The way to inform the person, owner or tenant - that is, of course, from "I throw a letter into the mailbox" whose recommended version is 32 kroner times 12 - I know that it has some costs, but even the written journey I think cannot generate 800 kroner cost per household - from sending SMS over a gate that is worth 0 through a sophisticated application that I saw with some service providers and SVJ, where the person can actually look on his phone on such dashboard as he consumes with conversion, how much it costs according to current finance. So it's just, I was towed by a car once, and when I said I didn't know it was going to be controlled or cleaned up, I was told I should have read it on the signpost at the city office. That's when I was still living on Letna, and it wasn't even on the website, and we're already as far away as it really isn't that something has to be posted somewhere, and the costs are this high. So maybe it's just that the first question about who's accessing information, and the form of text message, which basically has zero value, if you have, like, some Esvéječek, where you're really sending it through the gate, or you have a hundred-headed esvéječek, but you have free text messages in your average cheapest rate, so, of course, it's also possible if we decompose it to a really small SVJ. And it always depends on how much you value the service. Looking at it with optics: and maybe here, so someone could interpret it that all people will increase the cost of 800 crowns from being informed twelve times... I also don't think that PDF invoice from any Prague gas which is sent to me by e-mail has production costs, and yet it's a monthly invoice - monthly, yeah - that I would be billed 800 divided by 12. I even think that sending that e-mail is almost costless given how many customers this company has. Well, I'm not the only one who would scare people into thinking that translating this novel is gonna come up with these gifts. At the same time, the definition of the remote-deductible gauge - it does not really apply to a very large percentage of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u9	Thank you. In fact, Mrs Fialová is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u10	Thank you for the floor. I understand the Minister completely, but we have already fought this fight in the subcommittee among ourselves, that not all of them, or the tenants of the apartments are not obliged to give the administrator the e-mail communication or the telephone number. There are people who don't make it out of principle, and there are people who don't even have it. And then the common communication, yes, is to throw it in the mailbox. But I'm really giving you an example in my essay, where we have 72 housing units, of which at least ten people don't mention, or from every entrance where there are eight floors, they don't give their e-mail address, they don't provide a phone, and the chairman has to ask for information from the management company, that's the fee, and at least bypass it or send it. I'd just like us to live in a world where everyone would communicate via e-mail and text messages, but unfortunately that's not the way it is at the moment, so it needs to be done in this way. Plus, I can really figure out the consumption at this point every day on these gauges if I want to control it. Access passwords to some software are absolutely sufficient and when providing the service I do not understand the monthly burden of sending text messages, emails or letters. It's pointless. Anyone who wants to keep an eye on their consumption is already doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u11	Thank you, and now, Mr Havránek, who has still signed up for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u12	Thank you. I'll try to be as brief as possible. I would now like to say first, through Mr President, what has been said here on the delay. There the discussions first moved very significantly on the subcommittee and committee. First, there was a delay of up to 1. 1. 2025, a compromise was subsequently reached on the subcommittee for 2024. After that, even after the discussion with the Ministry, there was a partial partial delay as adopted by the Public Administration Committee, and it will be up to us, Members, to decide whether we will switch the obligation to people, or whether the risk of any non-compliance with European law will be addressed by the State. We have 27 today. 9. and the proposal, if it were to 1. 1., it is clear that the essays were to be prepared long in advance, but unfortunately, many of them did not. It's not a mistake of the current ministry, it's a long-term delay in the problem. As for the other amendments, which I would like to state quickly, I have already indicated the first, and Mrs Fialová has quite thoroughly justified the amendment, which you will find under number 1174 in the system. It is an amendment by Mrs Klára Dostálová and my colleague, whose aim is to abolish the obligation to inform where I can inform, in a very simple way for those who do not know the subject as much as we do, who have unfortunately been discussing it on a daily basis for several months. And then, as you can see, there was still work going on with colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development until the last moment on this law, because, as has been said several times by the Minister, the basis by which we are adapting is to change the definition. In fact, there was such a small thing that the change in definition, as we adopted it on the Public Administration Committee, ignores the small essays, such as the one with ten and other small numbers of flats. It would really make it very difficult for them to be able to be able to do a long-distance deduction, and that is why I tabled an amendment, which you will find under number 1308. In essence, the last amendment 1309 is based on the link between the definitions that we are talking about all the time in the Energy Act and the Act that we are discussing in relation to the use of flats. Of course, I will then apply to these three amendments in a detailed debate, but here I have justified them, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u13	I thank Mr Havránek and look - no one is reporting to the general debate anymore, so this is the end of the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u14	Maybe I'd like to add some more, yes. The directive says that the information obligation is free of charge only if written communication is required, this is the one that is being charged. For the amendments - and I have already mentioned this - we have made a benchmark against other countries, as it is being implemented, which is why my position was neutral there. Indeed, the obligation is only provided for when the deductible gauges are over 250 metres away. It really means that it's not - which was a big reservation of those who are supposed to provide the information - that even the drive-in, that the car has to stop there, that it's not what someone imagines to scan from some drone of the whole location and you have all the numbers. And I can't actually act otherwise on this delay of effectiveness than to disagree, because there really is a risk that is very real, there is a suspension of the hearing, the transposition period has passed very, very long ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u15	Thank you. Mr rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? No. That is how we can launch a detailed debate. I merely remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified, and Mrs Fialová reports for the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u16	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my absentee colleague Klára Dostálová to the joint amendment by Klára Dostálová, Jiří Havránek under number 1174, which abolishes the absurd obligation of monthly information and only provides verifiable information at the beginning of the withdrawal of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u17	Thank you. Another entry into the detailed debate - and the last, apparently - is Mr Havránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u18	For the last time, and very fast. I also subscribe to the amendment under number 1174 by Members of Klára Dostálová, Jiří Havránek and subsequently to two of my amendments, purely mine, 1308 and 1309. Thank you. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-007-017.u19	Thank you. No one else is reporting a detailed debate, which is why I am ending a detailed debate. I wonder if there's any interest in final words? It is not, and I am therefore ending with this second reading of this proposal and thank you all for your cooperation. And we're getting to the next point, which is the point.
