ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u1	26. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of foreign trade in sensitive material in connection with the digitization of public administration /German press 251/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade - I have written it, but there is a change - the Minister of the Environment. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u2	Hello. Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Minister Síkela, I would like to introduce to you the bill which is now under discussion. The submitted material in the context of the efforts to strengthen the digitalisation of the state administration primarily amends the provisions relating to the operation of filing in law governing foreign trade in sensitive materials, which are in the gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In particular, this proposal in the relevant laws provides for the submission of applications by electronic forms using automatic loading of data from the basic registers and agenda systems of the state administration using the authorization of users through the national point for identification and authentication. In addition to the modifications to the digitization of the state administration, the Foreign Trade Act also regulates the role of the state in supporting the Czech defence and security industry, which is also one of the points of the Government's programming statement, which currently appears necessary. [[12.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the above, the Government proposes that this bill be approved at first reading. I would like to ask you in this way to comply with this proposal, because I believe that the development of the digitalisation of the state administration and the strengthening of the defence and security industry are currently a common objective, regardless of political affiliation. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Michaela Opltová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, as has already been said by the Minister - I had the Minister - the bill responds to a pair of legislation relating to digitisation, with Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services, and with Act No. 261/2020 Coll., on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the digitization of public administration. Both of these provisions have so-called divided effectiveness and some of their provisions will become effective only in 2025. The law on the right to digital services follows up on the previous activity, which aimed at the maximum extension of electronic forms in communication with the public administration. So basically, where the state issues permits or regulates trade, it must create a user-friendly environment. With regard to digitization, new reporting obligations are introduced for traders in dual-use technologies, and this is, for example, military material. Participants must inform the Ministry of implementation transfers using an electronic form. Failure to fulfil this obligation is an offence for which a relatively high penalty can be imposed, up to CZK half a million. As the Minister has already said, the bill is in line with the Government's programming statement. Everything for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u5	Thank you, Madame, for the rapporteur's report, and I am now opening up a debate. Mr Strýček was the first to enter into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u6	So one more good morning. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to say that we will, of course, support this bill and support it in the short-term negotiations under Section 90. Allow me just a few notes, my personal notes, here on this law. I basically worked in my professional life in the sphere of foreign trade, although not quite here, in this sphere of sensitive materials, however, I had colleagues who moved here in this sphere, and I know that - or when we were talking about it - even a few years ago, it was not relatively long ago, help from the Ministry of Industry and Trade although it was also professional, but by the fact that it all took place on paper, it was partly rigid. It took quite a while, it had to go to the ministry in person, so sometimes things got kind of slow. I understand, of course, that in the area of some very sensitive military materials, both personal negotiations and paper are necessary, but by then some form of electronicisation was certainly welcome. So I personally welcome this law, which seems to make the proceedings more effective and faster. Foreign trade is actually regulated today by a number of legislation, which, as I said before, are in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the control of foreign trade but also cooperates with other ministries. For this today, just for your information, it uses the information system of the electronic licensing administration, the so-called IS ELS. In the last parliamentary term, as the colleagues who were here remember, the law on the right to digital services was adopted. As far as I remember, the law was also declared one of the laws of the year, and it is under this law that the IS ELS system, among other things, introduces interactive electronic forms. In my view, this was the first step that was ideally stimulated by digitalisation and finally fell into this sector. I consider the bill presented to be more or less a technical amendment. According to the reference report, it was created on the basis of the output of the working group, where members of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Trade, BIS, ÚZSI, Military Intelligence and NBÚ were represented, and the aim is to digitize administrative procedures for individual applications made by the business public dealing with sensitive material abroad. On the other hand, I may be a little contradicted right now, but I welcome the fact that even in this law, stakeholders are left with the opportunity to make submissions in paper form. I also think that there is certainly a trend that we should maintain elsewhere, in other areas of public relations with public power, so that, in all digitalisation, one way is left analog, paper or a way for personal negotiations. My last point is more or less in the future. In view of the current situation in the world, it is a major global trend to require foreign countries to assist governments of exporting countries in certain ways in trade in military material and to provide purchasing countries with some degree of synergies in the implementation of trade with a manufacturer or supplier or are directly a selling entity. That means that outside the business-to-business system or business-to-government system, the government-to-government system will also be implemented. I think this form of cooperation between states is becoming increasingly important, as partner countries are looking for a stronger form of partnership than the traditional format of the supplier-state. Today, too, the number of countries that not only require defence intergovernmental cooperation as an alternative is growing rapidly, but have the process for certain types of military material as the only possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-009-026.u7	Thank you very much. I ask, who else is reporting for the general debate? If no one makes a statement to the general debate, I will conclude the general debate. I'm asking for interest in any final words? It's not. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. In the meantime, I'll have my colleagues come. I will make a motion for a resolution. The resolution reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 251 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Some colleagues have arrived. I will therefore repeat for them that we will vote on the agreement to continue the negotiations of the House press so that consent can be given to it at first reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 142 Members voted in favour of 116, no one opposed and the motion for a resolution was approved. I therefore launch a detailed debate on this proposal. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, so I conclude a detailed debate. I'm gonna ask if there's an interest in the final words now? It is neither from the rapporteur nor from the appellant. [[12.20 hours]] We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution. I will reengage for colleagues who want to come to the vote. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending certain laws in the field of foreign trade in sensitive material in connection with the digitalisation of public administration, according to the House's Press 251." The motion for a resolution has been read. I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 143 Members were voted in the 57 vote, 119 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. The motion for a resolution has been adopted, and I therefore state that we have agreed to the bill. I am done discussing this point and thank you both to the rapporteur and to the Minister. Before we continue the program, I'll be allowed to load my apologies. First of all, Mrs Jílková withdraws her original apology today, on the contrary, President Okamura apologises from 11 to 12 o'clock for reasons of work; President Výborný apologies from 12.05 o'clock for reasons of work; Minister Langšádlová Helena apologises from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work, and Minister Síkela apologises from 12.15 o'clock for reasons of work. Now, according to the approved program, we should continue the laws at second reading, namely point number
