ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a draft agenda for the 41st meeting on 29 September of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I beg you to keep your voice down. I propose that we appoint Members of Ondřej kolář and Members of Petr Vrána. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone reporting with another proposal for a meeting verifier. That is why I am opening the vote on whether we are determining the verifiers of this meeting of Mr kolář and Mr Vrána. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 1 registered 117 present, for 110, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Petr Vrána. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you, but at the same time, I also ask for silence. I know that we are opening a new meeting, but please pay attention to the following announcements, because by the beginning of this meeting they have asked to apologize for their absence to the meetings of the following Members: Bašta Jaroslav from 9 to 16 hours for working reasons, Bělor Roman until 14.30 for working reasons, Benešík Ondřej from 15 hours for Okamura reasons, Bernard Josef from 17 hours for working reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav from the whole day of the meeting for reasons of foreign travel, Dufek Aleš from the whole day of the králíček day for working reasons, Exner Martin from the whole working day for the whole day for health reasons, Feranec Milan from the whole pokorný day for Jermanová Pivoňka health reasons, Fifka Petr from the whole working day due to foreign travel, Fridrich Stanislav from the whole day for health Vaňková, Pavla Šimon from the entire Potůčková Lucie for the whole 15 hours of the working time from the whole of the working day for the Teleky of the working reason, Hendrych Igor for the whole working day for the whole working reasons, Janulík Miloslav until 17.30 for reasons of the working day, Kolok Martin for reasons of the reasons of the reasons of the international travel for the Šebelová day, for volný of 15 hours, from the working day, from the Jan day, from the whole of the working day, from the working Zlínský, from the Vladimír David, from the working day, from the working day, from the Jaroslava Wenzl, from the Vojtko Viktor, from the day, from the Róbert, from the whole of the day, from the whole of the day, from the day, from the day, from the day, from the whole of the working day, from the working day, from the day, from the day, from the day, from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day, from the working time from the day, from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the Michaela from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the Hayato from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the day from the Balaš Vladimír apologizes from the members of the government until 16 o'clock for working reasons, Bartoš Ivan from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole meeting day for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal until 17 o'clock for working reasons. We will therefore now proceed to the appointment of the 41st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First, let me introduce you to the proposal on which today's grémium agreed. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I ask you to lower your voice and move your conversations to the lobby, if necessary, so that we know how the program will be adapted. Mr Teleky cancels the apology that was just loaded. I really beg you, colleagues, to focus on what awaits us, there are a number of proposals from the Gremium. Mr. Freeman cancels his apology. Today's grémium agreed: 1. We propose to exclude paragraphs 2 and 114 from the proposal for a programme. This is House press 96, protection of public health, second and third reading. 2. We propose to include new points in the proposal for a programme, namely the House Press 291, the Government Bill amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, and some other laws, second and third reading, into the block of Laws - second reading, respectively Laws - third reading; Parliament's Press 301, the Government's Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, second and third reading, namely block Laws - Second Reading, respectively Laws - Third Reading; The House Press 315, Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, first reading, which would be discussed on Wednesday, 26 October, according to the approved timetable for the state budget. 3. We also propose to discuss Wednesday, October 12th: House printing 301, pension insurance, second reading, first point; House printing 29, provision of benefits to disabled persons, second reading, second point. On Friday 14 October, first discuss the points of the Act block - third reading, in the following order: paragraph 100, House printing 160 - low-emission vehicles; paragraph 102, House printing 31 - copyright; paragraph 104, House printing 139 - Digital instruments; paragraph 106, House printing 175 - International judicial cooperation; paragraph 107, House printing 199 - Housing use; paragraph 109, House printing 207 - Civil aviation; paragraph 111, House printing 216 - Conditions for the operation of vehicles on roads; paragraph 112, House printing 256 - Penalty Law. Then proceed with point 32, House press 313 - Energy Act, first reading, according to § 90 para. 2. Then, if necessary, discuss the items according to the draft agenda. I also say that on Thursday, 13 October, we would continue immediately after the discussion of paragraph 165, i.e. written interpelation, on the basis of the draft agenda. Information at the end. Previous meetings The Chambers of Deputies discussed the following points: paragraph 11, House printing 284, amendment of the State Budget for 2022, second reading; paragraph 22, House printing 291, provision of benefits to disabled persons, first reading in accordance with Section 90 para. 2; point 23, House printing 296, organisation and implementation of social security, first reading; point 25, House printing 298, insurance and export financing with State aid, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2; point 27, House printing 301, pension insurance, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. Point 99, House printing 174, significant market power, third reading; point 101, House printing 213, consumer protection, third reading; point 105, House printing 150, entry and import of certain cultural goods, third reading; point 108, House printing 203, international cooperation in tax administration, third reading; point 110, House printing 215, State service, third reading; and point 154, House printing 212, State closing account 2021. Please cut these points, there is no need to vote on this. They will not be part of the approved agenda. [[14.10 hours]] That's all on my side. I ask you once again to keep your voice down, because we are now getting to the proposals that... there are already a few applicants here, you will be floating, so you can now comment on the draft agenda. Mr Jan Jakob, the President of the Tomio Okamura, who is then signed up for the floor, is the first to apply for the floor. Please, you have the floor. And once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down, especially from the left side of the spectrum of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, on behalf of five coalition clubs, to make proposals on a agenda for a meeting where there was no consensus within the framework of the Gremia. The first proposal is the inclusion of the first item on today, i.e. Tuesday, October 11, item 6, which is the House press 177, it is the Government's bill on the record of sales, at second reading, as the first item. Next, on Wednesday, October 12th, as the third item of the meeting, paragraph 73, House press 165, it is a Senate bill on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, at first reading; hereinafter referred to as point 4 of point 31, which is the House press 312, it is a government bill on association in political parties and in political movements, at first reading; as paragraph 5, paragraph 13, House press 287, it is a government bill on the right to digital services, in second reading; as paragraph 6, paragraph 12, House press 285, it is a government bill on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online, in second reading; and finally, as point 7, point 21, it is the House's Press 289, the Government's Bill on Educational Workers, the Education Act, at first reading. Next, on Thursday, October 13 as the first item immediately after the written interpelations point 17, the House's press 263, the Government's draft law on Czech Television and on Czech Radio, at first reading, with the fact that if he had not been able to discuss it by 13:00, he would have continued from 18:00 after the oral interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. The President of Okamura is now registered with priority rights and President Radim Fiala will be prepared. Please, Mr President, you have the floor, and I ask you, colleagues, once again to remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to include as point 1 on the rising illegal migration to the Czech Republic, because the situation today is such that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and the government of Petr Fiala absolutely cannot handle the situation. I already pointed out this situation in the summer, the same point I suggested here in the summer, the government coalition laughed at it, Petr Fiala - the Prime Minister did not respond, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan also did not respond, the situation was downplayed. And today the situation is that the aggression of smugglers of illegal Muslim migrants in the Czech Republic is rapidly rising and illegal immigration is escalating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u5	Let me ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u6	And, of course, not only I, but also the citizens who write to me believe that the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement and the European Union are failing. The wave of illegal migration to the Czech Republic - the situation is becoming unsustainable. Director of Foreign Police Milan Majer in an interview for Deník The právo pointed out that the aggressiveness of the smugglers of illegal Muslim migrants has increased rapidly and that the Czech army would welcome the help of the Czech army in the guarding of national borders, because police officers are in short supply. This year, 14 214 illegal immigrants were captured in our territory, while during the biggest migration crisis in 2015, it was only 3 024 people, so it is quite clear that predictions are being made, the warning that the SPD was the only one saying here, we drew attention to this situation and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement not only downgraded the situation, but also completely lost control of the situation, because it is incompetent, it does not solve it, and also shows his inability to ensure a sufficient number of police officers. And we've been pointing out here for a long time that we need to strengthen the police staff and, of course, financially.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u7	I'm gonna interrupt you, I'm sorry, but once again, colleagues, I'm asking you for the sixth time today to keep your voice down, and I'm gonna start saying some specific names, who's supposed to go into the lobby to sort things out when I see these crowds that are having fun. Please pay attention to the point promoter. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u8	The SPD movement, as I have already said, has long and repeatedly called for significant personnel and financial reinforcement of the police in this context. The current migration crisis also points to another fatal failure of the European Union to the malfunction of the so-called Schengen system, as well as the malfunction of the readmission agreements on the return of illegal immigrants, because the Němec, of course, are sending us migrants here, the Slovák, in turn, do not want to accept them and there is accumulation in our country. So I would really like to know what the plan is for the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and Petr Fiala's government, because the migrants, illegal migrants from Muslim and African countries are coming here more and more. We haven't heard the plan from the Home Secretary here in a few months when we're warning you. And that's why I've decided that we'd like to place an extraordinary point as an SPD here. Of course, for the SPD movement, I say that these reasons are not only the incompetence and incompetence of the Fialův Government and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, but, of course, it is also the generous social system of the European Union towards illegal migrants, which is the attraction, of course, why migrants are moving so mass into Europe. And, of course, under the SPD, I say that we need to strengthen the security of our borders. Of course, we are pushing for the free movement of persons, of course European states, but citizens of European states, we are pushing for free movement of goods, free movement of capital, services, that is clear, but those border controls so that there are no queues, that is all possible. Today there is a monitoring of passing vehicles available, so it is possible to check even without any more delay, who has some illegal migrants there, and so on. [[14.20 hours]] And I would really like to know how I've already said what the government and Home Secretary Vít Rakušan plan is in this regard, because they didn't introduce us to any plan. We have not been introduced to any plan, we have only heard that the European Union allows border surveillance for ten days. And I'm asking, what's the plan here? Because the problem will continue here, he's been here for months. The government didn't respond. I have said here on the microphone, sometime in the summer, that a number of Czech citizens who live in Moravia near the Slovak border write to me. I was told mostly by women, girls, that they were afraid to go for a walk in the woods tonight, afraid to go in their neighborhood after dark, that, of course, those migrants leave a mess behind, different clothes and the like, running around in the woods and so on, meeting them normally in public. So it would really be appropriate for the government to face it and say what it is actually planning in this regard, how it will resolve it. How they'll figure it out! I hope we don't hear this nonsense again about waiting for a European solution, it's been waiting since 2015. We have the year 2022, no European solution has come up. That's what we all see here, which is why this is the state I'm talking about. So I would ask you to make this point called the steep increase of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic to be the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting. By the way, when I was talking about the fact that the European solutions, or EU solutions - let's not give an equal between Europe and the European Union, it is not the same - so that the EU solutions simply do not (a) come and do not work, even if they do come - indeed the summit of European leaders in Prague was completed on Friday, which, in addition to the photos together, did not produce any concrete result that would improve the lives of citizens. [[The speaker turns to the chairwoman.]] Can I ask you for more peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u9	Yes, I ask my colleagues and colleagues once again to, if they want to deal with something, use the facade to do so and keep the peace here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u10	So the six-month Presidency of the Czech Republic of the European Union costs us more than CZK 2 billion. In addition, there were strong tensions and contradictions among the participants in the meeting, and at the same time there was disunity in dealing with the common energy crisis. The lack of functioning and harmfulness of the European Union, especially in times of crisis, as is the case now, is therefore clearly shown. In the opinion of the SPD, we need to address fundamental political and economic issues primarily in order to match our national interests, and our further membership of the European Union should be the subject of decisions by our citizens in a national, binding referendum that the parties to the government coalition have long rejected. So, briefly and briefly, the summit actually showed this, exactly what I'm talking about about illegal migration, about the point that we've been hearing from the government of Petr Fiala for months, actually three quarters of a year, that we're waiting for some kind of EU solution, but - and at the same time - our citizens and companies are paying immense advances on energy and, in fact, the government's incompetence and incompetence is draining the wallets of both our citizens and of our companies and of course, help is not coming. And now that I heard Prime Minister Fiala's press conference on Friday after the summit, he basically said, "We agreed to make a deal." Then he said that they agreed that they should accept that they should respond more quickly to the energy crisis than before. That means zero. And then he basically said the third sentence that he had to wait for what the European Commission would come up with. Well, that's what's been waiting for three quarters of a year. So it's a really grim situation where the result of this one, I'd say, I'm sorry about the word, dirty eating and drinking for about 50 million crowns, as was in the media, these general words are without any tangible result for citizens of the Czech Republic. So we agreed to make a deal, and we had to argue faster, and the result is that we ran away. So this is the result of the summit that is under the Czech Presidency of the European Union, chaired by Prime Minister Petr Fiala and this is the Fialův Five Coalition Government. Result zero, zero result. Laughing at people, pretty expensive shit, because Prime Minister Petr Fiala just doesn't drive anything, he doesn't drive anything, and he's not able to drive anything. That's the result. So that's why I'm also talking about waiting for some EU solution on illegal migration, so we're not going to see that we're waiting for the eighth year since 2015 and the solution isn't coming. That means we need to adopt a national solution. And that's why I'm suggesting this point here so we can finally learn, but you, the government coalition, will arrogantly reject it again, because you don't want to talk about it, because you don't have a solution. Of course, you can't take that point to discuss it if you don't have a solution, that would just show up in full nudity, so - but the political pressure to finally start doing something, we will, of course, develop here as opposition. By the way, I would still be here in this context, when I was already talking in a broader context about a Union solution - which is not coming, which is to be expected, so also the naivety of the Fialův Government, that it is here - it is always being covered here by waiting for the Union to come up with something, and it is already waiting for the 8th year, the 8th year is waiting for the solution to illegal migration! Meanwhile, there is a deterioration in the security situation in Western Europe. There's no go zones, there's crime. They can't even go into many neighborhoods anymore because they're afraid to go. There is basically a full-blown Islamization of society. For example, let us look at France, look at Sweden and other countries. Today, 75 percent of citizens do not agree with the actions of the Fialův Government in an energetic crisis. Well, that's the way it is, but the reality is that you haven't even taken any steps to help people, so that 75 percent of the citizens don't agree with the fact that you haven't done anything and that you're not helping people at all. And that's not a survey that Okamura here should suck out of his finger. This is a survey of the Kantar Agency for Czech Television, where citizens have clearly said that 75 percent of citizens no longer agree with the Fialův Government, with what it does. This means that there are hardly a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic who agree with you. So, under the SPD, we will continue to put political pressure on your government, because the disgruntled citizens are growing, and of course we will also organize demonstrations of our own, and we will also exert political pressure here, because the demands of disgruntled citizens, which are continuously coming from energy suppliers of invoices multiple, multiple increases in advances on electricity and gas payments, we consider their demands to be perfectly justified in this area. And it is truly ruthless that instead of helping our citizens, the government is planning to negotiate together on 31 October in Kiev with the Ukrainian Government on the restoration of Ukraine. I think these government priorities are really unacceptable to the SPD, because Ukraine is first for the government of Petr Fiala. You are the Ukrainian government, which is why they also call you Prime Minister Fial, that he is Ukrainian President, Ukrainian Prime Minister, but for the Czech Republic Czech citizens are first, the Czech Republic comes first, so these are your government priorities when you threw Czech citizens overboard and you go to Germany, Brussels and Washington and everything, so of course this is unacceptable for us, because we need it to be in the Czech Republic - we want the Czech Republic as the SPD to be a safe country, so it is safe for us not to have war here, so that we do not get involved in war. We want the highest standard of living for our citizens here. So, in conclusion, I would like to summarize this once more: I propose an extraordinary point at this House meeting, I propose here repeatedly, as I said, but the government simply refuses to address it, and it concerns - the point about the sharp growth of illegal, mainly Muslim immigrants into the Czech Republic. The situation escalates, and the Home Secretary just doesn't figure it out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. President Radim Fiala is now registered and follows - President Schillerová reporting. So, please, you have the floor. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, please keep the room calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me propose an extraordinary point, which will be called because of the energy crisis and the government's inaction threatens to collapse. [[Dictates:]] Because of the energy crisis and the government's inactivity, companies are in danger of crashing. I deliberately dictate this for the sake of Madam President so that she can write it down. [[Thank you.]] Last week at the Assembly of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, there was criticism of the government in the area of energy price security for companies. The SPD movement agrees with the comments made on this House. For next year, only 20 percent or 22 percent of companies and only 20 percent of companies have fixed gas prices. If our companies are not provided with affordable energy, they are in danger of moving their production elsewhere. They will simply move to Europe for more affordable energy, such as India and the like, so that their products are competitive on the world market, because neither the European Union nor Petr Fiala Republic can provide them with affordable energy in the future. And those companies aren't enough, they're from middle to big companies. They're talking about it, I'm not going to name it here, but they're talking about it completely publicly, they're talking about it in the press, they're talking about it on TV, they're just not going to be financially viable for the future to stay in the Czech Republic. What does that mean? Well, it means that unemployment will rise in the Czech Republic, the Treasury will lose a lot of tax revenue and, of course, we, as the state, their taxes, their social insurance and health insurance for employees, need because if we don't have it, we won't have the money for pensions, we won't have the money for social benefits for people who can't work, and so on. This means that there is a threat of industrial destruction not only in the Czech Republic, Germany - we say that the so-called deindustrialisation of industry in Central and Western Europe is taking place, because big companies are simply moving elsewhere to have better conditions for their business and actually to survive, because it just might not be possible for some time here. The German Volkswagen Group, which is the owner of the largest car manufacturer in the Czech Republic, also threatened Škoda auto, a stock company. The oldest working glassworks in Europe has also announced its closure due to high gas prices, and most of the 90 employees are planning to be discharged - simply because they have increased the energy costs they need to do business five times. And that's not the end of the year. Unfortunately, the Fialův Government is not defending the interests of our industrial companies, companies and citizens, it is not a government of experts, and in our view it should end as soon as possible. Take Germany, for example. This government, the Fialův Government, is making excuses that it is not possible for it to support medium and large companies, because it is forbidden by the rules of the European Union. Germany literally sprinkled 200 billion euros of German industry to maintain business in Germany, to help save German companies, and it was the Union of Neunies, rules of non-rules, simply the survival of those companies. But we in the Czech Republic say alibis: Rules are rules, we don't help anyone, we have 30 billion, so whoever lost the biggest profits, we will help them. What does that mean? At present, there has been an optimization of last year's accounts, or last year's accounts, so that companies, for example, can save and try to save some energy money, have not fallen to profits or losses that were higher than the rules that the government gave them in order to be included in the aid scheme, and only because they have saved will they not be entitled to any aid. This is a disaster. The only way, as we call it, is to get out of Green Deal, sell electricity - sell electricity directly from producers, put it on the market with producers and sell it - up to CZK 3,000 per megawatt - to sell it to Czech citizens and Czech companies. If the government does not have the courage to do so, the destruction of the Czech industry and the economy will really take place. Of course, we have reports that Czech farmers are also failing, they have huge problems with this, and therefore something has to be done. We've been calling for extraordinary meetings here, focusing on energy problems, on food problems. Nothing happened! The Minister of Agriculture is invisible, in the House I think he hasn't spoken yet, and it looks like - no, but it's true - food has increased by 40 percent, they have even increased more than energy, and we will probably see food in the near future and that food will not be at all. They just won't! Go to Macro, try to buy sugar! No dice, no sugar, it just isn't. There's no sugar! We don't! Ask next week or next month, we'll see. And unfortunately, the situation will continue to accumulate, it will be a problem, and for that reason I propose this point. I think Petr Fiala's government should urgently address this, because what we're going to do here if we don't have industry, agriculture, the economy, if we have to pay a lot more people on welfare, to support unemployment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u13	I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you, I'm sorry about that, but the information on sugar here has raised the noise level again, and I want you, my colleague and colleagues, to ask again for silence, and that goes for the whole O.R. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that by what I'm saying, we excite colleagues, that this is a problem that everyone wants to solve and comment on, and everyone is commenting on it, and I understand that, but I think that the government of Petr Fiala should mainly comment on it, and it should do something about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u15	I'm going to ask for a solid assignment. I don't realize if I overheard. Like the first point? [[The designer agrees.]] Thank you. It is now registered with the President's priority right. I have two more apologies to cancel: Mr Bernard cancels his apology, and Mrs Potůčková also cancels her apology. And one more announcement, Mr Skopeček votes with card number 46. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna ask you to keep the room down again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also have a proposal for a new item on the agenda for this meeting. I am a little disappointed that there are few members of the government here, I see only the Minister of Health - I am happy to see him, hello, but I think it is up to the meeting to start, relatively - not quite, but certainly - a small representation of government representatives. Now, about that point. I propose to include the item as the first item on today's day, entitled Growth in inflation and impacts on households and companies. Let me respond to today's published development of the consumer price index published by the Czech Statistical Office, which reached 18 percent year on year, which is 0.8 percentage point more than last month, in August. Items in the housing section, primarily energy and fuel prices, contributed most to this acceleration. The increase in electricity prices has accelerated to 37,8%, natural gas to 85,9%, solid fuels to 55,8%, but food prices are also rising, such as flour prices by 61 % year on year, poultry meat prices by 36,7 %, semi-fat durable milk by 50,1%, butter by 50,5%, etc. [[14.40 hours]] To imagine this in real terms, I have prepared for you an increase in food prices during the time we left the government and from the present. Butter according to data of the Czech Statistical Office - 168,87 kroner per kilo, now the price of butter is 222.02 kroner per kilo. The bread was 29,82 kroner per kilo, today it is 40,97 kroner per kilo. Chicken whole - 58.44 crowns, today people pay 76.90 crowns per kilo. Egg pasta cost CZK 51 per kilo, today people pay CZK 71.27 per kilo. Oranges were 25.13 crowns a kilo, today 41.17 crowns a kilo. eidam came out at 163.15 kroner per kilo, now he goes out at 211.82 kroner per kilo. The peppers were 56.93 crowns a kilo, today they are 66.49 crowns a kilo. Smooth wheat flour used to cost 14,41 kroner per kilo, today worth 21.21 kroner per kilo. Wheat white bread was $45.35 a kilo, now worth $60.94 a kilo. The sugar crystal came out at 14,16 kroner per kilo and now it's 18.21 kroner per kilo. The beef of the rear without bone cost 220.21 kroner per kilo, now worth 278,29 kroner per kilo. This extraordinary rise in prices was felt by almost all social classes. We can't close our eyes to this. A third of households have a hard time getting along with their funds. Czech households are really poor. The decline in real income for the third quarter of 2022 is predicted to be almost 10 percent. People today live on the savings they created in our government. In this period, household savings have been increased as a percentage of disposable income up to 21 percent. Today, when it is not even a year from the beginning of this five-calice government, the household savings rate is almost half its original size, up to 12 percent of household income available. The absolute inactionability of the government has also been reflected in the decline in the trust of citizens and companies in the capacity of this government. The support of Petr Fiala's government is at a minimum level. The Czech Republic still has one of the highest inflations in the European Union. In addition to increasing energy and food prices, there is, for example, an increase in fees in kindergarten schools, fees in school clubs and so on in the beginning of the school year. Not to mention that import prices increased by 24 percent year on year and import prices of gas by almost 440 %. Dear government, today's situation is already so complex that Czech households and companies are getting into unprecedented problems that this government had to some extent to prevent. Unfortunately for all of us, it failed. How arrogant, ruthless five-calice is, and together with its unpredictability, only leads to uncertainty between Czech citizens and companies. So I stress that it is time for her to finally fight for Czech citizens and for companies. I therefore propose this new item on the agenda of the meeting entitled - I repeat again - the growth of inflation and the impact on households and companies. I propose that he be placed as the first item of today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. It is now on the agenda for the meeting of Mrs Dostálová. Mr Vondráček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose inclusion as the first point in today's negotiations to address the housing crisis. To my proposal, I would like first to present a few current figures, why I think we should start taking this issue very seriously. Construction offices issued 9.2% less year-on-year building permits, 28.6 percent less year-on-year flats. It was completed by 6 percent less flats and the interest rate on the really new mortgage loans provided increased to 5.76 % in August. The decrease in the volume of mortgages provided in the Czech Republic is noticeable not only against 2021, but also in comparison with 2020 the August volume of mortgages provided is almost 60 percent. This year, that is, from January to August of this year, more than half of the activity on the mortgage market has failed. The year-on-year decline in the mortgage market by 78% is dramatic. Indeed, we will have to deal with the problems our young families face today. Families are not only at risk of losing their housing, because we must realise that they have experienced drastic energy prices and an incredible rise in interest rates at one time, if, of course, they have reached the end of the fixation of a particular mortgage. But the young family also deals with huge inflation. Foods got expensive, drugs got expensive, and so on. I'm sure all of you have feedback from these young families in the framework of the parliamentary week. I've already set the example here. Young people, a man 35 years old, a woman 31 years old on maternity leave with an annual child, have a mortgage on the house of 3.5 million crowns. Their fixation ended and after the fixation, their payments grew by CZK 9,000 a month to CZK 21,600. At the same time they have increased backups on energy and in total the increase in energy is 8 500 CZK. Once again, this family's net income is about 32,000 crowns. Of course, we can argue that we have a housing contribution here, but we need to realise that the housing contribution is mainly accompanied by energy-related costs, but certainly not the end of mortgage fixation. That is why I would like us to discuss, under this point, that the government would agree that the austerity tariff will only be for this year, to reconsider its decision and to give the austerity tariff really at least to the most unnecessary ones, and to think about our young families, because no one solves the mortgages and termination of the fixation. Of course, you can argue that young people can sell the housing, that they can sell the houses and move elsewhere. The question is, where else did I show the numbers here at the beginning that they're building less? And in all that, as they say, the left does not know what the right one is doing, the Ministry of Regional Development has stopped the programme to support young families, where young people could benefit from this programme of state loans, such as cooperative participation, so that they could get into cooperative housing at all. This program is stopped, so even if young people sell these houses, they really don't have a place to live and they don't have anywhere to go. Another option that we can address here in the context of the housing crisis is that the Ministry of Regional Development has a programme in the drawer, of course for a long time, that if, for example, rates get above 5%, it can help to finance interest on loans. Even this program has not yet been initiated. The big problem facing today's households is that after a huge boom and a huge advertising of renewable resources, many young families are putting so-called photovoltaics, or solar panels on the roof. But unfortunately, more and more families are meeting with refusal to connect to the distribution network, and of course all of this has a huge impact on the housing crisis itself. [[14.50 hours]] It would certainly be worth talking about whether the mortgages could be multi-generational, that is, to be paid back more than twenty, twenty-five years, to be forty years or more, to spread out their payments in time, because, for example, on the 2+kk apartment in Prague, the savings on the payment would be more than CZK 5,000 if it were forty years or more. And these are, of course, very important funds in the young family's budget. Another way to help in this situation is for real - and now forgive me for the expression - but for little money a lot of music: dealing with multigenerational houses in the countryside. There were long ago multigenerational houses built here, but many young people went to the city and really seniors - our mothers, grandmothers and so on - stay in huge houses, in large houses many times alone, and yet it would be enough really little money, 100 000, 200,000 for one such household to make separate bathrooms and separate entrances and immediately offer more flats to use for our young families. Therefore, I will repeat, I would very much like us to talk about this, put it as the first point in today's negotiations and give answers to our young people's questions. I also asked for the second point of today's negotiations, and this is a priority point - press 41, which concerns the trade law, because once again it is heading towards solving the housing crisis. This concerns the so-called digital platform Airbnb, which means shared accommodation. The law as prepared as it is in the House, all we have to do is discuss it. I certainly think there would be a rapid discussion - it is about empowering cities and municipalities to issue their own decrees, for example, to regulate short-term stays in their territory. That way, of course, a lot of such owners, through regulation, maybe would free up the apartments for classic rental housing for a long-term contract. So, please, the first point of today's negotiations, the solution to the housing crisis, and as the second point, the press number 41, the trade law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u19	Madame, where do you want to put him, that point number 41? [[Ms Dostálová: For point 1.]] For point 1. Okay, let's be clear. Now Minister Rakušan has applied with priority right, so Mr Vondráček will wait a little longer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. Madam President, hello, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response and then an outline of the procedure. We have heard here that European solutions in migration do not work, that they have all failed, including the Czech government. Well, a couple of dates about what's happened in the last few weeks and what's going to happen. Right now on Wednesday... excuse me, on Thursday and Friday, the Ministerial Council of Interior Ministers is the whole of the European Union, and the only topic for those two whole days is migration, namely migration in those very specific, tangible matters that will not reach a short time - negotiations with countries of origin, further strengthening Frontex, better protection of external borders, an opinion on the introduction of controls at internal borders. It is just a migration issue and, of course, we have to build on our decisions and what we can achieve at the Union level. But that the government of the Czech Republic didn't do anything? We were a country that did not like to restore border controls at the Slovak-Czech border. That decision has been made 26. 9., the actual onset of the measure began at night from 28. to 29. 9. under the Schengen Borders Code, so the government did in the first phase for 10 days, and because we saw that this measure - I think that President Okamura could update his speech - because of course this solution has its meaning. 2 215 illegal migrants have been detained and 53 smugglers have been detained, who, of course, are being dealt with as the solution is legally required. The Czech Republic consistently applies readmision to the Slovak Republic and we do not allow people who do not have permission to enter the Czech Republic on our territory. Yes, the controls also required some border incidents, such as the accident of the shipment in which the immigrants were transported by the smuggler, but it is unfortunately a tax on the fact that the controls were restored. Sixty customs officers and 80 soldiers were added to 310 police officers, who are also concentrating on overseeing the green border. These measures have a clear effect because yesterday's data from the Czech-German border reported zero arrested illegal migrants from the territory of the Czech Republic heading Germany. The number of illegal migrations in the Czech Republic after the introduction of this measure has been shown to decline, so the government of the Czech Republic has extended temporary checks on the Slovak-Czech border again in accordance with European and Czech legislation for another 20 days, which means until 28. 10th including. In the meantime, there was a meeting of ministers of the interiors of Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, where we agreed on a joint procedure, such as strengthening the external borders of Hungary, namely police officers from Austria, the Czech Republic, who are already there, police officers from Slovakia should be present in the future. In the meantime, two more international meetings were held to strengthen the external border - negotiations with the Balkan states, the Western Balkan states, because the migration route is dominantly from the Western Balkans. So the Czech government is doing its utmost to reduce the pressure of illegal migration in the Czech Republic at this time. And I say again, we have even taken an unpopular and unprecedented step to reinstate the controls. I want to thank the citizens of the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic for their patience, I want to thank the mayors and mayors of adjacent communities for their patience, but they praise this very measure because there has obviously been a loss of illegal migration in the Czech Republic. Following our example, Austria introduced similar checks at the border with Slovakia, Slovakia strengthened border surveillance over the border with Hungary, so, of course, action is also being taken at European level. But we have one thing to admit - yes, it is, of course, a partial solution. It is a solution that the Czech Republic could prepare, just as we have prepared detention centres for illegal migration, just as we have applied the Readmission Agreement against Slovakia from the beginning and we are doing all the measures that the law allows us, just as we have established a working group with Minister Blažek, which will propose tightening the penalties for smuggling in the Czech Republic. These are concrete steps, but with concrete positive results. But no one is giving them up for a comprehensive solution to the migration situation, which, whether they like it or not, must be found at a European level. The only way is to reduce currents, migratory currents that are currently leading to the European Union, that is to talk with Turkey. By the way, Prime Minister Fiala had a meeting with President Erdogan, planning a meeting with the Turkish Interior Minister, a meeting with the Western Balkan states, to which we must show that we are their partner, but at the same time we have some demands on the safety standards that they apply to the entry of people into their territory. These are all things that we can do at this point, as the Presidency, we are organising, and as the Presidency, we have also prepared meetings of the Interior Ministers only and only on the subject of migration. And I guarantee you that at our next meeting, when the meeting of the Ministers of Interior and Ministers for Migration of the European Union is held, I will give you a detailed situation on the state of illegal migration in the Czech Republic. Now just calming down the citizens and citizens that someone is trying to scare - the measures taken by the government of the Czech Republic have led to a reduction, a significant reduction in illegal migration in the Czech Republic, and that is the guarantee that I give you for the government of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. We will now return to the registered in writing - Mr Vondráček and prepare Mr Kukla, who follows. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u22	Madam President, thank you for the floor. So I was drawn in an exclusive time after the Home Secretary's performance, and I'm actually going to follow up on him fluently. First, for the President. I'll follow the name on the written application - I think it says the Government's information on national security issues. And it will be about the movement of migrants in the territory of the Czech Republic. [[15.00 hours]] Thank you. So I would like to point out that it is not just the SPD, as President Okamura has said here, that the only SPD here raises these issues and that they are the only ones involved. I myself sit here for at least the third time, and I know that many of my colleagues have performed, and we offer a different rhetoric and offer a different style of objections and questions. And we would really like to be heard by now. Minister Rakušan has already spoken once, now he has spoken twice, but we want to debate this matter and we want to ask questions. It is a government that answers to the Chamber of Deputies. It is the Chamber of Deputies that expresses confidence in the government. It is perfectly legitimate for us to have this debate on the premises of the House and for Members to be able to ask the Minister, not to come, to say what he has prepared and to leave again. And I think that there are no more important questions in the Czech Republic than there are currently issues of national security and the issues of the movement of persons within our borders. I have an updated speech - as the Minister said Mr Okamura has to update his speech - to confirm that there really is increased police efforts at the border with Slovakia, that patrols are going through there on an ongoing basis and that, on the one hand, it means calming the situation, and I could say that we have no problem in the Zlin Region. On the other hand, when you go with your family at ten o'clock in the morning and you see six migrants and there are three broken police cars, you see the situation as tense. And it is true that those who are captured in our territory are still bound to Holešov, in our home to Holešov, where they are given some basic help and are bought a ticket. They are seated on a train where they may have their own car, heading towards Prague and have 30 days to leave the Czech Republic. And no one - or to me, Minister, answer me if there is any overview and any record of how long these people have been here, where they are, basically, and what they live from, and, above all, what the security risks are, and whether we have a mapped movement of these people. And what happens when Germany really closes the border? I, for one, am the main thing that I may agree with the chairman of the SPD - that there really is a lack of strategy and a lack of a plan. I really miss strategy, some broader perspective on what happens when the German border closes tomorrow, what about those people who have 30 days to travel? What happens to them when Germany returns them because we still don't deal with this here? And as far as I know, they're trying again and again. That means, in some way, our border with Slovakia is more protected now, and I can confirm that. I can confirm that soldiers are moving there, people are calling me. However, it is not possible to close the border hermetically, because it would have to stand 50 meters apart, and we simply do not have the capacity. That means crossing borders is still happening. I have unofficial information that maybe some 150 a day is being held anyway. I would like to hear from the Minister of the Interior, if that is what the next step is, and most importantly, if you really feel within the Schengen area that this is a system solution, because we will catch some, some we will not catch, those we will catch, we will put on a train in Hulín, send them to Prague and here you can deal with it! Are they going to Prague or where they're going? And they go to Germany, and when they get caught, they go back to the Czech Republic. Does this seem like a system solution within the European Union to you? You say you're doing the absolute best. I think the absolute maximum certainly looks different. You may be doing your best, but the absolute maximum looks a little different. You also said there was a consistent readmision in Slovakia. I have other information. I have information that sometimes those Slovák take those migrants away from you, and sometimes it doesn't work as 100%. You've come to the conclusion that the borders have closed for the first 10 days. The first was a rather irritating response from a Slovak colleague, the Minister of the Interior, and especially from Slovak Prime Minister Heger, who was not in line with what the Czech Republic had done. And why aren't we communicating? And there's been any communication? He's kind of smiling behind me, Mr. Secretary. I say again, I want to discuss this in a matter of fact, constructively, I want to ask questions, and I think that this point should be put on the agenda for today's meeting. I, Madam President, forgot to say, or is it already a change - Vice-President, if you add up there, I propose a new point, as written on the written invitation. And I want him to be the first point tonight. I'm aware there's a lot of pressure on the first point today. In the event that he is not voted first, then, alternatively, first after those who, until then, will be classified as solid. So we have a large movement of illegal migrants within the Czech Republic, which is why I called this point National Security issues, because it doesn't just concern borders anymore. I can be glad that the situation in the Zlín Region has calmed relatively, even though they are still the migrants in the forest, and I am constantly in some way walking information, but it is not basically just about migrants from the Czech Republic. I'd like to open another branch that I can get to, this last thing. I have just heard for the first time that Turkish President Erdogan has dealt with our prime minister on this issue - I have not learned anything about this in the media. Then I would like to know more on this parliamentary ground! There's no way we're gonna find out by the way! It was just a unique chance for them to meet to negotiate something. I would like to know how communication with Hungary works. I'd like to know exactly where the migrants are going when the Maďar built the fence? So, then, Romania, Ukraine, which way do these people go? Because they're thousands! Two weeks ago Austria reported that perhaps 6,000 a day or three weeks ago. In our country, we're basically talking about thousands, too, if I take 200 a day, that it's caught, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. I keep saying that most, I think, two-thirds of them are able to get through without getting caught by our patrols. And then what happens to them? So I'm wondering about some international communication. And I would really like to know if, and when, we're going to start helping on the external Schengen border, as it was in the past, when we sent our cops there, and if - but again, that's great, Minister, that you're telling me from behind that you're telling me this, but we want to hear it at a special point and we want to discuss it in some way. The Chamber of Deputies is not a pendant of government, it is precisely the opposite, and we would like the Parliament of the Czech Republic to have a say in this matter, not that we will receive some information here that takes five minutes of your speech. So we're both interested in international contexts, international situations, and then of course our internal ones. And not only borders, but what happens to these people in the territory of the Czech Republic. And I'm really talking about national security and it's a lot of people, and that's a). And b) there is then the thing that came into my hand today, and this is the proposal of basic principles for setting the conditions of the legislative framework of lex Ukraine and subsequent legal implementing acts, processed by the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. I will briefly quote to you: "A clear national strategy is lacking in the hierarchy of competences of state administration bodies with clear conditions and links for the residence of citizens of Ukraine in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is active in the current situation compared to the surrounding countries as a generous background, which is now being abused significantly by people with an interest in legalization of residence in the European Union, in addition, often working in the Czech Republic so-called black, and thus obtain free housing in the Czech Republic. The current setting is perceived negatively by the public, which can be used by various interest groups to promote the radicalisation of society. Many citizens are now in difficult existential situations, one cannot be taken lightly." The sentence is highlighted: "Set clear and uniform rules and procedures for accommodation and social support of Ukrainian refugees in the Czech Republic and limit payment of flat-rate compensation, with a maximum of five months to take care of themselves. " This brings us to another large group of foreign nationals who move around the Czech Republic, and I asked Mr. Governor and he said: We as captains simply don't know how many physically we have in our territory Ukrainians. We're part of a system, we want to work in some way, but where they move, how they move, how many we have, so we don't have it. And the only thing they're calling for is a system. They want to know how many people are moving around here. The conflict in Ukraine is developing, the situation has now become completely unbelievable and attacks on the civilian population are happening again throughout Ukraine. Of course, I understand that this will be a challenge for us, too, but I just keep feeling that what the captains say is basically missing a system and an overview of who and how we are moving here - both in the Syřan and in the Ukrajinec. [[15.10 hours]] That's why I called that point National Security issues, and I'm standing here for the third time, and the third time I say, let's place this special point because it deserves it and because there's not so much more important. Of course, we are worried about the energy crisis, we are worried about inflation, but this is at least the third most important point, and with all due respect for the points proposed by the Grémium or proposed by the coalition to put firmly on the agenda of this meeting, I think that the occupation of some councils of Czech television or, possibly, whether commercial insurance companies can insure foreigners in the health sector, these are things that will really wait, but this can't wait. I myself stand here for several times, I am not the only one, and again I ask: let's reserve some precise time. After all, clubs can agree between themselves that only someone will perform, and you will be able to answer individual questions. Otherwise, it's on my part. Don't be angry, no longer bordering on the contempt of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, because we deserve those answers. Minister, thank you for your helpful response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. The item is called Government Information on National Security Issues and to include as the first point today, or as the first point after fixed points. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan has applied with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My reaction will be clear. I also know the emotions before every show, and it's like you're turning your ears off and we're not listening to each other. Once again, I have said here that after the Council of Interior Ministers on a single topic on Thursday and Friday, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies about the migration situation and the results of this Council. This was said in my previous word, which I think I have quite shown that we are ready for discussion. And one more comment: What contempt for Parliament? At least I hope that your colleagues, through the Vice-President, my colleague, will confirm that the topic of the last Security Committee, among other things, was the migration situation with detailed analysis, detailed data, the presence of all relevant police officers who gave very, very detailed information. I will not now comment on the inaccuracies in your speech such as that there are reinforced patrols at the border - no, they are at the border, border controls are being re-established. That's a big difference, of course. And on the subject of Ukraine and so on, we will, of course, be happy to comment. I think there will be a good opportunity for this when we discuss lex Ukraine IV - I think that is the appropriate carrier. And at that moment, of course - and I speak for Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka - you will certainly also be introduced a system of how it will continue to look with emergency accommodation and with the policy of benefits against the arrivals from Ukraine. But I am glad to hear from the opposition the perception of the negative situation in Ukraine - that is a positive signal and also the awareness that this situation can, of course, escalate in an unpleasant way towards the European Union in the coming months. That is true, and the government of the Czech Republic is certainly preparing for this. And you'll get that information, like I said. I will speak with a detailed migration report, including the results of the meetings of the European Union ministers. I am glad that you are looking at this differently than the SPD, and therefore you certainly believe that it is the European level of solutions that can bring about, not the solitaire solution of one state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Another enrollment - I just keep pointing out that we have a debate on the proposal for amendments to the approved programme - is Mr Martin Kukla. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a new point on today's agenda as the first point; if it is not approved, then the first point for the points already included. This point is called Expensive Energy and their solution. When we look at today's situation, the government has brought some solutions, but it has been a very confusing solution, it has been remodeled several times, and one doesn't really know what it is, what the final solution is. I still don't know what help will be for public institutions, for schools, for kindergartens. For example, Vysočina Region still has no gas supplier at this time. I wonder if the government will even help him secure the supplier? There's a price ceiling on the table, but if we look at the prices, CZK 7 per electricity, and more, do you think our companies will be competitive? Do you think households deal with such prices? I certainly don't think so. When we look at the Vysočina Region, there is a Dukovany nuclear power plant that produces kilowatts for some 50 cents, and if we look at how much people are supposed to buy it for, it's worth 7 crowns and more. I'm asking, why didn't the government stop the prices directly from the producers? Who makes such huge money out of it? And now I'm going to give you two examples because the Prime Minister here has always told me that he wants to specifically help specific people. I have two or three examples here, and I'll tell you what they are. The first example is a cottage where there is an energy tariff D25D, there is a fixed price for three years, there is a tariff, complete electricity, March 2021, it is from EG. D or from former EO.Nu And there's a flat fee of 280 crowns. And the government here helped in the amount of 3,500, which means she paid people electricity for the whole year, including hours. Another example: I have a household - and these are examples that came from people - the D25D tariff, once again the fixed price, that means that for those people there is no increase at this time, and again they received CZK 3,500 without any increase in the price of electricity. So I don't think the help is specific. And then I have another example-- a household where they didn't have fixed electricity, they paid a monthly advance of 3,000, now their monthly advance went up to 10,000, and they got 3,500. So the government says it helps specific people. I certainly don't think so. I'd like to ask the government if anyone here will answer me what help will be from 1. 1. 2023, if it's just a splash, or what kind of help will it be for the needy? And if Petr Fiala's government knows the answers to my questions, it will certainly help me put this item on the agenda for today's meeting, and I will be glad if you will help me push and vote for this. I have another point, this is my second application, which I would also like to include as the first point of today's meeting, or, if it is not voted out, as the next point for the already included, and this is the problem that concerns the bankrupt bank of Sberbank. We've been discussing the situation around Sberbank, I think it's still not resolved. When we look, yes, small savers received a paid amount of up to 100,000 euros. But what about the others? The others haven't gotten anything yet. The guarantee fund paid off the small savers, paid off some 27 billion, and at this point, when we look at the insolvency administrator, we know that the guarantee fund will be satisfied, the 27 billion, first. And I have here a specific example from the Vysočina Region, and I quote it to you: "The Vysočina Region is facing a fundamental problem where the insolvency administrator and its advisors are not provided with relevant and legally supported documents." At least that information was given to me by the Deputy Minister for Economics, and I will quote him: "We have not even been answered by a fundamental question as to how the use of banking systems will be addressed after 12 December 2022, which are necessary for the successful management of the credit portfolio sale process. " After that date, sanctions should be applied to the U.S. office and under-licensing contracts should cease to apply to the use of banking systems. We believe that they have not been dealt with and that this threat may have a detrimental effect on the bank's assets being sold. [[15.20 hours]] I'd like to ask the government how help is prepared, because when we look, there are relatively large funds stuck to the authorities, the Region. The highlands there have roughly CZK 2.7 billion, which is some 50 percent of tax revenue, and I fear that the insolvency administrator will act in such a way that, of course, there may not be any funds left over from the municipalities. Therefore, I would like the House to address this point once again, the name: Sberbank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, I've noted both points. And now the next envoy is Mrs Lenka Dražilová, and I would ask that Mr Kobza be prepared, then Mr Juchelka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u28	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone has something to say, and they think it's something else that's important. I am in the social field, and I would therefore like to make a proposal to include a new point entitled Information on the progress of the work on the long-term care law. Long-term care is one of the key prerequisites that ensure dignified ageing and high quality of life in old age. According to the WHO definition, long-term socio-health care aims to maintain the highest possible quality of life in line with individual preferences and the highest degree of independence, autonomy, participation, personal fulfilment and dignity. Long-term social health care as such represents a set of services for persons with reduced levels of functional, physical or cognitive capacity, which for a longer period of time depend on assistance with basic activities of everyday life. So many definitions. Although long-term care facilities must, of course, necessarily be developed, community services must be a priority - on that, I believe that we agree, or community type services, i.e. field, outpatient, virtual services, that is, services that lead to the reduction and delay of the need for long-term provision of residential services. And especially at community level, it shows how urgent it is to link individual services primarily to social and health, which are often completely separate. It is necessary to coordinate the approach and individualize it effectively tailored to the person. That's what's missing in practice. It often happens that two people go to one client completely senselessly. It sounds incredible, but since the 1990s, experts have been trying to solve problems relating to the provision of long-term care or, if you like, social-health boundaries in the Czech Republic. Countless working groups of departmental or interdepartmental groups have tried to solve this issue. A number of round tables, conferences and expert discussions were held. But all of these efforts have remained without a concrete result. Probably the furthest occurred in 2011, when the substantive intention of the Long-Term Care Act was developed and it is actually the most successful yet, albeit unfinished attempt. Both departments, both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health jointly submitted a proposal for the substantive intention of the Long-Term Care Act, which means a detailed description of long-term care solutions including field services. The proposal envisaged a substantial increase in the capacity of so-called home care and included a detailed description of the situation at that time. When I move on to the last efforts from 2018 to 2021, a new inter-resort group for long-term care solutions was established. At the time she had two presidents, ministers of both departments - work and social affairs and health. After about a year's activity, however, this group ceased its activities or stopped meeting. Both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health prepared their own proposals for solutions which were not published. The arrival of the covid-19 pandemic ended the hope of possible proposals or changes in this government's term of office. I would like to place this point primarily because there is a real risk that the Czech Republic could lose CZK 8.5 billion, to which we should be entitled from the Recovery Plan. The condition for drawing this amount is that, at the latest from January 2024, a new law on long-term care will be effective, on which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health should already work. It is important to expect demographic developments, where the number of people requiring formal care in their home environment will increase enormously, in the Czech Republic this increase will be above average compared to other European countries. In view of this fact and as chair of the subcommittee on social health boundaries, I would ask that the two major departments to address this issue, namely the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, present to Members a clear vision and direction of resolution of this issue, taking into account the short time left until the adoption of this law. In my opinion, the Prime Minister must be involved in solving this problem, who should delegate a clear solution to this subject, and he should be independent of both institutions, because, as has been shown in the past, this person must also be prepared to resist certain officials of one or the other resort and must hold the specified direction and assignment. I consider the inclusion of this point also important because the European pillar of social rights already clearly states that everyone has the right to affordable and high-quality long-term care services. Although the Czech Republic has committed itself to fulfilling these rights, it is clear that this claim is currently not respected in our country, and long-term care is not included in legislation, except, of course, the type of bed care in the Health Services Act. Therefore, I would also like to ask for the inclusion of this point, which concerns not only tens of thousands of clients but also their families, their closest ones. As I have already said, please include this point as the first point after the points already included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. I am writing my first point after the points already included today and I would like to ask Mr Jiří Kobza. And before he comes to the counter, I will read the note: Mr Ivan Adamec, for working reasons all day long, Mr Andrej Babiš, for working reasons all day, Mr Jiří Horák from 9 to 16 - foreign travel, Mr David Kasal throughout the day for work reasons, Mr Ondřej Lochman from 9 to 14.45 for work reasons, Mrs Marie Pošarová from 17 to 9 hours for work reasons - until nine, yes, he expects us to be until morning until nine - Mr Jiří Slavík from 9 to 15.30 for health reasons, Ms Renata Zajíčková from 9 to 15.15 hours for work reasons, Mr Mikuláš Bek, Minister, for the whole working day, for all working reasons, Minister Jana Černochová for the whole day of the meeting - foreign travel, Minister Anna Hubáčková for the whole day for work reasons, Mr Jozef Síkela, Minister, for the whole working day and Minister Stanjura for the whole day of procedure. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, ministers, Prime Minister, Minister, guests, I would like to propose two points for this meeting. The first I would write: Helping Pakistan affected by severe flooding, because, as you know, last week, Pakistan suffered severe flooding in large areas, which affected about 350,000 people, who remained not only without shelter, but also without food, and especially without drinking water, because the flood area has one such special feature that there is a lot of water everywhere, but basically you don't have the water you can work with, which you can drink in, because everything is infectious, because the water actually flushes everything - from I would say animal products to chemical fertilizers, to various pesticides, herbicides and similar substances. So I would very much like to ask the House to discuss this matter, because it is very topical, I would say the emergency situation that Pakistan is experiencing right now, and I think that the Czech Republic should not stand aside, because a number of countries have already volunteered with help, and in particular as regards food supply, medicines, water disinfection products and any kind of basic emergency water infrastructure, that is, tanks in which water can be chemically processed, up to the aggregates that are able to give water that is clean to be able to be used for infants and hospital purposes. I believe that, although this matter remains somewhat out of focus in the faith of current events, it should not escape our attention, and I think that the House should express its support for this assistance, and I would like to place this point at the centre after the fixed points. The second point I would like to propose is the aggression of Azerbaijan against the Republic of Armenia. On September 12, Azerbaijani troops invaded the territory of the sovereign Republic of Armenia from the east in seven directions and occupied part of the territory until September 15, when a ceasefire began to apply, which was more or less forced by pressure from the surrounding countries. However, this aggression left 500 dead, left hundreds injured, and left behind 53 captured Armén who remained in the hands of the Azerbaijani army. This matter should also not be left to the attention, because, like any aggression, there must be a clear condemnation. Our government and the House should work to achieve peace from the ceasefire, when the armies of Azerbaijan will return beyond the internationally recognized border, when prisoners will be released, and when, of course, the damage caused by this attack will be compensated. I would like to remind you that this attack was carried out without declaring war, without declaring any state of hostility from Azerbaijan, and the already severely tested Armenia after the war over Náhorní Karabach received another rather unpleasant blow to deal with. So I would like to place this point on Friday as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u31	Yes, thank you, too. Does that mean the previous point, Mr. Ambassador, at the center of the fixed points as the first point? [[Yes.]] Yes, thank you. Beautiful afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. Mr Juchelka is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u32	Thank you very much too, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I have two points to load here. The first one is called the Current Situation at Overloaded Labour Offices, because this energy crisis and so on, and especially this government is driving citizens into a system of state social support and benefits in material distress, so from March of this year it is just an unbearable burden on the offices of work for their officials, for their workers, it has really lasted for over half a year. Until now, they have not seen any rewards at the employment offices, on the contrary, employees are on the verge of their strength and actually giving statements. And I would actually like to discuss this up-to-date situation at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, because it really concerns all of us, where labour offices are one of the pillars of the payment of all benefits of state social support, benefits in material distress, parental contributions, foster contributions, and so on. The second point is our amendment to the law concerning parental contribution, it is the House press 234, which we therefore have since 3 June when it was submitted to all Members. It aims to increase parental allowance from 300 to 400,000 crowns. I know that even the government coalition is thinking about it, but it's just some kind of conjecture, and there's no concrete step in this government being announced, no concrete action. So we propose 400,000 crowns. Currently, the Czech Republic, as we read today, has 18% inflation. It cannot be excluded that the resulting inflation will be even higher, and apart from the elderly, who are the most threatened group, the second and the next most threatened group of parents with young children. Of course, significant growth has seen a large range of basic cost of living, including energy, of course food and so on, and it is often overwhelming for those receiving parental contribution. We meet with price increases in all areas of human life. The extreme increase in prices is subject to electricity, gas and fuel, and by increasing prices, all households are affected, and those with small children, where only one parent usually works, or even single parents, are affected the most, and without the help of the state, their social situation will continue to deteriorate dramatically. So I would like to place this point as the first point during today, either the House press 234, as well as the information point called the Current Situation at the Overloaded Labour Offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. As a first point, did you propose that new point for today, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] And this is what you're proposing first? [[Yes, if he didn't pass.]] Okay, thank you. And now, Mr Marek Novák is on the list. I do not see the Member here, he has several applications, I do not see the Member, so it is Mr Patrik Nacher's turn, and I do not see him here either. Next is Mr Lubomír Brož's turn. Yes, we see him here. [[15.40 hours]] Before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. She apologizes to Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 3:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. for work reasons. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would like to propose the pre-position of House printing 108 as the third point of the block of first reading. This is the House press 108, the draft of the council of the City of Prague for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended, Act No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, as amended, and Act No. 77/1997 Coll., on State Enterprise, as amended. This law, which is a proposal of the Prague City Council, is of course necessary not only for Prague as such, but also for municipalities, cities, it also has the support of possible associations and other things. In essence, it proposes to strengthen the position of local authorities in the acquisition of property from the State in order that these local authorities have a real opportunity to acquire into their ownership from the State the immovable property located in their territory and which they need to perform their functions. This is especially for the construction of transport infrastructure, schools, social facilities, civic amenities, social housing, greenery or other activities. The current legislation on the treatment of unnecessary state property is set up so that, of course, the State can pass it on to third parties, but first of all it is an offer to organizational files, to state files. However, the law does not sufficiently regulate situations where immovable property needs, just as I said, a territorial self-governing whole for its activities. That's the bill's proposal. Then there is - in order to simplify it, then the territorial self-governing unit gets into competition with third parties in the form of legal entities. Of course, as an institution that is regulated in some legal way, it is far more disadvantaged in some matters such as public auctions. That is what the law regulates, which is why this law is so important. I don't think we should put it off for later. Of all the important things. There is therefore a need to regulate the management by clear rules. Municipalities, regions, from the institutions I would like to appoint for example the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the Association of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic, and therefore the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs alone, for a long time point out that this legal condition is not very well and it would need to be adjusted. Part of this law is a proposal proposing to establish a legal pre-emptive right for local authorities to material real estate that is located in their cadastral territory. In the event that the State decides to transfer such tangible immovable property in a corrupt manner, it is obliged to offer it primarily to the competent self-governing body. The second important point in this is that, in the case of state-owned enterprises, it is proposed that these state-owned undertakings be obliged to transfer the unnecessary property to the ownership of a territorially autonomous entity if they are interested in doing so. It can be said, therefore, that by this legal regulation, local authorities are essentially in the same position as the organisational units of the state or other state organisations in relation to state enterprises. Finally, it is important to say that the process of free transfer of assets to local authorities will not be affected by the proposed change. So this is the process of incorruptible transfer of property, which has its rules. Once again, I propose to assign this House press as a third point in the block of first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr David Štolpa is now signed in, Mr Lang will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a point on the House's agenda entitled Why the Government of Petr Fiala does not help companies with high energy prices. Unfortunately, the inclusion of this point is justified and justified. Reports from recent days and weeks, which certainly do not come only to me, say that more and more businessmen and companies are failing and shutting down their facilities due to high energy costs. That the government has decided to help people, although this aid has come late and is inadequate, that is one thing. After all, the executive manager of the Institute of Prevention and Debt Management Gabriela Vondrušová, in an interview for Lightning, said that some of the government's previous actions to address the crisis were rather populist and did not have such an impact on those who really needed it. There's no other way than to agree. Moreover, according to Gabriela Vondrušová, energy poverty threatens in the Czech Republic in some population groups, and the middle class already has financial problems. "The state must help improve the offer, otherwise it can wait for many more executions," said Daniel Hůle of People in Need in an interview. So even in humans, help is insufficient. But I'm going back to the companies. In recent months, two companies have failed and five more are sold only from the area of Czech meat processors. Bakers add nine more closed bakeries, where according to the Bakers' Association this year PEK Group bakery in Strakonice, Brandýs nad Labem, Šumperk, Mohelnická bakery, Benešov Bonte bakery or Boskovice bakery ended up. Bohumil Hlavatý, Executive Director of the Association of Bakers and Confectioners of the Czech Republic, said that then there is a larger number of bakeries, which were taken over by creditors, trying to operate them and getting their claims back somehow. The COOP chain then had to close down dozens of stores. Moreover, it is precisely those shops located in smaller villages, and for the locals it is one of the few ways to obtain basic food. Similarly, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic has also expressed itself. It stated that the competitiveness of Czech companies without state support, which other countries provided and further developed due to rising inflation and expensive energy, is declining sharply. As we know, loss of competitiveness means a severe blow to our open economy. The September dates of the Chamber of Commerce, which awaits a wave of redundancies, also confirm the serious market situation. By the end of the year, according to the Chamber of Commerce, 18 percent of Czech companies will be reduced, i.e. almost every fifth. Entrepreneurs are forced to reduce their employees because of rising prices, and mainly because of high energy prices. According to the data of the Chamber of Commerce, up to one third of large companies over 500 employees will proceed to redundancies. The worst situation is currently in the Ústí Region, where up to 303 workers from two companies may lose their jobs. The following is the Hradec Králové Region, where five companies reported their intention to release, and 210 employees can be fired. When I draw on my experience, I know at least three companies from my neighborhood that have ceased their operation in recent weeks due to high energy prices, and others are considering it in the coming weeks, or are really threatening it. I would therefore like to include this point on the programme as the first point after the points already included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u37	Like the first point? [[Yes.]] Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Hubert Lang will now appear, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u38	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to sign up for the agenda of today's meeting with a new item, which I called the Reform of the Foreign Police, the retrial of the Foreign Police as a branch of the Republic-wide movement, all in connection with the growth of illegal migration in the Czech Republic. I would like to include this as the first point after the fixed points, if possible. [[15.50 hours]] A number of issues have been raised here today by previous speakers from my colleagues from YES, from the SPD and from the Minister about one problem, which of the many problems the Czech Republic now has, and it is an increasing illegal migration that passes through the territory of the Czech Republic, and it is a problem to which the Czech Republic has responded lately, but it has responded and there has been a re-initiation of controls at the national borders with Slovakia. 28th to 29th. 9. Therefore, on the crossings and on the green section of the state border, the re-established control began. I'd like us to touch on a few things here so that we can figure out why I'm putting this point, because then I'd like to say some outline of the solution. We don't just want to criticize, but we also offer a solution to the situation. In the beginning, in order to be able at all to secure the re-establishing of checks at national borders on the Czech-Slovak state border section, we needed 560 officers on the first day of one service to complete 60 customs officers on the first shift. You've got a 24-hour cycle, which means these people have to take turns, and basically for a 24-hour service on any department like this, you need 3.5, 4.5 cops, because there might be some sort of illness, there might be some other stuff. So I want to hear from the cameras that we really needed more than 560 cops in the first week and 60 customs officers in one shift. The foreign police in the Czech Republic together have about 2,500, 2 700 police officers, who are still divided under the administration of 14 Regional Directorates, where at each Regional Directorate there is one branch of the Foreign Police, which is in charge of the individual Regional Director, and then there is the Directorate of the Foreign Police Service in Prague, which is responsible for protecting the external border in the Czech Republic, which is five international airports, which are intended to do so, plus the detention facilities for the location of foreigners and there are other units, such as the department that deals with - I don't know - the areas of documents, the department that is involved in monitoring smugglers of illegal immigration and so on. Those formations are controlled by the whole republic or they're left all over the Republic and there's about 1,500 of them. So if we cut off less than 3,000 police officers from that number, those who are meant to protect the external Schengen border, we're left with less than 1,000 police officers. They were the basis for re-establishing controls at national borders and, of course, in order to be able to cover those services at all, we needed customs officers, we needed police officers for other services - and here I am actually getting to the way it went on. After the first week, of course, there was also a security committee, we were asking questions. The truth is that the Minister took part in the Security Committee, there were top officials of the police, we got information, we asked some questions, but the information was actually heard in a narrow circle by several members of the Security Committee. What my colleague Vondráček said here, through Madam President, is what we would like to hear here so that we can talk about it so that we can raise certain questions so that, in fact, colleagues from the right side of the spectrum, who are experts in other areas, can hear this and we can look for solutions. I have been performing here for several times, because in the previous period, with the outbreak of the war conflict in Ukraine, we were plagued by one of the incoming crises, and these were Ukrainian refugees who came and received temporary visas. And even then, it turned out that from the time of peace, if I paraphrase it like this, our foreign police in numbers and structures, which were left to us after various reorganisations from a time when it was good, are not actually able to provide enough for certain activities. This means that if I overdo it again, the foreign police are unable to carry out all the tasks that are put on it from the point of view of internal security of the Czech Republic. We have certain options, we have a solution - I say, I am speaking here about the second or third time with the same point where I see a solution at the point that I propose here, that is: let us, fellow Members, colleagues, discuss the re-establishing of the Foreign Police Service as a nationwide agency, as a specialized body that will address illegal migration across the spectrum, not only by posting contingents to protect the external Schengen border, which we, as a Member State of the EU, are already doing this, not only to protect the external Schengen border within the Czech Republic, which we apply at five international airports, not only for a consistent stay check on foreigners or foreigners who move to the territory of the Czech Republic, but also in connection with the granting of residences, checks on residences and so on. Because if this is not done by a specialized service - and the introduction of checks at the Czech-Slovak border, there is, for example, a police officer from the tribal foreign police on shift, and to him today you have a customs officer, who is of course intended primarily to carry out other tasks - now according to Section 22 326/1999 Coll. We've taken on soldiers for a limited period of time, so yes, they may be part of some patrol, maybe they're moving on a green section of the state border, but in order to carry out special activities associated with the capture of migrants, with their identification, such as the implementation of dactyloscopes, entry into the records, and so on, in essence, it remains up to the few policemen who are from the tribal foreign police. The other cops are just like supporting files, and yet we miss the cops somewhere else. As part of the Security Committee, we also asked the Police President and the First Deputy if he felt that by putting police officers on the Czech-Slovak border in huge numbers, because after the first week, the number of officers fell a little bit, from the original number of 560 officers to one 12-hour shift, we got to 400 police officers and 60 customs officers and then we reduced the number to 300 police officers, 80 customs officers and 60 soldiers to one shift, the number of police officers falling and falling for a very clear reason, because the police officers were collected when I said this way to board the Slovak border from all over the territory of the Czech Republic - so logically the police President admitted that yes, in general, there may be a threat to security, general security on the territory of the Czech Republic, because there will not be so many patrols, logically instead of two patrols is placed on one patrol and so on the other. The truth is that so far in statistics after the Czech-Slovak border has been re-established, so statistically, God has not shown any increased criminal activity. The second thing I would like to mention here, to be correct: those foreigners who cross our territory, and again, I want it to be said here, are, in essence, foreigners who come from the Balkan road -- someone here has asked about it from the previous speakers -- especially the citizens of Syria, a country that is going through a war conflict, the war conflict is not over yet. During the previous period, the European Union entered into a kind of contract with Turkey, with President Erdogan, and there were over 3 million Syřan in Turkey. Now the political situation has changed, there has been inflation, there have been some political pressures, they have before the elections, and those Syřan, who by this time were actually guests in Turkey, are undesirable from the point of view of the Turek, they have some problems there, and they have gone on the march. They marched to Western Europe, where they have some diasporas, and the Czech Republic is one of the countries of their passageway. This means, if it is not the Syřan who have been or have not been in Turkey for some time now, it is the people who are coming to Serbia, Greece, Greece as the external Schengen border, which is virtually unobservable because it is made up of islands and there is a huge length of border, through Serbia they continue through Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic to Austria, Germany and then to some southern states where they have certain diasporas. This means that the question of how someone has been hovering here is not yet the Czech Republic's destination for these people, but it is only a pass-through destination. This means, those Syřan do not commit primarily crime in the territory of the Czech Republic, they only have an interest in getting somewhere further west through our republic. [[16.00 hours]] At the same time, what would allow them Czech foreign law or European law to apply for asylum in the territory of the Czech Republic or to apply for temporary visas - they do not use it. They do not use this for this reason, because if they ask for asylum in the Czech Republic, they would have to stay here and they could not ask for it until the request is resolved in another Member State of the European Community, and they do not want that. That means, we really are just a pass-through destination for them so far. What about it? A lot of things, the Minister of the Interior said here, yes, there are a lot of things that are in the negotiations, in the solution, there are certain steps taken by the Czech Republic. We asked the Security Committee, some questions have been answered to us, but again I also join the fact that we should discuss this here within the classic point in order to open the debate on this issue, and I think it is in the interest of both the left and the right, because it really concerns the security of the Czech Republic. I told you, of course, we have some solutions. I would just like to tell you how much it cost us, in fact, to reinstate the controls at national borders, according to the statements we received from the police leadership. The first week of re-establishing checks at national borders beyond Slovakia, when the huge number of police officers had to commute there, that is, the cost of petrol and food costs, the cost of some accommodation, cost us CZK 20 million - the initial estimated costs. If after a week we have found that there is really a huge capture of persons, it is more than 200 refugees every day, which is a huge amount, and it is, as my colleague Vondráček, through Madam President, maybe only 20, someone says 30 percent of the people who pass through our territory because the Czechoslovak border is 300 kilometers long and cannot really be built there for every 50 meters. This means that the number of these people can be multiple, and because they are captured even inland, logically it is larger. The funds were therefore estimated at CZK 20 million, with the fact that after 10 days we threatened to put an end to this activity at the border and the police would return, the re-establishing of the checks would be interrupted, and we would actually return to zero and 20 million CZK flew out of the chimney when I told the public. On this basis, it was said that this cannot be done. It also assessed the management of the police and the Ministry of the Interior that this is a security risk for the Czech Republic, and we decided to extend it for another 20 days. The Schengen Borders Code talks about the fact that a Member State itself can decide on the first 10 days and can still decide on those 20 days. The maximum is 30 days. That means another 20 days, starting from 28. Ninety-nine, here to 28th. 10. We therefore have a legislative framework where we will apply the re-establishing of controls at national borders and, in theory, on 28 October 2022, the re-establishing of controls at national borders should end. We didn't want to accept it, so we asked the Security Committee the first Deputy Interior Minister Mr Nováček what else can be done about it, because we have an example of practice from Austria, which is to some extent carrying out checks at the national borders between Germany and Austria, and please apply it for two years. He's been applying it for two years. It is possible to request notification when the Czech Government asks the European Council for further extension to the necessary period of time for which it is needed. We have committed the resolution of the Security Committee - and this went across the coalition, opposition - to the Ministry of the Interior to take steps towards this notification so that we continue to check on the Czech-Slovak border, to reinstate controls on the state border with Slovakia even after the end of that 20th day. Those 30 days together is estimated cost from the budget reserve of the state to CZK 110 million. That's a pretty big amount from my point of view. So in the moment that on October 28, we would clear out the border crossings and the green state border again and actually go back to zero, and here's why I would want us to open this point, because, of course, I'm proposing a solution. I will only give consideration to colleagues here whether it would really be worth it, in the context of the fact that we have a migration crisis that does not just end, we have a torch of freedom that from Africa is slow and sure to travel and arrive in Europe, it is 20 to 50 million people who are somewhere in the Horn of Africa ready to march, we have an ongoing war, a conflict of Russian-Ukrainian, when, of course, now in the autumn, especially when there is this crazy bombardment, those people will flee from the point of hit, fighting and ask for visas for temporary protection again in the territory of the Czech Republic. I have registered that temporary protection visas for Ukrainian arrivals should end in February, but we have already registered that the European Union is saying that they will be extended by a year. It can only be extended for another two years and other people can be coming. In the context of all this, I believe that if we started a discussion on the re-establishing of the foreign police as a branch of the nationwide field, we could re-allocate those forces and resources from the territorial police under the administration of the Directorate of the services of the foreign police Prague. Nothing would change about protecting the external Schengen border, which means protecting five international airports at the external Schengen border in the Czech Republic, nothing would change on the contingent of our police officers who are being broadcast, because they are already under the wings of the Directorate of Foreign Police Services in Prague, the external Schengen border. Nothing so complex would change in the detention facilities for the placement of foreigners, which are primarily intended for foreigners other than the citizens of Syria and refugees from Ukraine, we would only reunite these departments under one administration, and I believe that it would occur in particular... it would certainly reduce the costs that we have to spend today by sending police officers from one end of the Republic to the other end of the Republic. Local and factual knowledge is always important in the police in general. If you send a transport officer from Cheb to the Czech-Slovak border somewhere to Zlinsko to guard some border crossing or some section of the green state border, the policeman will be unhappy there. He doesn't know the local conditions, he can't navigate there properly, and basically, the service in this place is half, maybe a third. This means, certainly, that if we had a firm building there - whether it would be called units at border crossings or simply in some first place - it would certainly be welcomed by the mayors of the Czech Moravian border, it would be welcomed by ordinary citizens who have recreational facilities in these places and so on, because it is always good to have at least some police there. These police officers might be primarily involved in public order, but they would also be in charge of demarking, protecting the state border, and so on. They'd be local, well-known, they'd be environmental, we wouldn't have to move forces and resources from the other end of the republic, and it would definitely be cheaper. Another thing that would bring about: there would certainly be no restriction on internal security. That wouldn't happen, because we wouldn't have to pull those forces and resources back to where we were on fire. It may happen to us, my friends, that such a situation may occur on the Austrian section of the national border. The longest section of the state border is with Poland. In fact, as part of the reforms, we gradually reduced these officers, as we reduced the foreign police, until we completely reduced it to the most basic minimum, so we left these stations everywhere. We've left the buildings, we've left, we've released these people, or those people have gone to the posts, or we've gone to other police files, and we're unable today, we're not capable of being like the Czech Republic, and that's another reason why we should talk about it here, protect the territory of our national borders. We just can't secure the entire perimeter of the state border. If we throw all our forces and resources into the section of the Czechoslovak state border, which showed also exercises and there are evidently entries about it, we are able to endure it for about a week, and after a week the police will bleed out inland, the customs service will bleed out, the army will bleed out. Mrs Černochová - I have registered - the Minister said that they lent us the army, but only for a limited number of days, because there are certain threats to our infrastructure within the Czech Republic, and the army is not primarily intended to guard as foreign police or border police an earlier green section of the state border. So are the other tasks of the Customs Administration by law, it's all just a substitute. [[16.10 hours]] And the third point - if I think we should re-establish this department, and it is certainly worth it to us, my friends, is that we would achieve some sort of systematicity again in the performance of the service, we would have uniform training, we would have uniform equipment for these policemen and we would retain expertise, because you need expertise on people who work with thermovisional means, you need expertise directly at the border crossing concerning travel documents, granting residences, visas - the foreign law is complex, the asylum law is complex and I think that this would ensure significant security. From all the things I have mentioned here, I hope you will take this into account, and I would ask all of you to consider including my point in the agenda for today's meeting, and, as I said, Madam Vice-President, as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková is now registered, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. And before I give the floor to the Member, I'll read the apologies. Petr Gazdík apologizes from 19 a.m. to 23.45 p.m. for work reasons, Mr Kobza apologises from 19 a.m. to 9 a.m. for work reasons, Lubomír Metnar apologises from 17 a.m. to 9 a.m. for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we are very slow here, and I will not tire you long, but since it is my dear duty, and I take it as a task that is really close to me, always from time to time to draw attention to the demands of children and youth of the Czech Republic, which repeatedly and repeatedly, for the last time on 31 August 2022, ask that we start dealing with a bill which would set up a child rights defender, known as the simple name of the children's Ombudsman. So I want to carry out this task and raise again the Parliament's 262 press, which is here. I have waited quite a long time to see if we agree across the political spectrum when it comes to this issue, only since June 2022, even though I gave it how you can track it, I suspect that we have already served it in the House system in October or November 2021. In the meantime, I have discussed with many of you, and I think that the situation has evolved by bringing our views and the legislative anchoring of this institute closer together. However, I am not always in agreement with some: to wait - and I think that, fortunately, most of you are not - to wait for the government to prepare its own bill during this hectic period, when there is quite a good proposal prepared under my direction by the legislation of the Office of Human Rights Commissioner, which is also at the Office of the Government, which could be a carrier of this change, with, of course, a comprehensive amendment which, if the content is preserved, and here the children and the young people under the age of 18 also draw attention to it - that is, they want a really independent institution, not to exist a small one - and not just because of their age, but because of their competences - a children's Ombudsman who will not want it. I think that the easiest legislative way would really be to open the House's press 262 and then change it as part of the second reading to match the ideas of those who draw attention to the current situation, that is, not to set up the headquarters, or the headquarters in Prague, which we wanted to do precisely for the sake of the children and the fact that there are central authorities, ministries dealing with the issue of children - the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health - basically there are many more reasons for the centre to be in Prague, but these are things that should or should not arise, so there I think that the compromise, although not quite easily, can be done. Another matter is the competence that should be maintained to the extent that we propose in the Houses of the Press 262, that is, extending competences, for example, to allow the Ombudsman to enter the custody procedure, of course to initiate it, to enter it, or in some cases to contact the Constitutional Court with a request to repeal part of the legislation, including a law which contradicts conventions concluded in the area of child rights. When I recapitulate it, I cannot really, with my own better will, find any reason to wait, which would justify the fact that water has closed over this law, and the only people who care about it are basically journalists who, from time to time, have asked one of us what we have put forward - especially those questions I receive, but also, as I know, also the coalition colleagues, i.e. the MPs - will raise or apply a question to them and to me about how far it is and when we will begin to deal with it - in brackets - finally. I have answered evasively, now I answer openly, that I hope that one day this Chamber of Deputies will answer the call, and this law, which is not at all legislatively difficult - it seems a little primitive to me, because it is a few provisions - so it will open it up and, as part of the discussion, in order that children and young people under the age of 18 can participate in governance and can learn it, so it will actually lead to the end that it will be approved and passed on to discuss the Senate, which certainly has such a political appeal to us again, and I will not consider it ironically. So after this introduction, which is equal to justifying the need to include, I will not go back to what would be boring not only for you, but also for me to reinterpret the provision here after the provision, to justify and argue why it is written in the proposal like this, and not how - but so far nothing like this has arrived here, even as far as I know, at least until yesterday. There were suggestions on how to extend the Act on the Ombudsman's amendment, which would include as one of the other representatives of the Ombudsman a new institution of the Ombudsman, or next to it, which I cannot imagine well enough, except that in the amendment the Act on the Ombudsman would also be renamed by the name of the Act on the Ombudsman and the Act on the Rights of the Children, or that the law would have to be amended - one part would have been about the Ombudsman, there would have been some changes, which we wanted to do in the last term, and the second part would have been about, and that would have included the current House press 262, in the past we have done it several times. So there's nothing stopping us but our political will to raise our hand for it. That is why I propose that we place this House press on Friday as firmly placed points, with the fact that we will also consider this to be a symbolic opening of a matter which may not yet be burning many of you. Those kids still can't vote on us in the next election, but they can remember us in the next parliamentary elections. Because, as I repeatedly had them here, about three times, we had a seminar on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, especially children who are now sixteen, seventeen years old, who will be voters really soon, and I think they legitimately ask for what they have in other countries, with the exception of three countries, which unfortunately also belong to the Czech Republic. [[16.20 hours]] And I think that it is now - she will never be the best situation for such a law - that there is now a situation when, after the annual submission, it is about a year ago, the House could actually deal with this proposal. And the excuse or the justification that it doesn't go that fast doesn't sound very convincing here anymore. So once again, Madam Vice-President, I recapitulate my proposal that this Parliamentary press number 262, the Bill on Children's Rights, should be included on this Friday, October 14, 2022 for the already firmly ranked points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u41	First point, I suppose. [[Member of the War: First item, thank you.]] Yes, thank you. Mr Richard Brabec will now appear, Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u42	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, the lonely member of the government, my colleague - but thank you for this, we appreciate every individual who dares to come from the government among us, and we need to appreciate it. [[Minister of Health to War.]] [[Minister Wark off microphone: Quality is important, not quantity.]] Yes, yes, that's what we'll tell Prime Minister Fial. But I also come up with an offer of high-quality novels and I will not be - actually we have a Minister of Transport here too, I'm sorry, I missed you not being in those benches - quality novels that I have defended here several times. I wasn't successful, but since I'm a relatively tough creature, I'll try again with you, even with myself. This thing is very up-to-date, and I'm sure you'll remember that because I think I first performed with her here in December last year, so maybe we'll soon celebrate a nice year of trying to do this novel. But what's most interesting is that I've already been asked about her by some members of the government coalition, which I won't reveal because I would probably give them a kiss of death, and they asked how to do it, and I was happy to advise them that just now it's enough to completely approve this novel. It is the Parliamentary press 154, as I said, perhaps six or seven times already defended here, and it is an amendment to the Act on emission allowance trading, to put it simply. Exactly the name of the amendment to the Act on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading conditions, that's how it's sophisticated, but it's basically a popular amendment to the Act on emission allowance trading. It is about how to change and simplify the flow of money that comes from that large package from the sale of emission allowances, so that they partly or mostly end up in the state budget and it was possible to use it better for needs where we can all agree that today the state needs them most, i.e. for the need for social compensation of the effects of crazy energy prices. That's why I'm always surprised, and I'm terribly surprised that the government coalition is repeatedly rejecting it, because on the contrary, it offers it money for the state budget, where, as we all see, it is now extremely lacking. But it's probably because Brabec from the opposition is offering it, although I think, given the growing interest, the maggot is already drilling doubt in some members of the government coalition that it's probably not that stupid just because it's being offered by someone from the opposition. The real point is that the Modernization Fund, where today begins - or for more than a year now, and the Modernization Fund has been negotiating with our government, and I think that it has been very successfully negotiated - that tens of billions of crowns are being gathered there, so I think that the Minister of Finance has already discovered or found that it is not so easy to get the Modernization Fund out of it, because the use of the Modernization Fund is not just the will or the will of the Czech Government, and not even of the Czech Parliament, but it is a matter that the European Commission and the European Investment Bank obviously have under it, because the Modernization Fund and the money in it is money from European emission allowances and only part of it is the so-called Czech ones. Because it is very difficult to divide which allowances come from the Czech Republic and which are European ones, and we managed to negotiate a significant part of Europe about two years ago, that is, it is not only true Czech allowances. And now there's a situation where the money is stockpiling in the Modernization Fund. Of course, there are also hundreds of projects against this, but we still probably agree that it is important to tell ourselves how to use the money, because of course the money is primarily investment, i.e. for investment projects, but unfortunately, as the government does not help businesses, we can easily overcome the situation that some businesses or many dozens of businesses will not even live to live up to their investment. And that is why it is important at this point because the Modernization Fund will be able to be used until 2030, or money will be collected there until 2030, and even further years after 2030 it will be possible to use it, so of course there is a possibility of how some of the money that would be drawn into the Modernization Fund will be put into the Czech state budget and better used according to the will of this government, the Czech Government and the Czech Parliament. This amendment, which first changes the ratio, part of the money, allocation of allowances that goes to the Czech state budget and the Modernization Fund, also simplifies and extends the possibility of using money from emission allowances in the state budget. So we're really in a situation where we're offering very good, simple, easy solutions as opposition, and we're constantly being rejected. What they're rejecting, in fact, nobody's gonna say anything about it in the finals. If he had at least rejected us, but it wasn't worth the mention to the coalition that maybe she would have sent us straight with it and we could have discussed that the point would have been opened in the framework of the amendment. But I'm gonna try it for the eighth time, the ninth time, the tenth time, and it's gonna be okay. At least I believe it. So, Madam President, once again, I am proposing the inclusion of House press 154, the amendment to the Act on the terms and conditions for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. I would like this point to be included as the second point after the already firmly placed points. And thank you very much for sticking it all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. Mr. Jiří Mašek is now signed in, and Mrs. Jana Hanzlíková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u44	Thank you. Madam President, fellow ministers, colleagues. I would be among those who propose a point concerning illegal migration. I'll make a brief statement. This item would be called Illegal Migration, information from the Minister on border guard with the Slovak Republic after 28. 10. 2022. [[16.30 hours]] As we have heard from the previous speakers here, President Okamura has dealt with this issue here in the House since the summer. What I've been picking up from our side, maybe six. 9. 2022 when attempting to include a point in the agenda of the meeting it was Radek Vondráček, who also spoke here today, and it was because he received information and questions from the mayors of individual municipalities about the significant movement of illegal migrants in the region. This is where the Home Secretary replicated him, and it seemed a little unfair to me because he knew that Radek Vondráček couldn't get back to him unless the point was open. So here I would like to stand up for Radek Vondráček, because what he said here was true, and to debate some precise definitions of terms such as border control and the like or patrol at the border comes from the position of Home Secretary to misleading. That is why I would like to address here what was going on on the last Security Committees, because the Home Secretary has referred here to whether we are passing on information that we are informed about everything on the Security Committee. So now I would like to say some information to you about how it was on the Security Committees and what opposition was in order for the situation at the border with the Slovak Republic to improve, what the opposition has done and what resolution has been proposed, which has been adopted gradually. For example, 15. 9. We have asked and proposed, as opposition to the MEPs for YES to the members of the Security Committee, a resolution which sounded that the Security Committee is asking the Czech Government to initiate joint negotiations with Turkey in the framework of the Presidency in the European Union to reduce the migration wave, because that is where we named the majority of those migrants coming from Turkey. I am pleased to learn here that Prime Minister Fiala has dealt with Mr Erdogan in some way, but bilateral negotiations, whether by telephone or by meeting briefly here at a meeting in Prague, cannot, of course, replace what we wanted as a Security Committee, and that means initiating negotiations as the President of the State of the European Union, joint negotiations between the Member States of the European Union and Turkey. I'm sure it's worth something, but it's worth it. And if we don't stop the migration from Turkey, we're gonna have a big problem, and I'm gonna get there. So we initiated this as opposition Members, the Coalition Members voted with us, and the resolution was adopted unanimously. It was 15. 9. 6. 10. on the committee we received with satisfaction information from the Police of the Czech Republic and other components about how it was from 28. to 29. 10. start border surveillance according to the rules of the Schengen Borders Code. I'm not going to repeat it here, but these numbers are currently 310 police officers, 60 customs officers, and 80 short-term soldiers saying that Minister Jana Černochová said that it would really just be a short-term bailout. All of this represents the money, as my colleague Lang here said, and that is for the first 10 days and the extension of another 20 days, so that is a total of 28. 10. these are funds of CZK 110 million. And it is my question, and my point is going to be what it will be after, because we do not have the strength or the means to prolong border control according to the rules of the Schengen Borders Code, it is impersonally unsustainable for us, the Police of the Czech Republic currently has a base of 5 000 police officers, and it is also a big financial problem. So the Minister's been painting this place a little pink, so we don't have to worry about getting through all this, but we're gonna make it to 28. 10. when even the dumbest smuggler realizes, of course, that when we have a border guard, it will slow down for a while, which has also been shown by the capture of migrants and smugglers, which in the first days before they passed on the information, were quite high, and now we applaud a little that they fall to lower values, but it is understandable on their part and they will be happy to wait for the deadline after 28. 10. So it was one of the resolutions where we asked the government to provide information on how it would be after 28 in the framework of border surveillance. 10. The gentlemen present could not answer that, neither the Minister nor the President of the Police nor his first deputy could answer that. We were suggesting that there should be control - and now someone will take me at my word if it is technically well named - but to continue at border crossings at least a random check. This was rejected there with the fact that according to the rules of the Schengen Borders Code it is all or nothing, or what we are doing now, but that random checks, that it is not on the agenda of the day. And oddly enough, today, it has appeared in the press that the Minister of Interior Faeserová from the Federal Republic of Germany wants to step up the random controls at the border with the Czech Republic. There, even the CDU/CSU conservative Union wanted to renew its controls in full under the Schengen Code. Madam Secretary has eased it for these checks to be strong, but random, or numerous random. So in Germany, we can't talk about it yet, or I expect what the Minister will come up with, and I hope that if that point is approved, we will get some information. The information that the Minister will act on this Thursday and Friday at the Council of Ministers of the Interior and that he will bring us information does not fully satisfy me, because when we see how individual states behave about this, we see how we have not been able to agree on a country-by-state basis, we cannot do this with energy, I do not expect that after dealing with the migration crisis since 2015, when we have not properly moved on, that we can do this during this Thursday and Friday. I wish I could, but I'm not completely naive about this. So the information that the Minister will come up with after Thursday and Friday's negotiations, in advance, I'm afraid he won't be satisfactory for us. We also adopted resolution 6. 9. where we asked the Government to negotiate with the governments of Hungary, Slovakia and Austria on compliance with the readmission agreements. For your information, if you're not moving in, then if a runner is caught near a state border and can be deduced that he's crossed the state line from a particular state, then we should have a chance to return such a migrant to the original state. And I'll tell you from the information we got from the Home Office, how it's going and how it's not going. Well, oddly enough, it's going well with Germany. We are very helpful, we respect the readmission agreements, and only this year we have accepted back 1,300 refugees captured somewhere near the border in Germany. On the contrary, our fellow Slovák approach us a little differently and from some of the 1 455 migrants we tried to return, the number, the number, which they took back from us, is number 55 and 1,400 left in the Czech Republic, they did not accept them. Colleague Lang has already talked about how to proceed afterwards, because most of them here do not ask for asylum, so they will be instructed to be expelled from the Czech Republic or to leave the Czech Republic within 30 days. And basically, we just have to admit that we're just trying to get them to infiltrate the target state in some way so they don't come back to us. So we are now in the problem that 1,300 returned to us by the Němec, 1,400 were not taken back from us by the Slovák, which is why we called on the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss the Readmission Agreements with Slovakia, Hungary and Austria, so that they would be valid and respected by all states. I think it's also a long run. And even in this opposition motion for a resolution on the Security Committee, colleagues from the coalition supported us, so thank you very much for that. Furthermore, we called on the Government of the Czech Republic to make another resolution; again, the 6. 10. when we called on the Government of the Czech Republic to renew and modernise the agreement on police cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, because there colleagues from the Police of the Czech Republic actually admitted that the agreement is obsolete and is far from functional. [[16.40 hours]] And the last point that we presented in the attempt to drag it through, in quotation marks, in a resolution, failed, and it is a pity that it failed, was the point at which we called on the Minister of the Interior to support the amendment of Mrs Vildumetzová in the framework of the budget adjustment for 2022 for the Police of the Czech Republic, where she proposed to strengthen the budget by CZK 600 million, and it is here that the money will also be needed to carry out these extraordinary tasks that the Police of the Czech Republic are waiting for. And that's where I'd really like to put in a good word when we're discussing this, even if the amendment wasn't supported by the committee, so we could rethink this place and try across. The House will approve the money to the police because it's important from my point of view. Then I have some information on how it looks today with the number of migrants in the years. Migration according to the police report or the report of the Ministry of Interior was monitored from 2009 to today with the fact that illegal migration to the Czech Republic was relatively stable between 2009 and 2014 and was around 3,500 refugees per year. In 2015, this is the Mutti Merkel period, when everyone wanted to go to Germany, increased to 8,600 migrants in 2015 to decrease to an average number of around 5,000 a year. And this year, in the first half of the year, it reached 12,200 migrants or around September, so we see that there is almost twice the migration compared to the famous year 2015, when the migration wave was actually experienced by the whole of Europe. Migration in our country is mainly transit, and the police evaluate the migration, when 2,600 migrants passed through here in 2015, so in the first half of this year it was about 8,000. For this reason, I would like us to pay great attention to illegal migration, because if the Němec succeed in achieving the perfect security of the border, as they promise, as the pressure is on in Germany, and we will have migrants coming back in thousands in the framework of the Readmission Agreements that we, oddly enough, respect in contrast to Slovakia, will no longer be so easy and we will not be able to rely on them to register here, give them 30 days to leave the Republic, and they will disappear somewhere in Europe. So if they don't get lost, the problem will be growing here, and we need to really improve the border security, renew the agreement with the Slovak Republic and ask there hard for Slovakia to comply with the readmission agreements. And the situation must be improved, or black Petr will stay with us in the future. So from my point of view, Mr. Rakušan, as minister, words and actions differ a little bit. He doesn't see the problem. He promises that everyone will agree that everything will be within Europe, whether at the meetings of the ministers of the interior or at the negotiations with Turkey, that the influx of the migrants will be stopped, but it really is not that simple. If it succeeds, it will be over the horizon of many months, and we must respond immediately. So I would like to return immediately to the start and my point is specific: Illegal migration, information of the Minister of Border Security with the Slovak Republic after 28. 10. 2022. What are we going to do when the standard security according to the Schengen Borders Code is completed? And I would like to place that point, if possible, on Friday as the third point after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u45	děkovat you, Mr Mr Peštová, and now Mrs Věra Adámková is signed in and Mrs Berenika Peštová is ready. [[Mrs Hanzlíková reminds herself of the performance.]] Sorry, I've already prepared you, of course Mrs. Jana Hanzlíková was previously registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask for a new point in today's programme, this is a point on the Critical Situation in Child Protection and I will ask for the inclusion of this point as the first point after the points already firmly included. The Department of Social Protection for Children is long-term staff undersized and the measures taken so far have barely been shown in practice. The current situation is that up to 50 per cent of workers are missing in some departments. Situations cannot be increased because infinitely long announced selection procedures for these positions often remain completely unanswered. This situation, of course, has a very negative effect on existing workers who are overloaded, and it is no wonder that I do not have to say that workers in the OSPODs have a really mentally very difficult profession, especially at a time when there are major problems in families. The adverse personnel situation in the OSPODs deteriorated even further by increasing the number of clients that occurred in the context of the covid pandemic, when families were in very non-standard situations that they had to deal with. At present, the number of OSPOD clients is increasing. It is now particularly in the context of the many problems and adverse social situations that families are getting into because of energy poverty, price increases and other problems. Of course, these crisis situations are logically reflected in the functioning of families and the escalation of their problems. This condition is also monitored by the SPOD Professional Chamber, which warned the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that the exercise of social law protection for children in the Czech Republic is really seriously threatened in some departments, because OSPOD workers are in short supply for a long time, and the situation is not improving, but on the contrary. The problem for these workers is also the long-term factors of this profession, such as undignified social status, salary understatement and professional uncertainty, which arises due to repeated changes in the question of qualification assumptions and the fulfilment of specific competence. Since the operation of the OSPOD is actually one of the most important agendas of the state, as it concerns the protection of vulnerable children and their families, it is necessary to ensure its stabilisation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as the government, has to deal with this, because it can happen that we can get into a situation that will not have anyone to carry out such an important agenda. We discussed this topic last week on the Committee on Social Policy and all Members, but also representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have come to the conclusion that the situation is serious and short-term solutions are not very much at the Ministry of Labour. Therefore, I call for this new point to be included, and I will repeat once again, it is a point called Critical Situation in Child Welfare Departments, and so please include it as the first point after the already firmly placed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u47	Tonight? Yes, thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková is now signed in. And Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, some things are evergreen, and this is also my request for you to once again focus on improving the condition of severely ill people with leukemia. I don't quite understand the aversion of why we couldn't discuss this law here, why you're so opposed to it, what you're afraid of. But I would like to point out that by moving this solution away, this is Parliament's Press 162, which, and I would like to point out to my colleagues from the coalition, signed by the Minister or your coalition colleague - and I think you have chosen a well-chosen Minister for Health, an experienced doctor who knows what he's doing - so you're not even listening to it? What else do you want? To have those sick kids come in here with a bare head? For their parents to come? I know the smile you have now comes from ignorance, because otherwise you wouldn't be able to do it. I don't think it's out of arrogance, I wouldn't like that very much. [[16.50 hours]] Very please, let us discuss an amendment to the transplant law that would allow, and I repeat that again, so that voluntary anonymous bone marrow donors, if there are complications requiring incapacity for work, get a full salary as it is for donors of other organs, which are subsequently transplanted. They are completely anonymous donors, with high moral credit, and I must say that, given the time you have postponed the negotiation of this law, four donors have already checked out. And I guarantee you, if it were a member of your family, you'd be there on your knees to get them back on track, but it wouldn't be possible. Please, think nicely about the health of these sick people, which may also be people in your family, they may also be children, and let us discuss this law. We may be able to improve it, and we will certainly have a clear conscience, because we have done what we could for these people because we have not taken the opportunity for them to have a suitable recipient in the register of anonymous donors. I'm warning you again that the bone marrow donor is anonymous, he doesn't know who the bone marrow is, and I wish you all didn't need this, I'm saying it for the next time. And I have to say, from my point of view, it is already a contempt for human life, and that is probably not what a Member should have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u49	Madame, please, where do you want to put this point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u50	Since I do not want to delay this honored House, I would ask for the first item on Thursday, October 13th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u51	Thanks for the clarification, too. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now appear and the next is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's so rusty when almost nobody's here, and I'm talking to those almost empty benches. [[Responses from the right.]] Thank you for having at least two MPs over there on me... three, three, still not enough, I think, but that's okay. In any case, I would like to place a point that is called or which I have called the appearance of Minister Síkela on the Assembly of the Confederation of Industry. I think that not only me, but honored colleagues would also be interested to know what Minister Síkela was going to say by directing big companies to act like small and medium-sized. I think that if you've looked into the penal code, Section 364 - if you're lawyers, it's certainly not a problem for you - it clearly states what inciting a crime is. And even on Sunday's Party, when I was watching, President Pekarová Adamová herself said that she would like to hear this explanation, so I take her at her word, and that is why I want this point to be the first point here, and I want to hear the explanation from Minister Síkela, what did he mean by that. And I can't forget that he was essentially presenting some semi-finished product he didn't believe in, and he still explains that someone should behave differently than he really is. I want to include this point as the first point, and I would like to hear an explanation as to whether it really instigated a crime, and if so, it should be done by law enforcement authorities. And it was very sad that the Prime Minister was sitting in the audience, who had gone over it beautifully, and he didn't notice it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u53	Thank you, too. Did you mean the first point today? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Mrs Margita Balaštíková is now next to prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u54	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask you to include a new item in the programme entitled Re-evaluation of some of the newly proposed measures in agriculture by the European Union. At a time when we are facing a huge rise in food prices and a shortage of certain types of food is beginning, I see it as important to rethink some new EU regulations that directly affect the yields of agricultural activity and the cost-effectiveness of agricultural production, because Eurostat and EFSA have recently published evidence that agriculture is involved in greenhouse gas leakage up to 5%, please nicely, from a global leak. China's and the United States' industries form a major proportion of the exhalates of these gases, but they do not commit themselves to reducing these gases in any way. So everything we're dealing with to eliminate this threat, we're basically doing it for nothing. In the context of this publication, it seems to me that addressing European agriculture in this sense is an outrage. Again, on the basis of a technically unfounded requirement that would de facto cause a significant and fatal reduction in the yield of sensitive crops, EU representatives decide on new regulations that will once again devastate agriculture throughout the EU, but those who import it here, which are the United States, will not be affected. Even the comments of organic farmers throughout Europe did not help, although we are fighting for them, when they warned that they would not be able to plant farm fertilizers with orbs and that even the Orba would suppress cultural crops and weeds by mechanical means, because they cannot actually use herbicides, and the ban on winter orbs would bring them many times greater economic losses by rapidly reducing the yield of sensitive spring crops. [[unintelligible]] It is also striking that some researchers have lent themselves, due to the pressure of some engineers, to the unilateral enforcement of the ban on winter orbs without conclusive and serious experiments, which are normally made on specific crops in the Czech Republic. I believe that now that we are the President of the countries of the European Union, we should be the leader in the revision of the new measures, and, given the published documents, I am asking for a new point on this issue. This item, entitled Re-evaluation of some of the newly proposed measures in agriculture by the EU, is to be included as new items. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u55	That means, are you asking to include this point as a fixed point for today as the first point? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u56	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Minister, I would like to propose to include a point on the agenda of this meeting called Police and Firefighter Plates. Today, here from my colleagues, who focused on and proposed a point that affects illegal migration, there has already been a lot of mention here. It was said here that there was a reopening of checks on the Czech-Slovak border, where police officers are currently on this border, are customs, and now that it has been extended, newly also soldiers. My call within the Minister of the Interior is because yesterday or these days there was an article where 300 police officers want to pay back their money is hundreds of millions of crowns, and it is mainly about what we constantly stress here that not only does overtime and what police officers are doing above and beyond, so they are most likely not to get paid, but above all, that we keep saying that it is nice that you and the trade unions have agreed that as of September 1st, they will increase police officers and firefighters who are in civilian life, so they will increase by 10 percent, but as it sounds from police officers and firefighters who are in civilian life, the means have not been able to do so. That means it's coming from the Plata chapter, it's coming from the Reward chapter, so we practically said, "We're gonna raise you 10 percent, but take it from the chapter you're approved for this year. I am therefore convinced that this is very unfair to these groups. [[17,00 hours]] It is clear that, at the beginning, when the controls were re-established, there were 570 police officers at the border, now that there was an extension, and so the government was able to approve that there would be soldiers, so the number had already decreased to 310 police officers. Well, why do you think that is? Of course, it's very good that soldiers will help, too, but it's clear that if the border is helping - and the service is 24-hour - 570 cops, then the cops must be missing somewhere. Well, where's he missing? Missing in cities, municipalities and regions. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the Minister of Finance, has told us here several times that we do not propose amendments to some of the House's press. We, as the YES movement, have tabled many amendments that affect the amendment to the draft budget for 2022. One of these amendments concerns police officers and firefighters in order to receive overtime paid so that they can have stabilisation contributions to receive, where appropriate, remuneration, and I am very surprised that the Committee on Budgets, which has already dealt with these amendments, has not supported this amendment. At the same time last week, he was a security committee. The Security Committee has called on the Home Secretary - I have no idea how the Home Secretary is not fighting for his cops and his firefighters - to get the funds. So I was very surprised that some coalition Members in the Security Committee - and this is a good thing - voted in favour of the Minister of the Interior demanding that police officers and firefighters receive these funds in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. I have to say, no one knows about it, because we're constantly getting information about how great everything is, how everything is watered by the sun, how much money there is, and then the feedback that we're getting... So first it's said that the police won't take the stabilization allowance, and then suddenly an article in the media comes out that 90 percent of the cops are going to take the stabilization allowance. The fact that we are constantly reduced by the number of police officers is caused by these very steps that are being done, and it has been said here and it is constantly said that, at this time and at this time, security is particularly one of the most important areas in which this government should put its funds. So I think the Home Secretary should finally say how it really is, because he keeps saying that everyone has everything, and then, of course, the article comes out, how many cops are dissatisfied, and he wants hundreds of millions of crowns. And if he says he's going to pay the cops, or those overtime hours, CZK 100 million, I assume that everyone - and the Home Secretary should know twice - that if I'm in a state of about 40,000 cops in uniform, 10,000 cops - civilians plus I have about 10,000 firemen, who are also in uniform, and 1,000 in civilian, then every normal person will take that number, divide it by that amount, and it will cost him approximately CZK 2,500. After all, this amount can never be paid for overtime by police officers and firefighters, who are not only helping to re-establish checks on the Czech-Slovak border, but who helped at the time of the covid, helped in Hřensko and other events that, of course, need to be dealt with in terms of country safety and the protection of the population. And I am sure that my colleague Jiří Mašek opened it today and I am convinced that as the Minister of the Interior also spoke here today, Vít Rakušan, who says that illegal migration has started to be dealt with - in my opinion, it has started to be settled late, it should have been a long time ago, and especially now I have concerns about one thing, and that is that we have now used what we can in the framework of legislation, and that is that it will therefore be possible to re-establish checks for 30 days, now it has extended by 20, that is 30 days, that is until some 26 October, I do not know if I say exactly that date, but first of all it is that we can use only 30 days without notification. And I am convinced that the Czech Government should have asked for this notification long ago, because if it didn't and it will wait for the notification, please tell me what will happen on November 26th. [[October?]] As of 26 November, if the notification is not within the EU, the re-establishing of controls will end and I am not at all convinced of the way in which the Minister of the Interior will deal with it. [[October?]] He hasn't answered that yet. All he told us was that he told us he hadn't asked for the notification yet. So the Security Committee immediately called on him to do so as soon as possible, but as I had the opportunity to listen carefully to the Minister of the Interior today, so that he would have asked for the notification, he did not speak to us today at all and did not share the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We will continue to discuss proposals to amend the agenda. Next is Mr Marek Novák, and it will probably refer to paragraph 83, Act No. 65. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll help you. I have five applications. Now I'm going to talk to the first two, and then I'm going to call you the third, the fourth, the fifth, so that you can note and keep it in order. So now one and two. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby ask you to pre-classify paragraph 83. This is the printing of 246, the amendment to Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances. I would like to be the first item on the agenda for this meeting. It is a parliamentary proposal from a group of Members, which has already been discussed by the Government, and nothing prevents us from discussing it here. [[17.10 hours]] In this context, I also ask you to submit item 86, print 257, amendments to Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on the regulation of advertising, and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 486/1991 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended, as a second point after already firmly assigned to this meeting, which is actually related to this regulation. It is a restriction on advertising concerning nicotine bags. The sale of nicotine bags to underage schoolchildren is really big. It affects the health of our children and at the Ministry of Education there is already information about the difficulties of primary school teachers, who in the form of mass letters ask parents to cooperate in combating this disorder, as well as sports clubs. The Minister of Health must, on the basis of the opinions of his professional workplaces, know about the undisputed harmfulness of these products, that there are known cases of nausea of pupils in teaching as a result of the use of nicotine bags or nicotine overdoses, but unfortunately they do nothing at the Ministry of Health to cover the formal reservations submitted by the amendment. One can only assume whether this ostrich attitude is or is not supported by the tobacco lobby. And what is the reality of today? When we have prepared a proposal for a solution in agreement with the professional public, how did the Ministry of Health react to this situation? They said they would prepare an even better own design. To date, however, we have, unfortunately, one big nothing from this ministry! They just bailed, even though they had a lot going on two months ago. And what's the government's reaction? According to the pattern "perhaps" and "uncompromising maybe." It took a neutral position on this proposal. This government decision is based on six points which can be fully implemented in the context of this law in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, I beg you, colleagues, let us discuss this press, let us let it go into second reading, where we will discuss all the problems, and above all, let us approve of the law. You don't want to be talked about by respectable coalition partners that you don't want to do anything to protect the health of children and adolescents. Thank you for supporting the inclusion of these two points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u59	I, my colleague, need to be more specific - health protection is the first point you want to take today after firmly classified and regulation of advertising...? [[Member Novak: As the second point after the fixed positions.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u60	Now, Mr President, you have another application under the designation number 2, and I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, to agree to the appointment of paragraph 85, press 250, amendments to the Act on certain rights of persons with disabilities, which use the dog's escort with special training, as the first point for already firmly classified. This regulation is based, in particular, on the personal experience of disabled people and companies dealing with this issue. Surely we all agree that our concern to disabled fellow citizens should be at least as much help as possible and bearable as possible in their difficult life destiny, especially now, in these difficult times. That is why I hope and believe in your support. Special training of these dogs limits the safety risks and other aspects of animal behaviour which could otherwise justify excluding their access to public spaces or public public transport resources. A dog with special training is a dog intended for accompanying a disabled person. It is specially selected and trained so it is characterized by different character characteristics and behaviour than dogs without training. For this reason, it is necessary to take into account the differences between dogs with special training and other animals and to understand a dog with special training primarily as an integral part of a disabled person and only then to consider the specifics of living creatures and can there be legitimate justification for their exclusion. It is very important to define the term dog with special training and to identify the subject entitled to training. In the Czech Republic, there is no uniform system for assessing the quality of training or checking the skills and abilities of a trained dog. In practice, there are complaints about the quality of trained dogs in various training subjects. In the Czech Republic there is no system for setting professional qualification or material-technical requirements and criteria for conducting dog training with special training. For this reason, the quality of training may be different, sometimes insufficient. However, there are organisations bringing together training bodies that have their own sophisticated recognised standards both for training and for selecting people and working with people with disabilities who are able to use and train a dog with special training. In principle, if the State is to fulfil the role of a quality guarantor, it has only one option, i.e. by establishing the conditions for membership of a training body in an internationally recognised organisation which also has its own continuous control mechanism for compliance with training standards. The subject matter of the proposed legislation is to ensure the entry of persons with disabilities accompanied by a dog with special training in specified public spaces and public transport means. In this context it is necessary to define in particular the concept of a dog with special training as well as the premises into which the entry of persons with disabilities accompanied by a dog with special training is to be made possible. For many citizens, this adjustment is not only desirable but also very necessary. It helps them improve their lives. That is why I believe that you will support the negotiation of this law, and for that I thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u61	Thank you, too. We can proceed to the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u62	Yes, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have another request for support here, namely for support in the submission of paragraph 61, House Press 66, Amendment No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, simplified warranty period. The proposed regulation may be a small but significant aid to entrepreneurs and, above all, to small entrepreneurs in their business at a time when it is very difficult to survive. Let me give you a few examples. When you buy a mobile phone in the store as a private person, you have two years of warranty. If you're a businessman, you're only running the time set by the seller, usually it's one year. If you operate as a self-employed person and take over mobile technology from large suppliers, in this case you simply guarantee a year for their goods so-called your own. The offer built on the sale of goods, such as technology, is therefore often an existential thing for such entrepreneurs. Another case is a situation where a self-employed person purchases goods for his own use and is at risk of being forced to buy new equipment in the event of a failure of any establishment after the first year of operation. A typical example is, for example, IT goods. If you buy some software solution, including hardware, with high probability the second year of operation is already guaranteed by someone other than the one who made it. The current reality is actually based on the willingness of companies and business entities to agree. However, there are cases where manufacturing companies are less and less willing to guarantee the second year as well. [[17.20 hours]] We should be aware that the current time puts enormous pressure on entrepreneurs on the obligations to the state arising from the business. That is why this business environment needs to be levelled as much as possible so that standards do not complicate life. I repeat that the basic principle of the proposed legislation is to provide the same protection of the right from defective performance to entrepreneurs concluding a purchase contract with the seller of the entrepreneur, in such a case if it is a purchase in the course of his business. As I say in the proposal, the possibility of an arrangement which shortens the period for the exercise of rights from defective performance under the law laid down by 24 months will result in difficulties in defending against the seller in the event that the purchase object shows a defect and for no reason disadvantages one group of customers, especially small businessmen, compared to another group, namely consumers. At its meeting on 29 December 2021, colleagues, the Government discussed and assessed this bill of ours and took a neutral position on it, recommending that the Chamber of Deputies take these facts into account in the next legislative process. I see this as a good basis for further work in the legislative process, especially in committees. The fact is particularly encouraging - and I quote: "We should be aware that the current time puts enormous pressure on entrepreneurs on the obligations to the state arising from the business. Nevertheless, the government is aware that there are certain inequalities in business relations that may be abused by stronger parties." That is precisely the merit of the bill's proposal. When drafting an amendment to Act No. 89/3012 Coll. I, like the government, have become aware of the problem in terms of area or proportionality of the proposed regulation in the formulation of my opinion. I also agree with the view of government legislation that this regulation should not affect the relations of all entrepreneurs in general, but only a certain group of entrepreneurs, i.e. self-employed ones. I therefore assume that, as part of the second reading, we would refine this formulation and targeting of the amendment in order to better match our solution. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything we can do for small businessmen, it is 100% facilitating the business environment and removing obstacles in legal standards. One of these minor reliefs is the discussion of this amendment and after all the comments of its adoption have been made. I therefore call for this point to be the first point for the already firmly included, and thank you, colleagues, for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u63	Thank you. Now, the second-to-last application for the program, please, yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u64	Yes, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby ask for your support in the priority of paragraph 92, House printing 273 amendments to Act No. 370/2017 Coll., on payment services, as the first point for fixed points. This is a change that has proved to be very necessary, especially recently. The current state of affairs of companies seeking to set up an account in some parameters discriminates. While at this point commercial banks are obliged to set up an account for a natural person without reservation, the establishment of a corporate account is linked to the type of business and in some cases is not granted to the entities concerned. Simply every citizen has the right by law to set up a bank account, but companies which are established in accordance with our Czech laws do not have such a right in the Czech Republic. So the bank can say to them, "No, you're in the crypto-currency business, you're in the industry, it's against our rules, and we're not gonna set you up an account. Yeah, well, it's the companies that, according to the banks, have a problematic business subject covered by various permits, licenses and other documents that allow them to do business in the field. They do business in accordance with Czech laws, therefore there is no further additional reason for companies to continue to bully other conditions. The reason banks do not open accounts may stem from their mothers' internal instructions abroad, which, within the framework of European green taxonomy, want to limit a certain part of production and business. Another possible reason may also be fear of Czech competition or also of overprotectiveness in relation to the digital economy. Another important thing is the interest of the state in smooth entrepreneurship, job creation, and thus contributions to the social system, the creation of a taxpayer and enrichment of the labour market. Movement in company accounts is also a means of minimizing the existence of finished money, tax evasion and various optimizations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope and I hope that you will support the priority of this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u65	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give my word to Patrik Nacher, today Mr Roman Bělor apologizes from 18.45 to 21.30 for business reasons. Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak on the agenda and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have one point to put forward, and that is the House press 48, serial number 56, change in the Civil Procedure Code. When you think about the parameters of the laws that we are making here, I see at least two for me: firstly, some need, topicality, authenticity, and, secondly, the fact that the government has given a positive opinion on the parliamentary proposal will certainly help. That's just it, I'm glad for it. It is my and my colleagues' amendments, and the current government has given a favourable opinion on this, which I would like to underline here. I've been discussing this with Karel Haas, with whom I've been dealing with a number of other changes in consumer protection, I respect his opinion, and as far as I know, he agrees with this. The parameter of topicality and authenticity is what is currently happening. What is happening is that the rising energy prices, the rising threats of various energy-smuggling people who are exploiting some tough consumer situation, cause the number of people who turn to out-of-court bodies to increase when you ask about the ERU - but the same applies to the Czech Television, the same applies to financial arbitrators - the number of disputes is increasing, the number of out-of-court disputes is increasing. We on the Consumer Protection Sub-Committee had a councillor from the Energy Regulatory Office who said that, at this point, there were three times the number of disputes before the ERO, before the Energy Regulatory Office, compared to last year. What this amendment is dealing with is very simple. He deals with the fact that the moment a person, a consumer, turns to an out-of-court body, wins, and then the institution makes a logical appeal, that is, it goes classically to court - because she wants to take advantage of all the legal options that bank managers, insurance companies, energy companies, operators, and the like - then it ends in court. And the problem is that the court doesn't have to - it doesn't have to - it doesn't have to - inform the out-of-court authority about the trial, and in such a case, if it doesn't inform, the client who originally turned to the ER, here at the CTU, here at the financial arbitrary, is on his own before the court, because the consumer is being sued, not the institution that had already decided. [[17.30 hours]] So the amendment that is here, this is the House press 48, on which, as I said, the government gave a favourable opinion, solves the fact that the courts will inform the out-of-court authority that there is a litigation, and the out-of-court authority will therefore have the opportunity to defend its own position before the court, so that the client - the consumer will not be left alone, because the position is then unbalanced. Consumers turn to an out-of-court authority, as it follows from that name, to go outside the courthouse, to make a quick decision, to make sure it doesn't cost a lot of money so they don't have to take a lawyer for it. The moment he ends up in court, I feel it's only fair that the out-of-court authority better defends its own position. And I warn you, because it is really very carefully prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, with legislation, he does not become a secondary party to the proceedings, because he sometimes does not decide 100: 0, the out-of-court authority may also sometimes decide to meet the client in something and not in something, it can be 50: 50. He only defends his own resolution, his own decision. Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you, it's been here for six months, or seven months, it's here in the system, I didn't bother before the election, so no one would say that I want to open this issue of consumer protection against municipal elections. It is after the municipal elections, and I am asking you to assign - I think it can be a quick thing, because since your government - now I am talking to coalition MPs - has given a favourable opinion on this. Look it up if you don't believe me. By the way, the government has already done so on December 13, 2021, so long the proposal has been here. So I'm asking you to get that print 48 to line up. I don't know, I wasn't really watching who put everything in the first place, but let's just say today's meeting. Alternatively, I would then consult the President on alternations, so that it does not just fit in purely because we do not want to discuss it today, so I could propose the first point, perhaps, of Friday's negotiations. But my point is that we actually discuss the press 48, and it is at this time when people are under pressure, when they use more of these institutions - and this is not only the ERO because of energy prices, the various advances that they have in spite of their fixation, but they really turn to the financial arbiter, the Czech Television, after all, and the ČOI, so that we discuss the press, because I think it is uncontroverted and can go through it really quickly. It rarely happens - and I thank you for it - that the government would give the opposition's parliamentary initiatives a favourable opinion. Here's the consensus, there's really no reason, and it would have been on purpose if you hadn't helped me put it on the program. I am begging you, as I said, tonight be the first point, on Friday as the first point, to leave it to the honourable Vice-President, so that we can somehow find time to discuss this point, which we can discuss quickly and at the same time help consumers, to include and successfully discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u67	Thank you. I have noted your two suggestions on the inclusion of this point. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u68	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I propose to include a new item in this meeting entitled Underfinancing schools in the budget for 2022 and 2023, and to assign it as the first item in this meeting. The state took a billion crowns to the schools for routine expenses. The directors thus have trouble paying the teachers sick leave, lack of money for textbooks, for the rewards of active educators. But the Minister of Education Vladimír Balaš for STAN claims that schools have enough money to get a billion out of European funds. But when we look at these funds, they will not cover these expenses, because only computers and other technologies can buy them. I am currently reading in the annual reports of primary schools for the school year 2021/2022 that, since January 2022, schools have been facing insufficient funding for other non-investment expenditures, the so-called ONIVs. These are further education of teachers, swimming, aids. This situation is very reflected in the participation of teachers in seminars and educational events. Although many courses are held free of charge, the school lacks financial cover for travel refunds as well. Next: Komenský Elementary School in Ostrava-Poruba received CZK half a million less from the state this year than last year. She misses her money so much now, of course, half a million blackouts. "From this fund we pay for sickness, school aids and teacher education. In order to cover these current operating expenses, we already had to pour over CZK 311,000 into this fund from the money to pay the teachers. By doing so, we had to take almost 10,000 crowns from each teacher on rewards. Active educators who devote themselves to children beyond normal teaching get less this year. This is the result of government savings," says Renáta Fialová, director of the school. Schools received money from European funds instead of funds for these necessary expenditures, but they cannot use it for what they need. This European money cannot be used for medical teachers, education of teachers or school aids and other expenditures. From these schools can buy only IT technology, e.g. 3D printers, robotic aids, 3D glasses and the like. Even next year, schools will probably have a shortage of money for current spending, as the Ministry of Finance has rejected the increase in money to ONIV, and the situation will be even worse due to inflation and, in particular, the increase in prices. "If we don't have money to reward teachers, I won't be able to motivate young skilled cantors to stay in education. It seems as if the Ministry of Education has decided to leave the primary school entirely to its fate, so that they can deal with it themselves," says the school principal. The situation, in my opinion, must be addressed. Czech education and education of our children is at risk. Saving our children's education is really premeditated, and I'm calling for a re-evaluation of the situation and a handbrake pull. Therefore, Mr President, please include underfinancing the schools in the budget for 2022 and 2023 today as the first point after the already firmly included points of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u69	Thank you, too. I have noted the proposal. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now appear and Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I am always here on the subject of health and social affairs, today I will change things a little and I will be here as a Member for the Liberec Region. When I read in the press this morning, I read the article Tvrda Morning for the Čech living in the north, so of course it concerns me and the citizens of our Liberec Region. It is mining in the Turów mine. A lot has been said about this, yet today I was not pleased by the article I read in the monitoring because it is up to date, so I decided to include or reason why, but to include this item at the meeting. I'll say forward, Thursday at 11 o'clock, firmly placed. [[Vice-President Bartošek: Thank you.]] Please. [[17.40 hours]] And the point is that now citizens in the Liberec Region, there are eight Members for the Liberec Region, truth, three for the ANO movement, one SPD, so the other four I hope will vote in favour of this point, because it is indeed the citizens of the Liberec Region, when it is said that the brown coal mine of Turów has received a new positive assessment of the impact of mining on the environment of the EIA from the Polish authorities and the decision can allow the continuation of mining until 2044. The residents on the Czech side of the border are worried about the loss of groundwater and the decline of land. Who doesn't know the Turów mine is located on the triple border of Poland, the Czech Republic and Germany. On Friday he received a new positive assessment of the EIA, so he threatens to benefit there by 2044. The EIA permit had already been revoked by the court, and the Polish authorities were renegotiating the comments. In February 2022, the Polish court decided, following the appeal of our lawyers, to abolish the so-called immediate enforceability clause for the assessment of the EIA. This allowed the extraction to be suspended until the incorrect dates set out in the EIA assessment have been assessed. Such a procedure shall be laid down by European law. However, the Polish operator of the mine continued to benefit regardless of this condition. Poland has thus committed violations of European law, which is unacceptable. The loss of Czech water is in fact not sufficiently compensated. You know that Poland has sent a billion crowns to the Czech Republic, but it is not enough to build the necessary water lines for local residents, let alone to deal with disappearing water in the countryside. The underground wall, whose construction was defended by the Czech government by international agreement, cannot stop the water drain. The final environmental minister Anna Hubáčková confirmed this recently. Mrs Hubáčková, the secretary of departure, recently said that the contract was never meant to protect the supply of drinking water and that it was said to be a rumor. However, it denied the government's own argument in defending the treaty. According to the Councillor Liberec Region behind the Pirates, there seems to have been some communication noise, which again says: "Of course the protection of drinking water supplies for Czech residents was the number one priority during all negotiations. I can't explain the Minister's statement." As regards the new EIA assessment, we accept the Polish court's statement, although we tried to appeal. We currently have an international agreement. According to the Czech Geological Service, a better agreement is not technically possible. The barrier in the form of an underground wall should not be functional until five, six years later, said the councilman of the Liberec Region. So now I don't know if... who we're supposed to trust, Mrs. Secretary Hubáčková, or our Councilman of the Liberec Region, who obviously disagree. So I think our region in the Liberec Region can face very serious problems. Moreover, the decision of the Polish authorities is all wrong, which was supplemented by Zuzana Pechová from the Neighborhood Association Uhelná. And the worst part is that, as the Czech government writes in the media, I really draw from the media, the Czech government has refused to comment on the whole matter with the fact that the problem is in the Ministry of Environment. The Ministry is not a party to the review procedure of the Polish EIA permit, so the Ministry will not comment until the documents have been received. I will remind you again, or you all know that Poland has paid compensation to the Czech Republic for the Turów mine, but now it is actually threatening again that the inhabitants of the Liberec Region - there may be a drop in groundwater. And I would really like the citizens of the Liberec Region in the territory where it is located, because we have been discussing the Turów mine for a long time, to have relevant information and information about what our government wants to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Roman Kubíček will now appear and Mr Miloslav Janulík will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point at a meeting that I have called Heating Problems and its effects on end-users. In the past period, we have been very focused on increasing energy prices, especially the energy of gas and electrical energy, so we forgot a little bit about heating. Since the heat season has already started and about 4.5 million citizens in the Czech Republic depend on heat plants, this topic is very topical and very important. In some way, the Heating Association refers to the fact that it has not been heard and discussed and, given the increasing prices of coal, chips and gas, there is a significant increase in prices for end-users. To be clear, these end users are not only citizens of the Czech Republic, but also companies operating in the Czech Republic. It is called energy heat, which is used for cooling and heating of various plants, such as breweries, cold plants use it, and, of course, this supply of energy heat is an important part that affects the cash flow of individual companies. The energy regulatory authority of the heat plant abolished the green bonus that the heat plants received for the production of cogeneration energy, from which they were able to partially recover the increase in heat prices for end-users until then. At the same time, the price of all commodities is increasing - it is also coal, it is the price of coal transport, it is the price of chips, it is the price of transport and this price will, of course, be written into the accounts of individual users. She wouldn't be such a tragedy if there wasn't a jump price increase. For example, information from the Liberec Region, where there is a large amount of gas-dependent heat plants, is now reporting an increase of up to 300 percent. This means that households that, for example, paid about CZK 700 per gigajoule for gas are now around CZK 3,000 and do not exclude further price increases, even if there may be a shortage of raw materials such as gas, so that these households can be safely supplied. This is, of course, also true in the smaller ones for coal and chips plants, because some commodity prices are fixed in deliveries up to a certain time. But, of course, what is not fixed is the price of transportation that is rising steeply. To be in the picture, there are several fully filled trains that have to transport this raw material to some operation of a central heating plant for a hundred thousand city a month. This raw material must be translated and delivered to its destination. It is not an entirely simple matter, because households and companies are already burdened with other charges, such as the increase in gas price, the increase in electricity price, and all these increases are then reflected in the price of products and in the price and on the competitive environment. Of course, even those heat plants that produced cogeneration helped in some way to produce this electricity, but this amount is becoming insufficient nowadays. [[17.50 hours]] I'm talking to many mayors who are dependent on individual heat plants, and now I'm saying one advantage of the cities that own the heat plants, and then the disadvantages of cities that just get heat from some remote transmission, which works in such a way that they immediately reflect the prices of the increase of the raw material into the price of the end consumer, and as you could see and read in the press, there was a failure of a small heat company that stopped supplying several small towns in the Zlin region, but it is only a matter of time before it could hit everyone. Heating is a special field, it's in the global before you turn the tap on and before you turn on the radiator to keep your house warm, so you all think you don't need it until then. However, at the moment when the weather surge comes and is caused by some unsure thermal comfort, each one turns the faucet, turns the heat into the household and is expected from the town hall's leadership to provide them with heat to a sufficient degree and at an acceptable price. I am afraid that it would be very good to open this subject, because, as I recall, last year for example, the support of photovoltaics was CZK 40 million for the whole year, and the promotion of a green bonus for heat plants, which is now disappearing, was only CZK 2 billion. [[I suppose?]] Of course, we've heard a lot about the use of the Modernization Fund, but let's face it, the Modernization Fund, if the money isn't used to match the price of the end customer, it's for something completely different, it's actually used to upgrade heat and heat plants and its operation is a very complex technological device that needs maintenance that needs upgrades. The equipment also has its lifespan and, of course, individual repairs are in tens of millions, sometimes hundreds of millions of crowns. I know what I'm talking about, because I'm sitting on the supervisory board of the Ceske Budejovice hothouse, and we're dealing with a similar problem. We did some demand management for a new boiler, where the price climbed up to CZK 1.5 billion, which is a small amount, and despite all the savings that the heat plant has created, the amount is very, very high for today and is influenced by the input prices of the material, the works and so on. So it would be very good if we opened this point and started talking about how to go on. Firstly, how to help consumers and companies this year, next year, and how to set up gas support for the future, so as not to close gas plants, close plants or abnormally high price increases for end consumers. I think that's what the voters and you expect, because it's going to be one of the things that touches their households, their wallets, and it would be very good for the Ministry of Life Development, the Ministry of Industry and Trade to do this, and for us to start dealing with some price policy that will be sustainable for the next period. It will certainly not be easy, because we know that this energy crisis will not be solved by waving a magic wand and disappearing within one year, and we also need to talk about what raw material we will be drowning and producing electricity, whether we will have enough raw materials such as coal, such as chips, such as gas, how we can deal with what raw materials we have most and to which we can switch, and whether it is real if, for example, it is coal, upgrade and rebuild production in power plants and heat plants that are able to process coal and produce heat and electricity. We do not even know this at present, and at present we are not even quite sure what the final price would be, because the prices to start or upgrade or upgrade or upgrade are a little bit in the stars, because no one has put them on the table, and it would be very interesting to see if the Ministry of Industry and Trade had submitted the total sum, the total balance that needs to be inserted into this system, how would the capacity of companies supplying this technology, repairing this equipment, more or less serve individual operations in order to be able to supply electricity and heat to individual households. Of course, the bigger the city, the bigger the problem, because diversification to individual other sources does not exist completely, and as you know, especially panel houses are mainly connected to central heating by heat. And once again, companies in large quantities use energy heat to run their operations. So I would like to propose one more time a point called Heating Problems and its impacts on end-users, and I would like to propose either today as the first point, and if this were not accepted, as the first point for Thursday's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have noted both proposals. Before Mr Miloslav Janulík comes forward, I am registering an application with the priority right of President Excellent. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I apologize to my colleague Janulík, but I will hold him off for about one or two minutes. We have been having this discussion for almost four hours - not that it is not an interesting contribution to the 41st meeting, but we are already debating the programme here for almost four hours, and I think that it should be voted on in a procedural manner, that we will continue the debate on the programme after 19 o'clock and that we will continue today after 19 o'clock and 24 o'clock in the 41st meeting, which will also be approved within some time limit, and that we will be voting as required by the Rules of Procedure, including the drafts of laws under discussion. Thank you. I ask that the procedure be put to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u75	This is a procedural proposal. Before my colleagues and colleagues come to the ballroom, I'll first read an apology. Today, Mr Vladimír Balaš apologizes from 16 to 18.30 for work reasons. Since a procedural proposal has been made, only counter-proposals may be filed. [[To Mr Vondráček:]] Then I'll ask you to file a counterclaim. In the meantime, if you don't mind, I'll check you all out first and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. Please, Mr. Ambassador, read the counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u76	Hello, good evening. I think the situation isn't so critical, I would still try to counter-proposition that we would act after 19 and not after 21 o'clock and that we could do it here by nine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u77	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else has a counterproposal? If this is not the case, then I shall first vote on Mr Vondráček's counter-proposal, in order to act and vote in a procedural and territorial manner after 19 o'clock. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 169 Members and Members, for proposal 75, against 6, have not agreed to this proposal. We will therefore vote on the original proposal by President Excellent to act and vote after 19th, 21st and 24th hours, both in a procedural and territorial manner. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 3, 171 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 110, against 54. This proposal has been approved and we have extended today's negotiations even after 24 o'clock. [[18.00 hours]] I will therefore ask Mr Miloslav Janulík to take the floor and to make his proposals for an adjustment to the negotiations. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a suggestion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u79	I'm sorry, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down in both the right and left of the hall. Those of you who are discussing, please go to the lobby, in both the right and left side of the hall, so that I can understand what kind of proposal will sound. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u80	The proposal will be quite simple. It will be a proposal to eliminate paragraph 73, House press number 165, that is the Senate bill on the residence of foreigners. For simple reasons, this law applies for a little over a year, and in a little over a year it turns out that it brought order where order was not. And of course, the question is, why change something that works? Cui prodest? Cui bono? Why? Why does it bother anyone so much? Why is it suddenly necessary to change something that turned out to be functional? Order is in order. To us, a health facility, finally for the care of foreigners - I am mainly talking about foreigners who are insured not by law, but who are outside the EU, and who are about to turn to us and probably turn to us more and more - so finally someone is paying us for this care, the health facility does not incur debts that we all eventually had to bail out, either from our health insurance or from our taxes, because other money was basically not there for this purpose. And that's why I suggest that, if anything is to change and somehow alienate, then it should be after some broader discussion, or not with this hot needle here. I would suggest that this point be eliminated, that we really on the soil of the health committee and relevant committees, or in the professional public, so that all health insurance companies and the insurance companies concerned are invited to do some round table, there we discussed things so that I do not have to bring up the argument at first, second reading, which would not be a lot of taste, because I have an argument or I have arguments to point out some of the not-so-flattering phenomena related to this. It served someone, and it stopped serving about a year ago, and something, and he's trying now, the one or the ones we stepped on the chicken eye, trying to reverse the situation. Simply those who sit on the board of directors of the VZP - many are in a two-time situation at that time - just pointing out that, in time, if this happens, I will mention and explain to my colleagues how difficult the two-time situation is - we have all heard how this insurance is managed by the VZP insurance company. Of course, the arguments about its monopoly and the like and about the European Union are odd, all have already been refuted, but here lies both on the running belt, so the truth does not sound anymore, so it is of course senseless, but interesting that someone so-called duopol, such as Kooperativa and Generali on employment liability insurance here for years flying nobody minds, none of you. That's interesting. Yeah, everyone got used to it, not even the object of the attack, not even the ÚOHS had to comment on it, just as the ÚOHS expressed itself on this, and of course I have his support position. I really have a kilo of arguments and supportive opinions. So if anybody wants to hear things that don't taste too good, go ahead. So I'm just pointing out that it's obvious that now, at this time, when we've taken health care - as we all know - 14 billion, we want to cripple VZP a little bit more so that the money that's being strictly supervised today is being monitored and any profits will be transferred to my mother or VZP as such, which is the dominant health insurance company in our country, so now it would be inclined to play it again to some Slavia and Maxima, those are my infamous insurance companies, I have my personal experience with them as a health care provider and doctor. I can then share the experience with you, if anyone wants to, or if someone pushes it into the first, second reading, I will, of course, be happy and willing to share it here, and not just these, but many others. And I think that blind people are going to cross their eyes when I read some e-mail correspondence here, and we're going to easily figure out who and why, and how he's interested in doing that right now at this time when we're... I think this republic really has other concerns, we've already intervened, so we've put all Ukrajinec on VZP insurance. Those deadlines are running out, and luckily black scenarios have not been confirmed that they will exhaust our health insurance, even though some are already pumping very well. Now, at this time, I consider it very inappropriate and unreasonable to put sand into the system in this way. And that's why I'd be leaning towards it, if it were to happen at all, so that it would be really not in this way I would say quasi-partisan way, when from the Senate, and of course it has... The proposal is old, I'd say prewar, if we use terminology as our fathers, it was before the war. Of course, I mean the war in Ukraine. This is a prewar proposal that was created in a completely different and completely different time, so that it would have to admit such fundamental changes that it is actually useless, the whole thing would have to be again. That is why I recommend this after a broad discussion, after a broad consensus, when in any way to rework. But if you've noticed, I think it's almost a quarter from that deadline. I mean the deadline for the insurance to be managed by the VZP, and we set it there after some mature consideration and agreement with Mrs Adámková for five years, and from that 25 percent or a quarter has passed. So I'd say if you guys were to argue for a while, she'd be gone in a minute, and it'd be the birth of a dead baby, as we obstetricians say. So basically there's absolutely no logic, no motivation, no consensus. I'd just like to say that we've actually set the rules for that area of contractual health insurance for foreigners, we've secured local, time-access to health care for contract insured people, we've eliminated debts, they've been - I don't know if you've noticed those numbers, but the Treasury figured it out, those debts were hundreds of millions. This brought, of course, an aspect of public health protection in the form of a smooth remuneration, such as vaccination against covid-19. You haven't even noticed that the defensive VZP has brought order into this, and it actually protects the majority population, but it's already considered itself. Testing and preventing spread among foreigners, and it is, of course, a secondary effect, hence the support of the public budget, because we all know that such a stranger, when he finds himself in danger of health or life, will find himself in a medical facility and that medical facility then carries the burden of financial. And if it can't handle the device, then its founder, in the case of faculty department, in the case of regional hospitals of the region and so on and so on. However, in the case of single providers, non-state health establishments under Law No. 160, it's just the doctor carrying it on his shoulders. And I was one of those guys who carried it for years, and believe me, I was very irritated, so I wouldn't want that situation to go back as many people would like, okay? [[18.10 hours]] At the same time, what works does not burden the public budget by expanding other groups of foreigners from third countries. There are crazy suggestions here that children will be involved, and I don't know, family relatives and so on. That would ruin any budget. It's just these endless screams. And of course, what would that bring us? Well, health tourism! Well, that's what we've been through here, of course, someone would like to put it back, but the tourism, the nature of the tourism, of course, is completely different. Because when you're a provider and someone comes up with a chronic... or you know that the disease or the disorder they bring in has years of flying and doesn't solve it in their home country, because it's either impossible to deal with it, or it's so financially challenging for him personally, because the care at our level isn't even so financially secured, so he's going to come here for this quasi-insurance that's given him some Quantum or Slavia, or Maximus or Slavia, so he's going to come here to sort it out. And we're gonna solve it, our doctors, and then we're gonna issue an invoice, and with that invoice, we can make a fire in the backyard of the hospital, because no one's gonna pay the invoice at all, or pay it at some totally ridiculous amount, because somewhere back there, it says petit that it doesn't apply to these cases and so on. So, of course, it's a common practice, or it was a common practice until we introduced the elementary order. I just add that according to the current European directives, a Member State must ensure adequate compensation for excluded groups from public health insurance, and this is the group, obviously the foreigners from third countries, excluded from health insurance. Contractual health insurance is therefore a state regulated insurance, it is not an impeccable market where the State determines the conditions for its operation. In the case of public health insurance, a network of contractual health establishments is required, which guarantees local and time-available care and guarantees access to health care by the insured person. However, if contractual health insurance for foreigners is to be a substitute for public health insurance for foreigners from third countries without employment and permanent residence, it is therefore essential that there are criteria for this network to be required by competent authorities. And that, my friends, was not. That's just not what happened. And now I'm saying, we've made it okay, and why does it bother anyone? The current legal regulation of the contractual health insurance of foreigners was insufficient, i.e. I am talking about 2021, and in particular regarding health care provision, insurance loss, insurance premiums and so on, because there were no criteria at all, they simply insured for completely fictitious, ridiculous amounts, and 80 per cent of the insurance took the insurance as a reward, so there was basically nothing left to do with the actual performance. It was just a little puffed up nothing, as the ďábel would say in Hell's Kitchen, and they all pretended that it was exactly it, that it's just supposed to be like formally done, done to get these people a status here, that they'd prove to be some kind of insurance, even if it's just a piece of paper, okay? And the fact that we, at the other end of the string, didn't have anything left in our hands, or rather just the work and the care, so it didn't really matter to anybody here, especially here in Prague, did it? Because it's just been going on for years. This, of course, was a breeding ground for the efforts of human rights activists who pointed out that lawyers specialized in foreign law used to enforce care for us, yes, so that foreigners could be involved here, things were simply interesting, and now we would... I'm just pointing out that somebody wants to put it back. But at all, I don't see the motivation at all, or I can see, but I will, if I have to, of course, mention it, okay? Well, I'd just add that PVZP is the daughter of VZP and doesn't transfer dividends abroad, the money stays here. We're left with the public health insurance, the profits, if any, okay? That's the big difference. So if it bothers anybody here - and here I'm just saying again to colleagues sitting on the Board of Directors of the VZP and acting here would damage the economic interests of the VZP, that would be a very interesting consideration as to how they would take up their responsibilities. And so I have an opinion on this, and I will keep it to myself for now, but it is not very joyful, so I would be very careful in this sense and I recommend that you consider everyone with a cool head: pull that point, please, let's talk about it, let's make a round table, let's invite everyone involved. Let's talk about it, but I think we really do now, and now we have this state and our people, we, citizens, and we, in particular, should - we represent these citizens here - see that they have other concerns. This isn't the main thing that's burning us right now and what we should be spending hours and hours on here, okay? I think it's somewhere else, and let's hear it out among the people. I listen to it in my office when I'm not sitting here, so I sit there and I hear what people say and what worries they're starting to worry about. And all of a sudden, because I'm doing a major that I'm doing, and suddenly people are starting to delay pregnancy, and they're starting to delay parenting. Is that what we wanted? Well, people just don't want to have kids like that... when the government itself scares them and says, oh, it's all wrong, it's gonna get worse, so it just cuts the tree that we're all sitting on...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u81	Ambassador, I'm sorry to bring you into this, but please speak to the point. You're talking about shutting down the Senate Bill on the residence of foreigners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u82	So again, I ask that this paragraph 73, House Press 165, be removed from the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u83	Thank you, too. Next, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will appear and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u84	Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. I have here again a request for the inclusion of a new point in the programme called Help for municipalities and cities with an impregnable claim at Sberbank. The government has decided to apply a sectoral tax not only to energy companies but also to banks with reasons that banks are making money on inflation because the central bank has raised its rates due to inflation and thus pays banks higher interest on their deposits. Too bad our government can't negotiate with anybody. It could have long negotiated lower energy prices with the largest producers, as others did, and it could have negotiated with banks the flow of funds into desirable and advantageous investments. And yet we have one opportunity left, which is: the regions, cities and municipalities have frozen CZK 7.7 billion in Sberbank, which was virtually wiped out by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Now the liquidation is under way, and these deposits are being raised by question marks. Sberbank's assets will be sold and creditors will be satisfied with the proceeds. Unfortunately, the regions, towns and villages are only the last in a row, so they will only get what is left of them. If Sberbank's assets, i.e. the loans granted by this bank, quickly bought out the largest banks in the Czech Republic at face value, the municipalities could get all their money back and no one would lose anything. Banks would buy a good credit portfolio, Sberbank would pay off all its liabilities and quietly put an end to its liquidation in the Czech Republic. Let us remember that Sberbank was a good bank and that its deposits were therefore a good investment. The regions, cities and municipalities have made no mistake, yet they must now borrow at high interest and stop some actions and investments and face considerable losses. Could our government therefore negotiate a solution for them? I believe that I do, and for this reason I am asking for a new point on which a debate should take place in the House plenary, and I am asking for this point to be included as new items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u85	I'm sorry to understand, the proposal. When do you want to put him in? [[Member Balaštíková: Today.]] For today, okay. And in order? [[Member Balaštíková: First in line.]] Tonight's the first point. Thank you. Next, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is on the agenda and Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u86	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, fellow Members, I am glad that at this very moment the ministry has gone out to the Minister of Transport, because his point concerns me. The name of the point is The Transport Minister's report on the transitability of the railway corridor near Poříčan and the proposal for inclusion, please, not today, but tomorrow morning as the first point, because I think we will be interested not only in us but also in citizens. Yesterday, when I was driving, the train was only five minutes late, but then from 3.25 hours I drove 6.25 hours, which means twice the time, and I think it's not just me. I understand that there was a situation when a locomotive derailed in Poříčany, dangerous material was being transported, but the whole corridor was stopped. It has an impact on passenger transport, when people have to go to work, it also affects railway carriers who can't carry their goods now after the main move. And surprisingly, when I was on that train yesterday... explaining to the staff that where we're going there's a diversion, thanks to repairs, there's only one railroad track for both directions. [[18.20 hours]] Today, because I use rail transport very often - it's more comfortable for me, I admit, than driving to Prague, because it's more comfortable than 300 kilometers, the train in which you can work - there's a lot of repairs and they're at the same time. I'm used to counting on being 30 minutes late, I'm already calculating it for my programs when it's smaller, so I'm glad. However, repairs are important, we are also preparing for the express railroads. However, when they take place at the same time on multiple sections and then there is such a situation, it is of course difficult to provide service. I'd be done because we all know that it's complicated on the railroad. That is why I suggest that this point should be tomorrow, because according to the reports that are in the press, perhaps the corridor could already be transitory, and the Minister will certainly be happy to comment on this, because I assume he is handling it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u87	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Josef Kott is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to propose the exclusion of paragraph 6, the number of House document 177, from the 41st meeting, and the reasoning is quite simple: as can be seen from the complexity of this point, it is not yet fully worked out, so I think we are ready to convince the Ministry of Finance to redefine the amendments that would then suit both parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u89	So you're suggesting that point 6 be excluded from the record of sales. Thank you. That's how we used up all the applications for the agenda. I'll rejoin and call in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby. I will read the apologies and put to the vote on individual proposals. Today, on the agenda, Mr Ondřej Kolář apologizes from 19 to 9 in the morning for reasons of work, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes for the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, another apologies Mr Vladimír Balaš from 18.30 to 9 a.m. for reasons of work and further apologies Mr Vít Rakušan from 19 to 9 a.m. for working reasons. I'm registering a request for your check-out, and I'm going to check you all out here, and I'm going to ask you to re-engage. Mr Julius Špičák adjusts his apology from 19 to 9 a.m. this morning. We would first put to the vote proposals on which the grémium agreed and which were read here. I ask whether it is necessary to read the proposals from the Gremium again or not? So I'm registering a request to read the proposals from the Gremium again. Thus, the proposals from the Gremium are: We will exclude from the proposal of the programme paragraphs 2 and 114, it is the House press 96, the protection of public health, the second and third reading. We will also include new points in the proposal for a programme, and this is the House Press 291, the Government Bill amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on granting benefits to persons with disabilities and amending related laws, as amended, and some other laws, second and third reading, into the block of Laws - second reading, respectively Laws - third reading; Furthermore, the House's Press 301, is a government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance as amended, and some other laws, second and third reading, into the block of Laws - second reading, respectively Laws - third reading; Furthermore, there are 315 press, a government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, first reading, and discuss it on Wednesday, 26 October. Furthermore, on Wednesday 12 October, the House's press 30, pension insurance, second reading, as a first point, and the House's press 291, granting benefits to disabled persons, second reading, as a second point. Next, on Friday 14 October, open discussions on points from the Laws block in the third reading order: paragraph 100, House printing 160, low-emission vehicles; paragraph 102, House printing 31, authorial law; paragraph 104, House printing 139, digital instruments; paragraph 106, House printing 175, international judicial cooperation; paragraph 107, House printing 199, use of flats; paragraph 109, House printing 207, civil aviation; paragraph 111, House printing 216, conditions for the operation of vehicles on the road; paragraph 112, House printing 256, penalty law; further, continue point 32, House printing 313, energy law, first reading, pursuant to Section 90 para. 2. Then, if necessary, discuss the items according to the draft agenda. These are proposals from the Gremium that I read again. I see you're all in the room. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal from the Gremium? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 4, 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 166, against no one. The proposal of the Gremium has been approved. And now we're going to follow the reading points. The first is the points for President Jakob. First of all, item number 6, House press 17, the sales record bill, today as the first item. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 5, 169 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 107, against 62. The proposal has been approved. Next item 73, House press 165, Senate proposal on the law on the residence of foreigners on Wednesday as the third point, Wednesday 12. 10th as the third point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 6, 169 Members and Members, for 91, against 75, registered. The proposal has been approved. Next up, item 31, House press 312, law on association in political parties, on day 14. 10th as the fourth point. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 7, 169 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 89, against 75. The proposal has been approved. It is also point 13, House printing 287, right to digital services, design of digital service at 12. 10th as the fifth point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 8, 170 Members and Members are registered, for 93, against 72. The proposal has been approved. [[18.30 hours]] Next item number 12, House press 285, Government bill on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online, 12. 10th as the sixth point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 9, 170 Members and Members are registered, for 92, against 16. The proposal has been approved. In addition, point 21, House press 289, law on pedagogical workers, on 12. 10th as the seventh point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 10, 170 Members and Members are entered, in favour of the 169 proposal, against 1. The proposal has been approved. Next item 17, House print 263, Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, Thursday 13. 10th as the first point after written interpelations. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 11, 170 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 93, against 74. This proposal has also been agreed with. Furthermore, President Tomio Okamura wants to include a new point called the steep increase of illegal migrants in the Czech Republic as the first point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 12, 170 Members and Members are registered, for 76, against 61. This proposal was rejected. Furthermore, President Radim Fiala wants to place a new point because of the energy crisis and the government's inaction threatens to fail companies. First of all, I will vote on the inclusion of this new point. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13, 170 Members are registered, for 77, against 71. The proposal was rejected, so we will not vote on its firm inclusion. President Schillerová has a new point here, and this is the Growth of inflation and impacts on households and companies. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 14, 170 Members of Parliament, for 77, against 30. Even this item has not been included in the programme, we will not vote on solid inclusion. Mrs Dostálová wants to include a new item entitled Solution to the housing crisis. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 15, 170 Members of Parliament, for 77, against 21. This item has not been approved. Next, Mrs Dostálová - paragraph 55, House press 41, trade law, wants to include the second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 16, 170 Members of Parliament, 76, versus 58 have signed up. This proposal has not been agreed with. Mr Radek Vondráček also wants to include a new item, the Information of the Government on National Security issues. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 17 is signed by 170 Members, for 75, against 35. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, there is a proposal that Mr Kukla has, it is the inclusion of a new item in the Expensive Energy and their solution. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Who's against it? Voting with order number 18, 170 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 76, against 35. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mr Kukla also, a new item called Sberbank. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 19, 170 Members and Members, for proposal 75, against 38. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Dražilová wants to include a new point Information on the progress of the work on the Long-Term Care Act. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 20, 170 Members of Parliament, 74, against 22. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mr Jiří Kobza also wants to include a new point of helping Pakistan affected by the floods. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21, 170 Members are registered, for proposal 74, against 16. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another proposal is also made by Mr Kobza, a proposal for a new point in Azerbaijan's aggression against the Republic of Armenia. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 22, 170 Members and Members registered, for 20, against 27. This proposal has not been agreed with. Next, Mr Aleš Juchelka, who wants to place a new point, is the current situation at the busy employment offices. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 23, 170 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 74, against 29. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mr Juchelka proposes item 80, House press 234, on state social support, as the first item of today's negotiations to be firmly placed. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, 170 Members and Members registered, for proposal 75, against 46. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mr Lubomír Brož, paragraph 62, House press 108, an amendment to the Property Act, wants to include the third point in the first reading block. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 25, 171 Members and Members signed in, for 76, against 25. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[18.40 hours]] Mr David Štolpa also wants to place a new point Why the government of Petr Fiala does not help companies with high energy prices. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26, 172 Members are registered, for proposal 77, against 34. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mr Hubert Lang wants to include a new item called the Reform of the Foreign Police, the re-establishing of the Foreign Police as a branch with a nationwide presence, all in connection with the increase in illegal migration in the Czech Republic. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 27, 172 Members of Parliament, 74, against 29. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another proposal by Mrs Helena Válková, number 88, House Press 262, the Act on the Rights of the Child, wants to include him on Friday 14. 10. for already firmly classified points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 28, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 81, against 13. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another proposal was made by Mr Richard Brabec. It is paragraph 69, House press 154, amending the Act on the Terms and Conditions of Emissions Trading. Here we will vote in option, first of all as the first item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 29 is signed by 174 Members, for proposal 78, against 51. No consent has been given to the proposal. Or this point should be classified as the second point after the already fixed points today. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 30, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 27. Nor has this proposal been agreed. Mr. Jiří Mašek also wants to place a new point, and this is Illegal migration, information from the Minister of Interior on border guarding the Slovak Republic in connection with illegal migration after 28. 10. 2022 and wants to include it as the third point after the fixed points for Friday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 31, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 80, against 36. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková also wants to include a new item on the agenda of the meeting The critical situation in the departments of social and legal protection of children. Initiating and asking, who's in favour of putting a new point on the program? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 32, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 33. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mrs Věra Adámková wants to include paragraph 71, House press 162, transplant law, as the first item on Thursday 14. 10. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 33, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78 against 23. No consent has been given to the proposal. Another proposal was made by Mrs Berenika Peštová. It is a new item of Minister Síkela's appearance at the Association of Industry. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 34, 174 Members and Members registered, for 74, against 55. No consent has been given to the proposal. Next, Mrs Margita Balaštíková wants to include a new point Re-evaluation of some of the new measures proposed by the EU in agriculture. Initiating and asking, who's in favour of putting a new point on the program? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 35, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 47. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová also wants to place a new item on the agenda, namely the Pay of police officers and firefighters. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting a new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 36, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 74, against 16. No consent has been given to the proposal. We now have five proposals from Mr Marek Novák. The first is paragraph 83, the House Press 246, the Health Act, today as the first point after the fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 37, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 79, against 48. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, paragraph 86, House Press 257, wants to include the advertising regulation law as the second point today after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 38, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 77, against 45. No consent has been given to the proposal. As a further proposal, the Member has that paragraph 85, the House Press 250, the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, should be the first to be classified as fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 39, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 31. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, paragraph 61, House Press 66, the Civil Code, Mr Novák wants to be the first to be included as fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 40, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 77, against 49. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[18.50 hours]] And as the last proposal from Mr Novák, paragraph 92, House press 273, the Act on Payment, is to be the first to be classified firmly. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 41, 174 Members and Members registered, for proposal 78, against 52. No consent has been given to the proposal. Then there is Mr Patrik Nacher's proposal, paragraph 56, House press 48, a change in the civil and judicial order. We'll vote in option. First of all, the Member wishes to place him as the first item in today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 42, 174 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 79, against 54. No consent has been given to the proposal. In turn, we will vote on this point, on its inclusion as the first item at the meeting on Friday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 43, 174 Members of Parliament, 76, 63. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Lenka Knechtová also wants to include a new item entitled Underfinancing schools in the budget for 2022 and 2023. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of adding a new item to the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 44, 174 Members are registered, for 79, against 30. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Jana Pastuchová's proposal, including a new point Information on the Turów mine. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 45, 174 Members are registered, for 77, against 44. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, Mr Roman Kubíček's proposal to include a new point in the Heating Problem and its effects on end-users - alternatively, wants to include it as the first point today. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting 46, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of proposal 77, against 33. No consent has been given to the proposal. And then put this point first on Thursday 13. 10. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 47, 174 Members of Parliament, 78 against 26. No consent has been given to the proposal. We have the last four suggestions. First, Mr Miroslav Janulík wants item 73, House press 165, it is a Senate bill on the residence of foreigners, to exclude them from the meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of eliminating this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who is in favour of this proposal? Voting with order number 48, 173 Members of Parliament, for 77, against 74. No consent has been given to the proposal. Next, Mrs Margit Balaštíková wants to place a new point, and this is the help of municipalities and cities with an impregnable claim. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal for a new item? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 49, 173 Members of Parliament, for 80, against 30. No consent has been given to the proposal. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová also wants to include a new point, and this is the Transport Minister's report on the transitibility of the railway corridor near Poříčan. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of adding a new item to the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 50, 173 Members and Members signed in, for 76, against 48. No consent has been given to the proposal. And lastly, Mr Josef Kott's proposal on paragraph 6, House press 177, concerns the EET. The Member proposes to exclude this item from the agenda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of eliminating this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 51, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 60, against 96. No consent has been given to the proposal. We will therefore now vote on the whole agenda, including approved and amended amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 52, 172 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 146, against 19. The draft agenda has been approved. And we will proceed as the individual points have been approved. I'll thank you and hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-11-ps2021-041-01-000-000.u90	Have a good evening. We will continue according to the approved programme, namely the item
