ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the next meeting of the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I welcome you all here, I ask for peace of mind. In order to record our participation, I will sign you all out first and please let us all sign up again with our identification cards. Please also ask for a possible announcement of who is applying for a replacement card. Next I say - and again I ask for peace, I know that the beginnings of the negotiations are difficult, I ask for silence in the hall. The following Members asked to apologize for their failure to attend today's meeting: Members of Andrej Babiš - working grounds, Pavel Bělobrádek - health reasons, Milan Feranec - health reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna - health reasons, Miloslav Janulík - working reasons, David Kasal - working reasons, Martin Kolovratník - family reasons, Václav Král - family reasons, Patrik Nacher - health reasons, Nina Nováková - family reasons within 12 hours - again I ask for a little peace - Eliška Olšáková - no reason given, Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková until 11.30 hours - health reasons, Jan Richter - working reasons, Alena Schillerová from 13.30 to 14.30 hours - working reasons, David Šimek - family reasons, Lukáš Vlček from 10 to 15 hours - working reasons and Milan Wenzl - health reasons. He apologizes from the members of the government: Mikuláš Bek - working reasons, Pavel Blažek - foreign travel, Jan Lipavskýý within 13 hours - working reasons and Vít Rakušan - foreign trip. That would be all the apologies received to this day, to this moment. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium has agreed. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] And once again, I ask for peace. Please, if you need to speak, you can go to the lobby. These are proposals that will affect all of us, given how the programme will be discussed. So we already have fixed points, we have a fixed point 21, which is the House press 130 - electronization of procedures, then we will follow point 8, the House printing 56 - plastic products, and point 12, the House printing 72 - veterinary law. What will be of the Gremia next, our proposal: given that point 110 - the answer of the members of the Government to written interpelation - is not fulfilled, we propose to this Thursday from 9 pm firmly to include paragraphs 107 and 108 of the approved programme, which is a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Andrej Babiš and a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. We then propose to discuss points from the Treaty block, first reading, from paragraph 68. In the event that paragraphs 107 and 108 fail to be discussed, we propose that they continue at 6 p.m. and, where appropriate, focus on points from the so-called opposition window. And now there is still a proposal to include a new item in the approved agenda, and that is the government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, the House print 144, that will be the second reading. The proposal is to place this point firmly on Friday 4 March as the first point. That's all I'm saying. An overview of the remaining points for discussion has been sent to all of you by e-mail. And now I note that I already have an application to change the agenda of the meeting, Mr. Jan Jakob is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can now see that a colleague, the chairman of the SPD club, has come, we have talked about both grémia and today, everyone has been in agreement, but I do not have confirmation from him that this could be a Gremal proposal, which is why, just to be sure, I will read the agenda of the day, and I am sorry, there will be more. So we propose for those, as has been said, the three already firmly classified points that we listed two weeks ago, so for them as the fourth point of today's negotiations to include the original point 78 in the third readings, the House Press 61, the Pan-European Personal Pension Act, as point fifth, the original point 16, the House Press 94, the Consumer Tax Act, as point six, the original point 17, the House Press 95, the draft law amending certain laws in the financial market, as point seven, the original point 2 - now it's two laws from second reading, it's the House Press 68, the bill on payment, as point eight, the original point 3, the House Press 86, the bill, the criminal code. Then we would return to the first reading. As a ninth point, original point 5, House press 70, draft law on maritime navigation, as a point ten, original tenth point, House press 58, draft law on road transport, as an eleventh point, original point ninth, House press 57, draft law on organic farming, as a twelfth point, original point 13, House press 73, draft law on pharmaceuticals, as a thirteenth point, original point 23, House press 138, it is a draft law on the protection of hops, and finally as a fourteenth point, original point 62, House press 98-E, proposal for the approval of the Council regulation on the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. [[9.10 hours]] At the same time, a general, even if not confirmed, agreement was to include the Senate bill, which was originally as paragraph 48, for the 13th hour, by the House press 37. This is a Senate Bill on State Holidays. On these points, because they are all relatively smooth, the overwhelming majority was presented last time by the government, we agreed this way, so we ask for the inclusion, as I just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking around to see if there's any sign-ins on the agenda? They're not, but we're going to vote because it's not a glamorous proposal. I'm gonna sing, I'm calling my colleagues in the O.R. I'll ask everyone to settle down. We will come forward because proposals for changing the programme have been read, for voting, in the order that the proposals have been tabled. I am now merely recapitulating: we will be voting on the inclusion of a number of other points for the already fixed points. Since the numbers have settled, this vote will be on in a few moments. First we proceed to the proposal from the Gremium. I've read the proposal for Thursday from the grémia. On Thursday, from 9 o'clock the proposal will firmly include paragraphs 107 and 108, then discuss the points of the block of the contract and also reclassify the draft law on the State Budget for Friday. We can now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Gremium. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the grémia proposal as it was loaded? Who's against it? In the vote number 100, 175 Members and Members were enrolled, for a grammar proposal 174, against 0. This proposal has been approved. We can now proceed to the vote on further proposals. First, it will be paragraph 78, House press 61, the Act on pan-European personal pension products. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? He's actually gonna be the fourth on the show. Who's against it? Voting number 101, 175 Members and Members signed in for 155, against 19. I'm stating that this point has been included. Furthermore, paragraph 16, House press 94, excise duties. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? It's going to be de facto fifth. Who's against it? In the vote number 102, 176 Members and Members were enrolled, for 174, against 0. The point has been placed. Furthermore, paragraph 17, House press 95, the financial market. Initiating vote on the inclusion of this item. It's going to be de facto sixth. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 103, 177 Members and Members, for 155, against 19. Again the point has been included. Next we have point 2, House press 68, payment service. Once again, I'm opening the vote on inclusion for the previous points. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 104, 179 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 178, versus 0. We've lined up. There is also point 3, House Press 86, Criminal Code. I've started the vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? In the vote number 105, 179 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 178, versus 0. This point has been included. The following is point 5, House press 70. It's a sea cruise. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion in the proposed show? Who's against it? In the vote number 106, 179 Members voted in favour of 175, against 0. Even the sea cruise was included for the previous fixed points. Furthermore, paragraph 10, House press 58, this is road transport. I have re-elected the vote. Who's in favour of the previous points? Who's against it? In the vote number 107, 179 Members voted in favour of 177, against 0. Again firmly classified as the order. We are also going to include point 9, House press 57, as logical agriculture. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 108, 179 Members voted in favour of 177, against 0. Once again, it was included in that order. [[9.20 hours]] We now have point 13, House press 73, medicines. I've started the vote. Who's up for a firm ranking? Who's against it? In the vote number 109, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 178, against 0. Once again, it will be in order. Now item 23, House printing 138, the protection of hops. This law may be included. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 110 vote, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 178, against 0. Again it was included in the order. The last of this series is paragraph 62, House press 98, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. I've started the vote. Who's up for a firm ranking? Who's against it? In voting number 111, 179 Members and Members are enrolled, for 157, against 19. Once again, we have dealt with this point, it will be included. There is still a proposal to place paragraph 148, House Press 37, Senate Bill on State Holidays, firmly at 13:00 today. In short, this is the new National Resistance Day and the Day of the exit of Soviet troops. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this firm assignment today at 13:00? Who's against it? The number 112 vote includes 179 Members and Members of Parliament, for 176, against 0. This point was firmly placed today at 13 o'clock. This is how we dealt with all the proposals to change the show. During the vote, I received an application with the priority right of Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the Czech Republic. Before the counter comes, I'll make a new apology. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for working reasons for the whole meeting today. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have also been asked from the opposition ranks to give brief information on how the situation around Ukraine is developing. That, of course, is what I want to do. It'll just be brief and up-to-date information. The situation, of course, is developing all the time. We are trying to inform the public about all the steps we are doing and about the risks and security that the Czech Republic has. I also informed about most of the longer-term measures taken by the government on Monday at a meeting of representatives of all parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, including the ANO and the SPD movement. Thank you for attending the meeting, and thank you for the very substantive debate, for the questions and answers that we have been able to provide, so I think that some information has been heard from your presidents and experts on foreign policy. However, today I would like to briefly mention three areas: firstly, what is related to refugees arriving in the Czech Republic, then I will briefly mention the help we are providing to Ukraine, and finally, I will mention the energy situation, or the energy supply, as it looks at the moment. As far as refugees are concerned, we really must say that not only do we expect a migration wave of people from Ukraine to come here, but it is already coming. It's hard to talk about some numbers, but you could actually say that in the last few days or hours about 20,000 people have come to us, and that number will certainly grow very quickly. A new refugee reception system has been set up, web pages www.nasiukrajinci.cz have been established. That's very important. It is a roofing website that coordinates small and more important help in the Czech Republic, whether it is accommodation, hygienic needs, transportation and all the things related to the arrival of refugees, i.e. www.nasiukrainci.cz is very important from this point of view. I am also saying this because there are also links to Ukraine's regional assistance centres. This is something I will mention in a moment, but it is a reference to where the Regional Assistance Centre is and how it works that can be found on this page. We have also created a nonstop telephone line working for the citizens of Ukraine, of course in their language. It is also important that they manage to get the key information they need at that point. The important thing is that with mobile network operators in the Czech Republic we agreed that anyone who comes here and has a Ukrainian SIM card will receive an automatic SMS message with basic contact data and basic information in Czech and Ukrainian. So the moment he arrives, he has a Ukrainian SIM card, appears in the territory of the Czech Republic and joins the network, has the necessary information to know what to do and who to turn to. We have set up a National Assistance Centre for the assistance of Ukraine. This is a nonstop functioning central body located at the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps in Prague. There, police officers, firefighters, the asylum and migration policy department, the management of refugee facilities and other important institutions work together. The basis of the activities of the National Assistance Centre here is also cooperation with the Governors. This also created regional assistance centres, which will work in all regions of the Czech Republic, which is important. The centers will also serve as hotspots, which means that there will be registered new arrivals of Ukrajinec fleeing the war. So the system will not be such that everyone will come to one place in the Moravian-Silesian region, as it has been so far, but it will be so that these hotspots, registration points, will work in all fourteen regions of the Czech Republic. There will be all the operations necessary, from registration to medical examination - doctors, health professionals will be present - or directed to the labour market. We have also agreed with the Administration of State Material Reserves, which will provide storage facilities for storage in our territory and, as they say, removal of humanitarian aid. To do this even better, we decided to send 50 police officers directly to the Slovak-Ukrainian border, because, on the one hand, it is the help of Slovakia that asked for it, and, of course, it is also advantageous for us, because our officers have information directly from where people from Ukraine are going to the European Union, and we have a better overview of what their target country is. We can better prepare for this because we know how many people roughly want to go to the Czech Republic, and that we are and will be the target country, that is what we must assume in this case. Police have also provided us with a number of preventive measures to help Ukrajinec and to cope with such a stronger wave, which is already here, but which we are still waiting for. [[9.30 hours]] We have simplified - and that is what we want, we are working on it, and to some extent we have already done this - we have simplified access to the labour market. A cizinec with a special visa for employment purposes will apply to the employment office of the Czech Republic for an employment permit. This will be obtained immediately, so it will have immediate access to the labour market in the Czech Republic. We are now working on legislation in this direction to allow foreigners from Ukraine free access to the labour market without a work permit. We would like to present this legislative regulation in a state of legislative emergency. Now we are still debating that this would be a more comprehensive regulation concerning all the areas that we need to adapt legislatively in view of the expected migration from Ukraine. We should discuss this with the government soon. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also placed a reference to bilingual information on its website. Ukrainian friends are informed in the form of a web site, employment office, where there is clear information for both those who are coming and those who have been working here for some time. And that has to do with my last point, unless... The help is also directed at those who have been here for some time, but so far they have been in the so-called grey zone. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wants to act preventively so that even these Ukrainian citizens have sufficient information on how to obtain legal work in the Czech Republic. So, to sum up, we're ready, we're working on getting through the migration wave or the wave of refugees coming from Ukraine, and we're doing everything we can to make it go as smoothly and humanely as possible, given the human fates of those people who are in a desperate situation for us in these hours to save their lives, they are coming, and we're ready to help them. This leads me to the second point, that's helping Ukraine. Just very briefly, because there's enough information here and in public. We are helping humanitarian, military equipment, we are helping with international action, we have concluded a contract for medical assistance with the Ukrainian armed forces. This means that under the agreement the Czech Republic can and will receive people from Ukraine for treatment. We deliver traumatic packages through the Red Cross, which is of course extremely important in these hours. We have provided a tied money donation of CZK 10 million for medical supplies, we have released another CZK 300 million to people who have to leave their homes due to the conflict, we are ready to supply the Ukraine with blood supply at its request. The Minister of Finance will come upon the government with a proposal to make donations to Ukraine subject to the same regime as donations within the European Union. And then, of course, there's this thing that I've repeatedly informed about, and other members of the government, Madam Secretary of Defense, and that's help in terms of military material. We provided the Ukraine with military equipment and ammunition of approximately 600 million crowns. It is also in line with what President Zelenskyj has asked me to do, and we will continue to look for opportunities and help in this area, on the basis of the demands of the Ukrainian Party as well. The last topic or last remark, which is also often asked by the public and entrepreneurs, is the energy supply, as the Czech Republic is doing, as we are prepared to make deliveries from Russia, whether oil or natural gas, significantly reduced or possibly completely stopped. I must say that oil and gas reserves in the Czech Republic exceed both European and national levels. As far as oil is concerned, that's where the situation is good. Oil and oil products, there we are indeed significantly above European level. We have a limit of 90 days of average imports of the previous year. Of course, the Czech Republic is fulfilling this, we have something extra, so we can say that we have reserves of oil and petroleum products for more than three months. So in the case of oil, the problem really wouldn't be, it wouldn't be significant. As far as gas storage tanks are concerned, of course, the situation is a little more complicated because there is another way of dealing with gas, but also because there is no state role in the case of storage tanks that is so significant, or there is very minimal. However, gas storage tanks have a capacity of around 4 billion cubic meters in the Czech Republic, which means that when it comes to conversion per capita, gas storage capacity in the Czech Republic is one of the highest in Europe. Again, when it comes to conversion per capita, I say. Currently 700 million cubic meters of gas are stored in these containers in the Czech Republic, which would be enough for about a month in current daily collections. So even with the gas, we have a monthly reserve, even if those supplies... or even if the Russian Federation's vans stop completely. He would have gone from somewhere else, there are four possibilities in Europe, and it's not all one way, but even if anything happened, we have at least gas for a month to add that if the freezing weather ends and we get to the warmer stages of the year, then, of course, those supplies will be enough for a longer period of time. Of course, we also talk regularly with other states and the European Commission because alternative options are being prepared - if there is a complete halt or a significant decline in gas supply from Russia, today Europe is able to replace those resources from other suppliers for this year. It wouldn't be easy, but it would be possible. But as I say, the Czech Republic currently has at least 30 days' supply without having to - according to current daily consumption - without having to save or anything like that. I'd like to add one last piece of information to that. According to the transmission system operator NET4GAS, no problems with the supply of gas from the Russian Federation to the European Union are recorded or reported. This means not only that there has not been a halt, there has not been a reduction in those supplies, they are delivered in an agreed, contracted volume and there are no signals at the moment that this should be otherwise. So at this point, we need not worry about enough energy, energy raw materials in terms of oil and gas in the Czech Republic. But, of course, we are also working with the blacker scenarios, and we are trying to ensure that we are as secure as possible in the future as possible. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, so much my brief information. I'm sure we'll have a chance to get back to it. Tomorrow I will be present at the intercessions, so of course I will be happy to answer other questions related to this difficult topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u5	Thank you. We can now proceed to the first point in today's negotiations, which is paragraph 21... Madam Secretary with priority rights, yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u6	Thank you. I won't be long, the Prime Minister said all the important things. I just might want to point out that right now, actually, in a little while, we're gonna have a meeting, or there's gonna be a government meeting in the afternoon, where we're gonna approve another package, this time military medical assistance. It will be military medical material worth over CZK 20 million. I also met with representatives of the arms industry on Sunday afternoon, who asked for the maximum possible cooperation with our resort, because they too have some opportunity to provide gifts to Ukraine. There is a need to make these gifts, because it is military material, being processed by the Ministry of Defence. That's what's happening right now. I suppose I'd put this point on some other government this week. I am already in this spirit with the Prime Minister. At the same time, we are redoing some strategic documents in terms of faster drawdown of framework contracts, because after the meeting on Sunday, there were clear tasks as well as the acquisition department or the acquisition section, so that some of the possible commodities that we can now obtain and relate to military material, so that we can order, in time, obtain as soon as possible. That's what's happening. It's really like a puzzle, you take out one of the blocks, and if you don't want the whole thing to collapse, then it all has to sit in those acquisition processes, because of course we all have a huge euphoria now, and we want to help, but then the National Audit Office will come and deal with whether or not some processes have been followed. So we're really trying to speed up the purchases within the Ministry of Defence department now, because it's clear to us that the way I sat with the representatives of the arms companies on Sunday, so other states are sitting, other countries with their arms companies too, and that now it's going to be a bit of an overhang of demand over a possible offer. At the same time, we are also trying to find out in some countries about how they are doing with their supplies. So I really want to assure you that we're on several fronts from the Department of Defense. The Czech Republic is currently negotiating about the possibility of being the leading country of the battle group of alliance presence in Slovakia. We plan to contribute 400 soldiers to the group. So far, the information is preliminary. However, please have information as the Chamber of Deputies, so far it is assumed that Germany might also be involved in this grouping, that Poland, Slovenia and the United States of America might be involved, and the Netherlands is also involved. The United States of America will move to Europe another circus of 7,000 soldiers, in particular tank brigades, artillery batteries, combat squadrons and division headquarters including security features. Most importantly, colleagues, there is finally a broad consensus in the Alliance on the need for a substantial increase in defence budgets. In this respect, Germany's announcement, which has so far been very modest in trying to achieve a level of 2% of GDP, is absolutely groundbreaking that it will even increase its defensive spending above this threshold. And Germany, as well as the Czech Republic, is creating a special fund to modernize the German armed forces. There will be EUR 100 billion in this fund in Germany. The other things, the summits, the negotiations of the Heads of State have already been discussed by the Prime Minister, so I don't want to keep you from doing that. I'm ready here, you can come ask me anything, and I'd be happy to answer that. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-000-000.u7	And since there are no more priority rights, we can now proceed to point number
