ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 / House print 144/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Minister, take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you, on behalf of the government, to the draft state budget for 2022. If I were to characterize it in one sentence, the sentence would be: responsible anti-inflationary governance without raising taxes. First of all, let me make some general remarks about what the first reading of the state budget is about. Today we will focus together on the basic parameters as in previous years. This means that the task of the Chamber of Deputies is either to approve or reject the basic parameters of the budget, i.e. total revenue, total expenditure and, unfortunately, state budget deficit. When we look at the figures, I have to say that the proposed budget deficit is almost 100 billion lower than the one proposed by the previous government and which we have in the system as the House press 32, if memory does not deceive me. The proposed deficit of the State budget is 140 billion lower than the result of the management in 2021 and 220 billion lower than the proposed deficit approved by the Chamber of Deputies for 2021. Just a reminder, the communist, socialist and YES parliamentary clubs voted for the $500 billion deficit. We promised that the proposed budget deficit would be less than CZK 300 billion. If you look at the numbers, you will find that if there were no additional - I call them inflation - revenue and if there were no additional expenditures in the same logic, we would actually fulfill our promise and the proposed deficit would be below CZK 300 billion. At the same time, thanks to the additional revenue, we can also manage additional expenditures. The additional revenue is CZK 62 billion, this figure is based on the January macroeconomic forecast, and we have included 42 billion additional expenditures, half of which go to extraordinary pension valorization. We've known the exact number since Monday, Tuesday. We've allocated 21 billion crowns for this. On Monday, the Czech Statistical Office announced and published the level of January inflation, which is unfortunately almost 10 percent, 9.9 %. On the basis of this, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs immediately prepared a proposal for a government regulation on the extraordinary valorisation of pensions. And although the government has 50 days to do it, Wednesday, two days after this issue was published, the government approved this regulation from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I can announce that the average pension - I note the word average, that is, not for every pensioner - will increase by CZK 1 017 from 1 June 2022. Now let me officially say on the microphone the numbers you all know that are listed in the House press. This means that the government proposes that the total revenue should be 1,613.2 billion against the original proposal 1,551 - that is, plus 62, the total expenditure of 1,893.2 billion against 1,927.6 of that last proposal and the deficit by simple mathematical operation, by excluding expenditure, is 280 billion against the original proposal, which was 376.6 billion. As I have already said, the draft budget contains savings of 77 billion, and because the state's expenditure is divided into two basic categories, current and capital expenditures, so current spending is savings of 62 billion, capital expenditures of 15 billion. [[9.20 hours]] Maybe first I'll comment on the capital costs, because the number doesn't sound positive for the first listening without a deeper analysis. However, I want to say that the only clue all members of the government have assessed investments in their department was whether we are able to implement this investment this year or at least sign a contract this year. And we found investments worth about CZK 15 billion, which are not prepared so that we could put them in the state budget with a calm conscience. The main reason is we're in a deficit. If we had - and we could have done so - included these investments, we would have borrowed for something that we know in advance that we will not consume this year. [[It's busy in the hall.]] I don't think any of us, any of our citizens would take a loan for something they know they won't just buy this year or invest it. Even so, investments, proposed investments, remained worth CZK 213 billion. And just a reminder, from the state budget results to 31. 12. 2021 last year, the investments proposed were approximately 189 billion, so the 230 (?) billions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the most important law of this year. I beg you to pay attention to the Minister, even for that reason, so that he has the opportunity to concentrate on his performance. I beg you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Thank you all if you follow this request and this request. Meaning, the 203 (?) billions of proposed capital expenditures are 14 billion higher than the plan for 2021 in the approved budget, and because, unfortunately, last year, the final account was 177 billion, it is 26 billion higher than the reality of 2021. All ministries have guaranteed their ministers and ministers that this number is realistic and that they are able to invest the 203 billion effectively and wisely this year. We'll see in about ten and a half months if they did, if they didn't, so we'll ask those who claimed it, how is it possible that we budgeted the money for nothing? When we figure out the total expenditures of last year's budget and total capital expenditures, we figure out that it was about 9.3 percent of all state budget expenditures, that 203 billion is about 10.7% of all expenditures. Once again, we promised that we would try to have at least 10 percent of investment spending each year. This draft budget contains this commitment and this promise. I think that if there is interest today or at second reading, individual members and members of the government are able to explain in detail which investments they have identified in their budget that they are not prepared to take place this year. Now, I'm going to spend some time on these savings in the area of current spending, that's the second category of state budget spending, the one that's much higher. If we subtract 1,893 minus 203, we're going to get a huge number of 1,690 billion. In other words, current expenditure - current expenditure - is higher than all revenue from the state budget by CZK 77 billion. We have not been able to stop and turn this unfortunate trend for time and legislative reasons. It is clear to us that this cannot be repeated over the long term, because we would have all the investment plus other current expenditures on debt, and I think that is simply not sustainable. And the 1 690 billion is already humiliated by the 62 billion savings we found. That means, at the moment we didn't look for the savings, the ratio, the excess of current spending over all state revenues, would be nearly CZK 270 billion. Where we found the savings. More operating expenses, the term used in the methodology of the state budget. If I were to simply explain it, these are classic operating expenses, rents, energy, purchased services, everything you know from your households or from your businesses. That's where we found 13 billion crowns across the resorts. We said that we would particularly reduce non-investment Czech subsidy programmes for entrepreneurs. In this regard, we took the first step this year. The most significant item in this area is reduced subsidies for renewable energy sources by CZK 8 billion. Furthermore, we have reduced the proposal that the Government has sent to the Chamber of Deputies, the total expenditure on civil servants' salaries, which has decreased by about CZK 9 billion against the proposal from the House of Press 32. However, what is important to say in this area, when you compare the total salary expenditure against 2021, is 7 billion in the budget, and because for incomprehensible reasons for me, but let us take it as a fact, this item has left billions of last year's units in order, so the wages in volume are likely to increase by 9 to 10 billion against 2021. I merely point out that it was the regulation of the Government of Andrej Babiš, which we revised 12 days after the deployment, that government prepared and approved after the lost elections. Not in advance, I would understand. I recall the words of the former minister last March when she said: nothing to anyone, not to policemen, not to firemen, not to soldiers. And that's what the last government changed after the lost election. We have approached this responsibly and believe us that we are not pleased that we could not add to the tariffs to all civil servants. We are not happy about this, but we simply cannot afford more than what the government has approved, because even this increase goes to debt. As I was saying, actually hundreds of billions of current spending is above all state budget revenues. We're not happy about this. The way out of this is basically simple as a password, in realization much more complicated. We have to move towards legislative change, we have to slim down the state, we have to cancel the agendas, the forms. There's no way we have such great bureaucracy. Then we will be able to reduce the number of tables, and therefore we will have fewer civil servants, yet they may have higher salaries. And even among civil servants, what pays everywhere. You have great civil servants, they're supposed to have great salaries, then we have average employees, they should have average salaries, and then we have the other ones, and there's quite logical what salaries they should have. The government's decision to maintain payments for state insured persons at the level of 2021 is a point that raises great controversy. I will reply directly to the criticism that this is not based on a change of legislation. I will answer yes, this criticism is justified and true, but you will probably recognize it from the opposition benches too, that it is impossible to prepare, discuss and approve the law in those 77 days, neither in the Chamber of Deputies nor in the Senate. Next week, no later than next week, this proposal will be submitted to the Government, then it will be sent to the Chamber of Deputies, and from the decision of the Government, I will defend this bill in both chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. [[9.30 hours]] But once again, I have two basic things to say, two basic messages. Firstly, this decision has no impact on the increase in health care salaries by 6 percent. No influence. This means that salaries will be increased by these 6 percent. Secondly, at the joint meeting with the Minister of Health and the management of all health insurance companies, we were assured that this decision had no impact on the extent and quality of healthcare provided. At the same time, we promised them that we would look together, Minister of Health and I, a mechanism for automatic valorisation of payment for state insured persons. When we find him, we'll submit the bill to the government, and then to you and your colleagues in the Senate, because we think that if we find the right valorisation formula, it'll bring the required stability to the health insurance system. When we look at the additional cost of 62 billion, you have it described quite in detail and honestly in the Houses of the Press, I will now explain why I call it the additional inflationary revenue. We're not happy about this. But it is fair to admit that, due to inflation, we expect roughly 35 billion higher social security revenues, or hence from wages and salaries, roughly 18 billion higher income than estimated, from VAT. In some other taxes, on the contrary, we are counting on a decline against the plan. However, the government did not determine the numbers. They copied it there, a macroeconomic prediction from January this year, where inflation, growth, etc. are also estimated. I'm going to say this in detail probably for time reasons only after the President's speech. And we took all the money from the macroeconomic forecast and we put it into the state budget. I mean, according to the law, the State has established an independent institution of the National Budgetary Council, whose main task is actually to issue opinions on the state's management and also on laws that can have a major impact on public budgets. That position, if I were to interpret it in a simple way, maybe I will let the chairman of the budget committee take a closer look, because both President Eva Zamrazilová and another member of the National Budget Board, Mojmír Hampl, participated actively in the budgetary committee's discussions and stated this: after four years, the necessary, necessary turnover in the government's budgetary policy is taking place. In principle, they welcomed the proposal with a statement, and it is also a statement by many economic experts in the public space in the debates that it is only the beginning and that further and difficult steps are still waiting for us, among other things, to get to the state that current expenditure will not be higher or at least such a big difference between current expenditure and the total revenue of the state budget. Moreover, this forecast was assessed by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, which identified it as realistic. And according to the information from the Deputy Minister of Finance and the people who have been involved in this meeting for a long time, they say it was perhaps the first time they remembered that the assessment that it was a realistic scenario that it was unanimous. I assume that the amount of additional revenue will not be a big political debate. In my opinion and in the opinion of the entire government, these are objective data, objective figures. From the extra expenses, I've already talked about extraordinary valorization. That's about half of the 42 billion we've invested in the draft state budget. Additional additional expenditure, and I will take it from the amount that was not in the original budget. Some of them couldn't have been there, like the extraordinary valorization, that's what we need to say. Some I'm convinced they should have been there by now. Given the level of inflation, given the rising basic interest rate, we have increased the estimate of expenditure on state debt in view of CZK 5 billion cautiously, from CZK 45 billion to CZK 50 billion. Six years ago, there were 40 billion crowns on this item. Together, I feel that with all the votes in the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of whether the members and members of the club members are sitting in opposition or government benches, we have approved an amendment on the housing allowance that has passed through the Senate and signed by the President. There we discovered additional expenditures of 3 billion, with the government in this bill and thanks to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies being given new authority, so that, where appropriate, if those prices continue to grow more than expected, they can change the basic figures that depend on the housing contribution. We have been criticized for not launching compensatory programmes for entrepreneurs in the long run. So let's say in the original draft state budget, there was one big zero to compensate entrepreneurs. One big zero. And those who gave zero are still criticizing us that when we approved a compensation of 5 billion, it was wrong. So let's compare zero and 5 billion, and each of us can answer what is difficult for those whose government has or has banned businesses in a certain period of time, which is better, if zero or 5 billion. Additional expenditure - contribution to the European Union plus 2 billion, we are also based on last year's experience, when the ordered contribution increased during the year. However, as we published a few days ago, the Czech Republic remains in the position of a net recipient. When you compare compulsory payments and income from European funds, we are in the position of a net beneficiary. Of the larger additional expenditure, I would mention the financing of private and church schools, which I think should and should not have been in the draft budget, CZK 850 million. And we have increased the state's spending on the Presidency by CZK 400 million, with the fact that if the amount proves not to be sufficient to manage the European Presidency with dignity and honour, we are ready to increase the expenditure there. These are, I would say, basic facts, basic data on the draft budget. I am certainly prepared to answer specific questions or suggestions. I think that a more detailed debate awaits us between the first and the second, and then mainly in the second reading, when I anticipate dozens of amendments. Finally, let me ask you, on behalf of the entire Government of the Czech Republic, to approve the basic parameters of the budget. And I must say, I look forward to the debate today, at second and third reading. And the last point that doesn't have anything to do with it, but we all see the connection. We're about the 50th day of the budget commission. I understand that no finance minister of any government wants us to be on a budget provisional. And our government is actually the first to work in a budget make-up after the amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act. Responsiblely, I can say that all the resorts got as much money as they wanted. There is no obstacle to the State fulfilling its functions within the budgetary criteria. Yes, sometimes there was a slight problem, sometimes there was a misunderstand, sometimes there was an alibism, an unwillingness to prepare for a new situation, which is completely new. But even these minor hiccups have been successfully solved. And if we can keep up with the timetable we just approved, there's a assumption that we could have a final vote on the draft state budget about 10 March. The bill is written in such a way that it enters into effect at the time of publication in the Collection of Laws. So we have a assumption that the budgetary make-up could end at the latest in mid-March and then we could manage the approved budget. Thank you for your attention. And once again, I look forward to discussing the state budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Minister, and I ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. And now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has signed up with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the petitioner of the State Budget Act is, of course, the Minister of Finance, i.e. Zbyněk Stanjura, but let me also speak briefly here as Prime Minister. Our government certainly had the most complex budget challenge in modern history. We inherited the budget, which ended with a deficit of over CZK 400 billion, and with it ready, we inherited last year's budget, which ended with this deficit, and we dealt with the prepared budget, with the prepared budget for this year, with another deficit of almost CZK 400 billion. Public finances have never faced such a massive attack on sustainability. We've never eaten our own future at this rate before. State debt has risen by half in the last two years. Half in just two years. And everyone, including the pensioners and the recently born children, had a higher debt of CZK 90,000 in two years. Each of us. What does that mean? Well, that means that populism was ruled not only by political but also by budget populism. Everything, regardless of public finances. Regardless of the future. In the middle of last year, in the middle of last December, sorry, in the middle of last December, we started fulfilling the will of citizens. The will for responsible politics. And although many have told us: that is impossible, we have prepared savings of CZK 77 billion in seven weeks. In seven weeks, 77 billion crowns! We prepared the budget without unnecessary delays, worked on it intensively and quickly. And I'm not in the habit, and I don't even like it when government members thank each other here, but at this point in this extraordinary situation, I have to thank the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjur and all the members of the government who worked as a team that they did this extraordinary task in such a short time with such a result. All of this was done in the middle of the Czech wave of the coronavirus pandemic, during the energy crisis, during the escalation of Russian-Ukrainian relations, and we prepared the state budget for this year with a deficit of CZK 100 billion lower than the previous government prepared for citizens. The savings that are here are socially sensitive, and I want to emphasise that again. We didn't rely on people, but we didn't agree on investment. All viable constructions of motorways, roads and railways will have guaranteed funding. The investments will be over CZK 200 billion, i.e. more than 10 percent of this budget. And that's when you compare it with the last few years, those are really unprecedented numbers. In addition, we added another CZK 21 billion to the budget, CZK 21 billion to the pension for our seniors. As of June, the government will increase the average pension to each senior by a thousand crowns a month. This means that pensions will grow fastest for seniors throughout the year in the history of the independent Czech Republic. At the same time, and this also needs to be said, we added CZK 3 billion to compensate entrepreneurs who were damaged by the influence of covideo restrictions, as well as CZK 3 billion to live. This is to help households with lower incomes to deal with the energy crisis. And the Minister of Finance has already mentioned this: how much did the previous government have in its budget for these matters? To an extraordinary increase in pensions - zero Czech crowns. To compensate entrepreneurs - zero Czech crowns. To address the energy crisis - also zero Czech crowns. A big difference between what we had here and what our government came up with. Despite the necessary savings, we have found the means to increase the salaries of those who deserve our thanks for their commitment to the fight against cod, i.e. paramedics, police, firefighters, soldiers, but also teachers who are working on the future by developing the abilities of our children. So where were we saving up? We've been saving up for the state, the authorities, the traffic, the unnecessary expenses. The state must be thin and thin, and we've started this since the first day we started preparing this austerity budget. Some still don't understand why we do it, why we save. Why do we care so much? I have already mentioned that one reason: we must stop eating the future. Today's debt is nothing but tomorrow's tax. And we want to leave a healthy country with healthy public finances for our children here. Not debts and high taxes. And that is why public finances need to be restored, and that is also the difference between responsibility and populism. But there's another reason, and maybe it's more recent. And that's expensive. inflace, dear. We warned the previous government about it last year, but Andrej Babiš's government did nothing. So in January, people's prices rose by almost 10 percent. Last year, we were among a third of the countries of the European Union, where prices grew fastest. Prices grew at all fastest in the part of the European Union, which unfortunately belonged to the Czech Republic. You can't go on like this. There's a need to fight the precious. There's a need to do something about it. You can't sit here with your hands down and count on the Czech National Bank to do something and then swear at it. This isn't the way. We have decided to draw up an anti-inflationary budget, and that is the difference between responsible politics and populism. Yes, half of the price growth, and I'm not hiding it, I've prepared it, and we've never denied it, it's caused factors outside our country. But we've created about half of it here in the way the previous government has managed. And that's why we're coming up with this austerity budget. We can call it the anti-inflationary budget. Because we have to stop the inflation spiral. Now and here. Now and here, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop the inflation spiral. And you have a chance to help us and with your votes to stop the precious. Some say to us: You should do it differently, you should raise taxes, and you caused it by reducing taxes last year, you helped it out of the opposition. But ladies and gentlemen, this is not a budget issue. Budget revenue will be increased by CZK 228 billion this year. About CZK 228 billion. So the problem is definitely not on the revenue page, on the revenue side of the budget, but the problem is in expenditure. And we were just focusing on spending. And not raising taxes is absolutely right, and it's important. Of course, the highest share of taxes is paid by the middle class. It's practically everywhere in the world. But at the same time, of course, it is also necessary to say that the middle class uses the most of the public services, so there is some justice in it. But it can't be overdoing it. The middle class mustn't overload too much. And until recently, the Czech Republic had one of the highest labour taxation in the whole of the European Union. It is a good thing that we have reduced taxes, and it is important and right that we do not increase taxes even in this situation, because we need to leave people money for the expenses they have to pay. For mortgages, for spending on children, and, of course, for spending on more expensive energy. Because because they have lower taxes, they are able to handle it better. And if that were not the case and we would have increased taxes, we would have another tens of thousands of households who could not cope with energy poverty. [[9.50 hours]] And when I talk about energy poverty, I must also remind you that we helped those who can no longer help each other, for example, by increasing their contribution to housing, and this in practice is what is called solidarity responsible or also addressed aid. Not populism, not everything, even those who don't need it, but help those who need it, and leave money in their wallets. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is presenting a budget for the first time, it is not quite our budget, it is a revised budget, but we are presenting it. It's a record-time budget with a record deficit drop. A huge piece of work has been done on it, a necessary work that we must do not for the present, but mainly, or also, for the present, but, of course, for the future. In fact, if the current debt trend and its dynamics were to continue, we would soon become an economically unstable country, which would be a risk to all citizens living in that country, working, paying taxes, receiving a pension or investing here, and we could not allow that. According to the National Budget Board, Czech public finances have been on an unsustainable path in the last two years, and the expected rate of increase in public debt has started to deviate not only from the countries with which we have compared in the past, but also often from countries with which we have never wanted to compare. So many statements from the Supreme Budget Board. That is why our government had to act and why it is presenting this budget. So I, once again, join you in calling on the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Government, ask for the support of this anti-inflationary budget, because it is the right step. The right step to stop the debt and stop the cost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would now like to interrupt our negotiations for about seven minutes, yes, the President recommends five minutes, so we would interrupt our negotiations for five minutes, given that the President of the Republic is expected to arrive. I'm just pointing out that the President's arrival in the O.R. is expected at 10 o'clock. Then we will continue to discuss this point. So now we've got a five-minute circus break. I would also like to ask you, given the President's arrival at 10 o'clock, to be in your seats on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I ask you to take your seats in order to keep your voice down, because I am telling you that in a few moments, Miloš Zeman will be visiting the Chamber of Deputies, visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. [[They're ringing fanfares from the opera Libuše. The Assembly rises to welcome the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman and give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u9	Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, thank you for your permission to take off the respirator. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Prime Minister and Mr Finance Minister, who will be my victim today. Let me remember a little bit. It was the 1990s, namely, when I became, or was elected, chairman of the Federal Assembly Budget Committee, and that was the first time I encountered the issue of the state budget. Then I met this issue as the President of the opposition party, as the President of the Chamber of Deputies, as the Prime Minister and now as the ninth President. And when I think about the 32 years, I realize that I'm ending the time of the discussion that's being discussed, and there's some sort of old-age reconciliation, a smile on the problems that I thought were crucial before, and, on the other hand, an attempt to come up with a kind of comparison of different perspectives, something that's at least a little bit closer to the truth. Allow me, therefore, this historic introduction and I would now like to move on to the substance of the matter. The state budget, as we all know, is not a matter of accounting, it is a matter of economists. And each of the economists should admit color and say what economic school they are applying to. It would be easy if there was one single economic school, but it isn't. So I'm applying to John Maynard Keynes, who wrote about the state budget to carry out the so-called countercyclical function, which means that at the time of economic depression, fiscal expansion, i.e. the deficit state budget, but, on the contrary, at the time of economic boom, the budget should be restrictive, in such a way that it should not only be balanced, but that it should be surplus, i.e. to pay off past debts. Sorry to even give you these well-known facts, but I do this because even those who report to Keynes usually only remember the first part of his sentence, which means the deficit funding, and they forget the second part. We are here to contribute together to the growth of economic performance and thus to the growth of the standard of living of our citizens. From this point of view, the state budget is only an instrument, it is not an objective, it is not a matter in itself. That is why it is good to ask how the submitted but also the previous draft state budget corresponds to this function of economic instrument. Most of our economy's forecasts suggest that there will be a slight, about 3% growth after overcoming - if any - the covid pandemic, which can be seen as an economic boom with a certain dose of optimism. This means, therefore, that the budget should be focused at this stage on the repayment of past debts, which were undoubtedly there. And I don't criticize these debts at all. Fiscal expansion is a legitimate instrument of budgetary policy at a time when gross domestic product declined by about 4% due to the aforementioned pandemic. But now it is time to pay back the debts, and this time has fallen on the present government. And let's see how this government deals with it. I would like to try to help the government and Members find tools to pay off debts at this point. And if you reject my genius suggestions as always, I'll ask Jack Nicholson, at least I tried. I would like to remind you that every fox praises its tail, and every author of the draft budget gives it labels that are often not true. The draft budget, which we are now beginning to discuss, is referred to as anti-inflationary. I would like to tell you that I consider it upside-down. The draft budget submitted to you is considered to be pro-growth. I'd like to tell you that it's not pro-growth. And that's the friendly criticism that I have to justify. I'll start with what's harder. I'm going to start by looking for revenue sources because it's a conditio sine qua non if we're going to achieve a balanced or even surplus budget. As Prime Minister, I said that a trained foxterier can cut expenses, but finding sources of income requires some economic intelligence. So what do I want to recommend as a source of income? I will begin with the greatest, and I admit, the most dubious. Almost every political party in its programme had the abolition of tax exemptions with varying degrees of accent, but I do not know a party that would not be involved in this topic. But if you look at the reality of this draft state budget, he's basically not interrupting any tax exemptions, and I think it's a big mistake. By the way, the Minister of Finance here has publicly declared that she has abolished tax exemptions for CZK 13 billion. I thank her for this and note that the total amount of tax exemptions is CZK 380 billion. I repeat once again: 380 billion crowns. If political courage were not lacking in this House and this government, you have a surplus budget in your hand and you are paying off debts. [[10.10 hours]] What's the problem? A lobbyist group, sometimes even a mob group, who once, some time ago, resisted this exception, and if you know the theory of inherited interests, vetoed interests, it defends its inherited interests and does not allow and does not allow. Such a case, and I will now partially commend the government, was the subsidies for renewable resources that launched the so-called solar tunnel. I commend the government for reducing expenditure here by 8 billion, and I criticise the government for not reducing it by 27 billion, which was the original draft budget for the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I fully acknowledge the argument that a change in the law is needed to do this, because once upon a time, the mob group of solar barons - in the good faith of Members - pushed through these laws on the promotion of solar energy. This made solar energy, which was then in diapers, one of the most profitable businesses in our history, and until we find the courage to change that law, then we will not be 27, but 19 billion crowns every year completely unnecessary. When I spoke with Minister Stanjura, we talked about the need to remove tax exemptions. But, Minister, I don't see much of this in the draft budget yet, and Prime Minister Fiala informed me that you are preparing to abolish tax exemptions. So I understand that it takes political courage. For example, we were having fun that he would never come to cancel the taxpayer's discount, right? Because it is income to the state budget of over tens of billions of crowns, exactly, but on the other hand each government has its voters and vox populi, vox dei, so the discount on the taxpayer will not only be cancelled, but you have even increased it. [[Fifty.]] Well, I'd like to point out that tax exemptions are - do you know how many? 172. I repeat once again: One hundred and seventy-two. If I wanted to follow Tomio Okamura, I would have made a comment here during a six-hour speech on 172 exceptions, but since I don't want to bother you, I will only give a simple example of such a completely small tax exemption, which is a discount on a non-profit household member of CZK 7 billion. [[Laughing in plenary]] But 7 billion crowns isn't quite enough, and when a billion to a billion goes to waste, the work will succeed and we will pay back the debts I've been talking about all along. So my criticism, I stress once again, friendly criticism, is based on the fact that you're afraid to cancel the tax exemption because you're afraid of your constituents. Well, something similar is another case, and that's a personal income tax. In the last report of the International Monetary Fund, criticism of the reduction in this tax of CZK 90 billion is given. I repeat, 90 billion crowns. And you know, coworkers and colleagues, what's bizarre about that? This reduction in taxes by common and several means was enforced by two otherwise warring parties, that is the YES movement and the Civil Democratic Party. Both of these parties cost the state budget CZK 90 billion of revenue. On the other hand, and that's the bizarre thing about it, they wanted to like their constituents, but since they both suggested it, none of them could take this reduction as a factor of electoral success. So it's a net loss and zero profit. [[Laughter.]] I suggest we get back to that. I pushed through that time, and Alena Schillerová can confirm that, because she was there, and Andrej Babiš, too, that this law will only apply for two years. And that's what's in the explanatory memorandum. If the International Monetary Fund also criticises this reduction, please consider those who are more inclined to bow with respect to foreign criticism and ignore domestic criticism. And my domestic criticism is very simple. Both of these political parties then claimed that citizens, i.e. employees, would be left with more money in their wallets. Very well. It's an ad absurdum, if we cancel all taxes, the citizens will be left with even more money in their purses. With the small consequence that they will have to pay their health services, that they will have to pay tuition fees or their children, in other words, that it will go to the public sector where there will be no budget money for these expenses. And that is why I consider this budget to be upside-down and not anti-inflationary. Raising money in wallets means increasing the amount of money in circulation. And the amount of money in circulation, those who know the economic theory a little bit, leads to inflation, i.e. price level movements. By the way, I know that we are all aware that we have lost 10 percent, that our savings have been devalued by 10 percent, that real wages have decreased by 10 percent, of course, by including a nominal increase, and although I share the view that 10% of inflation is rather a January phenomenon, because in January, overestimating and overestimating is always a price increase in the ptydepe language of traders, inflation of between 5 and 6 percent can be expected in reality throughout this year. Yes, you'll be more money in my wallets, but the vortex of inflation will suck that money out of your wallets immediately. [[10.20 hours]] In other words, in addition to budget savings, I see a second mistake: lack of political courage, especially when the elections are over, to return to the original tax rate of personal income tax, thereby increasing budget revenues by CZK 90 billion, thereby achieving an surplus budget. Please, allow me to take a little historical turn. I'm not a fanatic who says that at all costs we have to have a surplus budget, and in particular, we're not supposed to get to it by jumping. As one important economist said, jumps belong in the gym but not in the economy. However, in any case, I take the view that a certain reduction in the budget deficit is now possible, and I have tried to give specific examples, to a far greater extent than the current budget deficit is proposed. And now this historic reminiscence, which is meant to lighten my speech so long and boring. Nicolae Ceausescu found out that the Romanian economy was indebted to $3 billion. So he took rational measures and managed to bring this debt down to zero, I repeat, to zero, within a very short period of history. The small consequence was that in Romania it was not heated, lighted and almost did not eat, from which comes the famous anecdote, according to which comrade Ceausescu wakes up at six o'clock in the morning and the whole of Romania wakes up with him. At seven o'clock in the morning, comrade Ceausescu is practicing and all of Romania is practicing with him. And at eight o'clock in the morning comrade Ceausescu eats breakfast and the whole of Romania wishes him a good taste. [[Laughter.]] The end of the historic reminiscence, and now I continue. Because I have managed to find two sources of budget revenue, the 90 billion in the form of a personal income tax, and theoretically, I acknowledge that theoretically, because here political courage would already go into political suicide, 380 billion tax exemptions, I am moving on to budget spending. Dear colleagues, since you did not have the courage to do these two budget operations, the government and the finance minister in particular were forced to make painful cuts, which are somewhat contrary to the claim that this would not hurt citizens. I'll start with the first one, and that's to cut the originally planned increase in expenditure on state insured persons. Look, of course, I agree with the view that there is a need for savings. But there was a password from the totalitarian regime: comrades, we must save whatever it takes. Well, this regulation of state insured people is an example of a so-called blunt budget cut. You know why? It says here, insurance companies have CZK 50 billion in reserves. [[Minister Stanjura: Fifty-six.]] Fifty-six, I know exactly, but let's say round numbers, it's easier to remember. What we don't know is that these reserves can be exhausted over a month and a half. This is an expert opinion from the sources of insurance companies. You can argue that insurance companies are biased in this sense, but even if it were two or even three months, operating on "I can cut the necessary expenses" just because they have created reserves by managing the insurance company well, it is a Bolshevik approach, because I will punish someone for getting rich, and that will make us all poor. And besides, insurance companies have already issued, as you know, a statement that they will be forced to limit the scope of health care. I hope you've all read this statement. If this happens, this draft budget, at the cost of saving the poor CZK 14 billion - the poor CZK 14 billion - will reach the general pissedness of anyone who ever gets sick. Other blunt budget cuts are investments. Yes, you rejoice that investment is still around 10 percent of the total expenditure. In my opinion, investment is investment in the future, and if you ignore the future and prefer the present, you will turn out badly. But again, investment doesn't have the right to vote, investment doesn't have any immediate voters, and therefore it can be ignored by those who look with a drooled finger at the electoral mood. There was a thesis that there was a reason to reduce investment - here it was, Minister, about 15 billion, wasn't there? - the reason for reducing investment is that some investments are not prepared. Excellent. But you forget that there is a project stack in every resort, and if a project isn't ready, it can immediately and enthusiastically replace it with another project. And if you don't like it, there's my favourite project for 260 billion, the Danube-Odra-Labe channel. [[entertainment in the hall, applause by members YES 2011]] And you all know that the author of this project is Emperor Karel IV, and not only that Tomáš a Jan Antonín Baťa were the main supporters of this project in our modern history. People who had entrepreneurial thinking and had the courage to prefer large projects such as this water corridor. So I broke the argument with the reference to the stock of investment projects, both at local, i.e. municipal or regional level, and at central level. And I believe that it is a gross error if, for example, the draft state budget contains a reduction in the originally foreseen expenditure on transport infrastructure within the Ministry of Transport budget. [[Minister Stanjura reaction off the microphone.]] The reduction is there, Minister, but it depends on what you're dealing with. I'm comparing it to the original draft budget. [[10.30 hours]] And again, I'm coming to a conclusion, a return to the Keynesian economy. There are two budgetary areas that have the greatest multiplier effect, that is transport infrastructure and that is housing construction. You reduce the cost of transport infrastructure in the budget, and when it comes to housing, it's an orphan, a oppressed orphan in almost every budget, including yours. I'm coming to a conclusion. Dear fellow Members, I have tried rather than just to desecrate the budget, which is not such hard work, to propose concrete measures on both the revenue and expenditure side. If you happen to accept these measures, you'll get a surplus budget and your voters will kill you. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I am obliged to draw attention to this danger. I'm done. And I end with a remark addressed to the entire government that sits behind me. Dear government, in your programming statement, there is, among other things, the intention of finding a national bird. I haven't read that crap in a long time. [[Laughter and applause.]] However, for the sake of historical truth, I would like to point out to the government that our national bird has been a falcon for 160 years. End of závěr. Once again, I congratulate all Members regardless of their party membership in their election, I wish them that your work should be successful, that they should be happy and that they should be successful, because in politics, success is something beautiful, something that fills us, and something that we remember in our old age with love. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue to discuss paragraph 2. That's the government's bill on the state budget. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has now signed up with priority rights. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u11	I'll wait a little longer. I understand that some will be taken out of the Chamber, so for those who are interested, when the President spoke with friendly criticism, as he called it, I would have taken the liberty of calling it a friendly argument with what was just said. I think it is good to respond to the President's words immediately, so that on that long day we don't forget what was said here. Let's divide my friendly controversy into two parts, as the President said, into revenue and expenditure. Yes, we have tax exemptions for nearly CZK 400 billion. Let's at least grossly divide them into several categories, and I'll tell some of them the firm position of the government of Petr Fiala. The first is - and all citizens who are either employed or do business as individuals - a basic discount on the taxpayer know this. We approved this, its double increase, in 2020, for 2021 plus 3,000 each taxpayer, and for 2022 another 3,000. Roughly, as the President said roundedly, we have 5 million taxpayers who are taking advantage of the basic discount, which is roughly 30,000, slightly higher, so that's 150 billion; 150 billion Czech crowns is the basic discount on the taxpayer. And we're clearly saying that we're not going to cancel this discount, we're not going to suggest it, not because we're afraid of our constituents, but because it's the right thing to do. If we really wanted to cancel it, we would have increased the tax by CZK 30,000 each of those 5 million across the board regardless of the amount of income, and this government really doesn't want to, doesn't propose, doesn't push because it would be a wrong move and our citizens, especially our employees, would lose CZK 150 billion a year. And these five million taxpayers know much better than our government knows what to do with the money and three times better than the last government. So that's the highest tax exemption in volume. So we're already at 250 out of that 400. The second tax exemption we do not propose is because it is right, not because we are afraid of our voters, is: in the Czech Republic we do not tax pensions. [[cancel]] [[cancel]] And that's good, and that's good. If you look at the draft budget, there's about CZK 570 billion on the pensions, including the extraordinary increase, times 0,15 chop, and you have 81 billion in the budget if we tax it. We won't do it, it would be a mistake, it would be bad, every pensioner would lose 15 percent of his pension. Wrong move. So 150 basic discount, 80, maybe over 80, taxing pensions. And we've already got 230, and we're from 400 to 170. Unfortunately, I only have the numbers for 2019, how much was real. Another discount, or discount, which we do not propose, will not be cancelled, because we have pushed for an increase, is the tax advantage for children, whether in the form of a tax discount or a tax bonus. That number is from 2019, it's going to be higher this year, and it was 40 billion a year. Support for families who have children. So we already have 150, 80 and 40, if we add it up, we already have 270 billion that this government won't cut, it won't push. And not because we're afraid of our constituents, but because it would be a wrong move. And I could go on. But there are tax exemptions that we're definitely going to be debating, and we're going to see how we stand up to them. Exemption of proceeds from sales from tied reserve funds. So if I wanted to use the winged sentence of former Prime Minister Paroubek, then which one of you gentlemen has it? I don't think anyone even knows what that means. We could go on like this. [[10.40 hours]] So we'll definitely get back to it, but there's not even tens of billions, there's billions of units, and we'll be looking for them. That's right. We don't turn our noses up over one million, not even one million we save, we don't turn our noses up, because which one of us wouldn't want to have a million crowns? If he had any precautions to get it. This is where we can get him into the state budget. So we're not gonna turn our noses over those... not even those items that don't look like they're bringing in tens or hundreds of billions. But I repeat, we will not disturb these tax exemptions. And it's not because we're afraid of our constituents. We fulfill the wishes of our constituents. We're defending the middle class, and we're not going to raise their taxes this crucially. And we protect the elderly and we don't tax their pensions. And if I wanted to go back to the fake news that claims an outrageous lie about me, we wouldn't even be introducing retirement health insurance. It's an outrageous lie, and whoever's spreading it is consciously frightening our seniors and should be ashamed. In addition to tax exemptions, the President also found income in the tax on individuals from the dependent activity of 90 billion. He says we did it by hand several times with the YES movement. That's right. We took advantage of the opposition, the windows, the opportunities we could find after years of promoting it. We didn't throw those 90 billion out the window. The state didn't invest them badly, it must have left them in people's pockets, in their wallets. The president said, well, that didn't show up in the election. Well, I don't know. We won the election. The YES movement was second. If I add the SPD who voted on it, only these three electoral bodies received more than two thirds of the vote. I did not notice, I did not notice in the electoral programs of those sitting in the Chamber of Deputies that anyone would suggest tax increases. None of the parties sitting in the Chamber of Deputies today proposed an increase in this tax in their electoral programme. What is the result of the election? It's the result of the wish, the idea of what people want from the state. So the voters of the parties that sent us all to the House don't want to raise this tax. We promised them, we didn't raise them. Not because we're afraid of it, but because we think it's right. Investment. Well, I don't have good news for the President. I already talked to him about it nine years ago as Minister of Transport. The Danube-Odra-Labe won't be. And it doesn't matter if we write 200, 300, 400, 500 billion. So I didn't know it was a project from the time of Karel IV, and I thought it was from the first Republic. And it's true that the Bať family supported it. They had respectable results in their business. But when I was Minister of Transport, I was interrogated by a Social Democratic Member from the Zlín Region for the first time, and he asked me: Mr. Minister, when are you going to do this, this is a great project, it is going to be a hundred years. Officials have prepared such a detailed answer to me, when there was a study of a commission, they have read thousands of these pages. I threw it like this, I looked like this, I sat here in these opposition benches, and I said, "Mr. Ambassador, you already answered your own question. If a project has been underway for a hundred years and hasn't started yet, what does that say about the quality of this project? End of discussion. So it's just not gonna be. Apartment construction. We believe in a completely different recipe than that the state will build. That's the most expensive and the least efficient. We believe in the recipe that we will prepare the conditions for it to build a private sector and possibly cities and municipalities if they are interested. It is not only a change in the construction law, but also a flexible transfer of state land from state property suitable for construction, if a particular municipality or a specific city comes up with a good project, and involvement, creating good conditions for the private sector. And we have private sector candidates planning massive housing projects if the state creates conditions for them. And that's right. Yes, we can say that we could have for the transport infrastructure not 203, or the total investment, but 303, 403, 503. I'm just reminding you, last year it was 177, the result. And we're actually borrowing on all those debts. I explained why that is. The President said he broke this argument. I don't think he broke it at all, but he confirmed our argument. And the last of the taxes. I will return to the fact that none of the parties represented in this House wants to raise taxes. The stability of this change is important for tax changes. See if it's not like it's changing right after the election. It is obvious that tax cuts to our employees were a step that brings stability and will pay. And it won't change. This confirms our argument that we made the right decision. So please excuse the brief remark, but I wanted to continue the friendly argument with Mr. President and clearly respond to the views of Petr Fiala's government on his proposals. So I'm confirming that we're going to focus on tax exemptions for those who I don't think are meaningful, those who don't support the family, those who don't substantially increase taxes on employees, and those who don't threaten the income of our pensioners. Investment doesn't have the right to vote, but our voters do. Our voters, when I speak for the majority of the government, they know how important investment is, which is why they gave us the vote and that's why we created the majority here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u12	The honourable Member, honourable Members, President of the Chamber of Deputies, by its decision, number 16 has ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets submitted a resolution delivered as House Press 144/1. And I ask that the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Josef Bernard, take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor. I'll ask the minister to take his seat at the table of the petitioner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. The House and Budget Committee discussed the proposal, dealt with it on Wednesday 16. 2. 2022 to his 7th meeting. And I would like to point out that the Committee on Budgets was attended in particular by representatives of the National Budget Board, President Zamrazilová, Mr Hampl, arrived. And in the debate before me, and in the Minister's comments, I would like to highlight some of the National Budget Council's positions. Surely we must all regard this organisation as an organisation highly erudite, independent and in no way politically influential. Let me quote some of her opinions, which are very positive about the draft budget. The savings in state budget expenditure are significant. The government's task is to strike a balance between a reasonable amount of savings, maintaining the operation of public services and using the most endangered social groups. The budget presented represents a reasonable compromise. There was a debate about Keynesianism. Those debates on this direction of the economy have been dragging since Adam Smith since the end of the 18th century, a classic of economics. Keynesian and classic disputes are obvious. I don't think it's good to be either one or the other, but to take the best out of one or the other. However, we have once again the position of the National Budget Board on whether or not the budget is anti-inflationary. I quote: "In the last two years, the government has been sending money to the economy for unproduced goods, services that have not been done and work that has not been done, all in high deficits. The inflation potential of the money thus spent is clear. Tightening fiscal policy through public spending savings can therefore help to dampen inflation." So much for the previous speakers, the answer from an independent reputable organization that I think we can all believe. [[10.50 hours]] Now, let me introduce you to the budget committee resolution number 46 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, the House's 144, which was adopted at the 7th meeting of the Budget Committee. Following the opening words of Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, Josef Bernard's report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies 1. Approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 according to the House press 144, which are: [[Next law]] (a) the amount of revenue fixed by the amount of 1 bill. 413 billion. 241 miles. 111 917 kroner. The amount of expenditure fixed by the amount of 1 bill. 893 billion. 241 miles. 111 917 kroner. The difference between revenue and expenditure determined by the amount of -280 billion. [[Balance]] (b) the way in which the balance is settled by the following financing items: (a) reducing the state in the accounts of state financial assets by 17 billion. 318 miles. CZK 12,762; (b) by a change in state debt by CZK 262 billion. 681 miles. 980 238 kroner, (c) financial relations between the state budget and regional budgets, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of 1 billion. 743 miles. 662 300 kroner, (d) the financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague in total by region, namely contributions of a total amount of 10 billion. 243 miles. 159 300 kroner, (e) the financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely a contribution of a total amount of 1 billion. 236 miles. 449 400 kroner, (f) authorisation of the Minister of Finance pursuant to Section 4 of the Act and authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to the regions in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 5, to the capital city of Prague in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 7 and to each municipality in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex 8 to the Act. 2. He notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022 (a) it contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the European Union budget of a total of 192 billion. 932 miles. CZK 991 277, and contributions to the European Union budget of a total of CZK 60 billion. koruna, (b) determine the extent of the insurance capacity of Export Guarantee and Insurance Companies a. s. of 238 billion. koruna, (c) contains in Annex No. 9 of the Act a list of the subsidies from the listed chapters of the State budget, provided in 2022, with a designation of their beneficiaries and an indication of their amount, which are not subject to the obligation to declare an application for a subsidy under the budgetary rules. 3. He commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 as follows: On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the text of the resolution, because the relevant committees are informed and some of them have already assigned chapters and headings on the agenda. Therefore, if no objection is necessary, I will refer only to the wording of the budget committee resolution so that I do not have to repeat it all again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u14	Thank you, rapporteur, for presenting the report, which you can then, of course, refer to. I will now read the apologies and then open the general debate. Today, as of 10.30, Mrs Fischerová Romana cancels her apology, Mrs Romana Bělohlávková apologizes all day, and Mr Špičák cancels his apology, and also today from 10 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologises. So I am now opening up a general debate and registering several priority rights. I'll read them in the order she arrived. First will be President Tomio Okamura, then President Schillerová and then President Andrej Babiš. I now ask for the speech of President Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a government draft state budget for this year prepared by the government of Petr Fiala. I will begin by saying that this budget is not new at all, and certainly not good for citizens. It's just an overindexed original budget of Babišův's government, only the ministers made some chess. Of course, I'll get to that even further. Because of the current government, the Czech Republic is still in the so-called budgetary commission, which means that most ministries cannot make payments for potential investments and purchases because they can only draw one twelfth of last month's budget each month. The SPD does not want the country to continue to manage its budget make-up. We have a number of serious reservations about the government's proposed state budget, and we will therefore make a number of amendments. We also take the view that state budgets should be balanced as far as possible or surplus. I do not understand why the draft state budget prepared by the previous government was not discussed in the House by default at the end of last year, when the difference in expenditure compared to the previous budget is only 1.79 %, i.e. CZK 34.5 billion. The current five-police government claimed before the election, basically all last year, that they were ready to rule both by personnel and programming. Turns out reality is completely opposite, and they didn't have anything prepared. That is why we have been in the budgetary commission for two months and because of this government, potential investments or purchases are also limited. We reject the government's proposal that most of the 34 billion the government wants to save, it wants to save on police officers, firefighters, soldiers, non-teaching workers in education and other necessary professions, and by de facto reducing payments for health insurance of state insured persons, reducing fare discounts for students and seniors, and cutting off investment. At the same time, the current government has created three new ministerial posts and has created 74 additional jobs for them at the Office of the Government, so that, in quotation marks, it will employ its, in quotation marks, worthy members. But at the same time, the Home Office will have to move again the purchase of new fire trucks, for which firefighters and the public have been waiting for years. The SPD movement certainly does not want to take money from our decent and working citizens, who are our first priority, and therefore we will propose a number of transfers in individual chapters of the state budget that would support them in this difficult time. It is necessary to cut payments to inadaptable, solar barons, political nonprofits or overpriced contracts. But let's take this one step at a time. [[11.00 hours]] Already the state budget prepared by Babišův's last government was bad from our point of view. Of course, from our point of view, he first followed the priorities of Brussels and not the Czech Republic. And as far as individual resorts and topics are concerned, apart from the exceptions, he has actually added a table there, he has slowed down, according to the government's priorities, without any serious analysis. From our point of view, which is surprisingly beginning to be confirmed by many renowned economists, that there is a need for a revision of expenditure and its reduction, which is achieved primarily by a fundamental reform of the entire public administration, it is necessary to change the creation of state budgets by exposing itself so-called zero- Zero budgeting - and not by indexing expenditures from last year's years indefinitely. The precondition for this step must be, among other things, the rationalization of state agendas and the emerging new systemization of jobs, that is to say, a truly fundamental debyrocratisation of the existing system. Here I speak also for the benefit of the officials themselves, who are drowning in ever-changing and complicated regulations, regulations and decrees. In practice, little is enough - to reach out to professional associations and employers and to start working with them on legislative and other changes to the rules. Why am I talking about this in relation to the budget? Firstly, as I said at the outset, this so-called new budget is not new at all. Petr Fiala's government created it in style: do you like to present something pessimistic as good news? All you have to do is come up with a few suitable methodologies. There's something you're counting on, there's something you're not. You do the stew, and then you use the methodology that suits you best. I think this is how economist Vladimír Pikora commented completely on changes in Czech state budgets. In the case of goulash, which has mixed the old sauce with the government's five-calice, it is the most exhilarating example of how they declaredly reduce the deficit of the state budget. Five-calices have been screaming about how wrong things are over the years, claiming how well they've thought things out and have a recipe for reducing debt, and they're ready to take power. Given that there are former ministers among them, including Mr Kalousek, the finance ex-minister, one might guess they'll come up with an alternative after all. Surprise didn't take place. Quite surprisingly. The government cuts down on the needy people and, on the contrary, increases spending on unnecessary political trades. Besides, we only have a few formal transfers. However, exemplary government work in a negative sense is a savings in health care. This is where the government decided to take billions of health insurance. In their budgets, they counted on the increase in health care. The largest insurance company, the state VZP, which has almost two thirds of all insured persons and especially those state, counted for this year with a revenue deficit of 5.9 billion. Because of Petr Fiala's five-police deficit, its deficit may be some 9 billion higher, or 15 billion. Yes, insurance companies have reserves because they have mostly managed well despite the crazy state that has been spying on them with senseless spending in recent years. For the covid lobby, insurance companies have kept some reserves for a worse time. However, the government has come up with the idea that the government's debt, or, more specifically, its political marketing, will be addressed at the expense of health care, at the expense of health insurance companies. To be clear, the state is the only one who does not take into account inflation in health care, despite higher spending on everything conceivable, from heat to light to food, technology and wages in hospitals. Private insurance payers will, of course, pay more from the New Year. The amount of the minimum deposit of the self-employed person is changed each year because it is linked to the average wage in the national economy. So, for example, from 1. 1. 2022 will increase the minimum deposit of the CFI from CZK 2,393 to CZK 2,627. Depending on the increase in the minimum wage, insurance premiums without taxable income and minimum insurance workers are always increasing. The minimum premium shall be the amount calculated as 13,5% of the current minimum wage. To understand this, the previous government planned and agreed increase for a state insured person was not a whim, but an absolutely necessary standard step, when payments, of course, are also increasing due to higher expenditures. While everyone in health care will have real higher costs, Petr Fiala's government bailed and left higher costs on businessmen, employees, businesses, insurance companies and health systems. And I believe no one thinks we saved anything. On the contrary, if we're spending reserves, we're spending savings. And when we spend it, the government will increase insurance payments, but the insurance and health system will be free of reserves, without money not only independent of the state, but mainly without money immediately and at any time applicable. In other words, Petr Fiala's government will put health care on the brink of economic collapse. Whoever thinks the health crisis is ending is in deep error. Covid, on the other hand, launched a latent disaster. Hundreds of thousands of millions of people who have neglected preventive medical examinations and treatments due to restrictions are at risk of serious diseases, ranging from cardiovascular to oncological. If each third of us is going to get cancer in our lives, that means 10 million people need preventive care, and a third of them, that means 3 million, will need treatment, and a quarter of us, 2.5 million people, will die from cancer. And in the course of dying, we're gonna need a very expensive treatment until death. Covid's hysteria, which has reduced people's access to care and which has really damaged the immune system in a negligible way, is likely to increase these numbers. [[no]] And I hope that everyone who's been freaking out about covid here will be equally aggressively terrified by what really and seriously threatens us for diseases and goes beyond any other pandemic. We have, of course, thousands of delayed operations. We have thousands of new psychic disorders due to covidic hysteria and restrictions. Health will repair these wounds for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. What do you think? From January to February 18th, the government fired 3 billion more for tests, which even very loyal experts say are really useless, only cost us tens of billions, which will be painfully missed elsewhere. Shortly and briefly added and underlined, health care, availability of health care, increased availability of health care, improved health care - unfortunately, this is not the priority of the government of Petr Fiala. But it's a priority for the SPD movement. And it's one of the basic points where we disagree with the government's proposed budget. Yes, even in health care, we can find a thousand percent savings, but it's definitely not area cuts, it's systemic changes. As I said before, there are no long-term reserves in insurance companies. The system is fundamentally ongoing and its sustainability will decrease. Yes, it is not just a retirement system where there is a problem with the ageing population. But it's a health care that nobody pays attention to in this respect because they've managed the insurance system so far. Now that the government's cutting his pen off his reserves, it's important to think very seriously about what to do next. The SPD movement, of course, has proposals. As with pension insurance, we say that there is a need to build another pillar of funding, but that is not some private insurance because those who do not have the rent will not be paid for either pension or health. And we refuse to have two categories of people here. One that doesn't have enough to live a decent life in old age and doesn't have enough to treat you well, and the smaller one that she paid for. [[11.10 hours]] In this respect, there is still a remarkable consensus between the existing ruling parties. Both parties can only deal with spending by raising taxes. I think you'll have an idea how the SPD would handle the situation. In general and in principle, I've been saying this for years. We need to look at budgets, including mandatorial spending from scratch. Analyze what and where needed and give money accordingly. You have to define what I want, then figure out how much it's going to cost, and then find the best ways of financing. A classic case is defense expenses. We have a right-wing mantra and a current government five-wheeler that said we have to put 2% of GDP on arms. Although there's no money in the budget. And then the left that wanted the minimum. A normal intelligent person, a man who is not a manipulated arms lobby and who cares about defending the state, must think completely differently. First, let me define what our defenses are supposed to look like. What he wants and how he'll defend. Then I will prepare some technical fulfillment, also what weapons, what technology, how many soldiers, what expertise, and I will do some calculations on how much it will cost. And then I'm gonna put it in some budget plans. Which, moreover, cannot be for a year in such cases, but must also have a view of ten or more years. This, ladies and gentlemen, should apply to the budgets of ministries everywhere, and even to the government, where we should analyse what we need, how many people, what technology they will do and how much. Not to say, I spent a billion this year, so next year, I need a billion and a half. This is the difference between the view of the budget by the SPD and renowned economists and the view of other political parties. Every economist from the right and from the left will sign the above. Just nobody in the government wants to hear it. Because it's a long-distance run, it's a job, and a lot of leeches would lose a cash cow. Money really is, we're not a poor state, but we can't throw it out the window for what we don't need. We have the senior job of the Supreme Audit Office, the SAO. There are thousands of analyses of the efficiency of the state apparatus or the cost of various projects. In fact, it is enough for each Ministry to create a team that will analyse and correct the reports in synergy with the SAO, or draw conclusions from the findings in the future that we will start learning from mistakes. Of course, in the case of spending, we have basically dissenting comments, whether they are spending on political nonprofits or solar barons. In principle, it is one of the most vile failures of our system, when the state collects taxes from the poor and then redistributes them to billionaires. By the way, EU subsidies are a typical example. What do ordinary people have from subsidies and from membership of the European Union when they do not even have to pay for energy and basic life needs? The current level of state budget revenue in the context of expenditure set is also unsustainable. Expenditure exceeds 30 per cent of gross domestic product, but revenues range only about 20 per cent. Despite this, the government that strangles the elderly elsewhere throws out a handful. When I hear that the bike paths are so expensive because, for example, there must be no greater elevation - apparently so that the cyclist doesn't get tired - I wonder where it ends? Next time, you're gonna turn the cycle path into an escalator, because even on that bike, the cyclist gets tired, and you're not gonna let that happen? Yeah, we're also at the table numbers here. We must draw so much out of the EU! So we're grateful for any project we can pull the money out of. But we have to co-finance the unnecessary overpriced stupidity from our budgets. Not to mention our Eurohujers do not realize that the money from Brussels is not from Brussels, but from our pockets. And that if we include payments that are not included in our contribution and the costs associated with EU membership in general, we are not only at zero, but at minus. Such an example of unnecessary investment is the quite well-known lookout towers in the valley from EU subsidies. In the South Moravian Region, for example. Just to exhaust EU money at all costs, the senselessly set European Union projects, so the lookout towers were built in a valley from which there is nowhere to see. And it was also co-financed from public money in the Czech Republic. So if we resigned from EU subsidies, stopped paying and didn't take anything for it and realized at home and paid only what we really need, it would be much more effective. We might not have so many bike paths, but we might already have repaired roads, a real functional highway from Prague to Brno and a speedway to Ostrava. Regardless of how it got expensive in the Czech Republic and the government is not doing anything about it, so many families with children have no money for the new bike for their children. The growth of the Czech economy, hopefully, awaits us. Unless, of course, the new government, after pushing through the pandemic law, strangles it with some restrictions. But, of course, that is not enough, as long as we are truly a montage West, plus, to an unhealthy degree, one-sided montage cars, while Brussels is planning to liquidate their production. The state must invest in changing the structure of the economy so that there is a greater share of work with higher added value. It's also a long-distance run, but the only one that's gonna get us out of trouble. Unfortunately, in this respect, I am very skeptical of the current government of Petr Fiala, this five-wheeler, because the powers of this government are not sufficient to fundamentally promote a change in the structure of the economy in order to benefit us in the future. And speaking of cars, we need to diversify production in the Czech Republic and reduce the share of the automotive industry in total production. That cut, to cut that cut, so it's clear that someone here won't take my word for it, so that, in the event of a crisis where there's no car sales, something else will feed us. Because we all see the European Union's policy in this segment. This is where I expect the government to propose solutions. There aren't any coming yet. There is certainly a need to reject the European Union's plan to liquidate our economy called the Green Deal EU, or the Czech Green Deal, which is one of the major reasons for increasing energy. Yes, because of the European Union, energy, food are getting more expensive here, and of course, logically, everything else. If we submit to a dictation from Brussels and Berlin, as Babišův's government did, and as the new Fialův government does, we will have senseless expenses and losses that the citizens will suffer from overwhelmingly. And they're coming, unfortunately. [[11.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of income, I would mention another crucial thing, and that is the flow of money abroad. However much we would think that ideas about how to administratively detain money from foreign companies in the Czech Republic are left-wing populism, just look into Europe and you will see that, unlike the Czech Republic, they have some brakes that prevent the flow of money. Last year's figures are not yet available, but in 2019, up to CZK 330.6 billion flowed abroad from multinational companies from the Czech Republic, and in 2020, according to preliminary data from the Czech National Bank, the figure stopped at CZK 190.3 billion. Yes, the decline was caused by the coronavirus crisis, which forced in many companies to limit or stop the payment of profits to owners, but also last year's decision by the Czech National Bank blocking the withdrawal of profits from banks. Here we see that we already have a model, but the Czech National Bank has only set the brake at banks, not insurance companies. For illustration, for example, more than a three-billion-dollar dividend last year sent to the Italian mother Generali Česká pojišťovna. It's the private insurance company that has a monopoly profit on the state-ordered employers' accident insurance. Why doesn't this insurance go to the state, it's a mystery that nobody wants to solve completely mysteriously. So billions are running out on us, and instead of being taken by the state where it has an undeniable right, the government leaves those billions to a foreign bank and instead robs its own health insurance companies and citizens. That's a terrible logic not only shown here by Babišův's previous, but also by the current new Fialův government. Here we can clearly see that the government is not defending the interests of our citizens, but the interests of foreign corporations. From 2014 to 2019 according to the Czech National Bank, the profit drain from the Czech Republic exceeds CZK 250 billion per year. Yes, they are also the sponsors of the STAN movement from the Cyprus tax haven, which until now President STAN Vít Rakušan has been working hard to hide. To this day, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Interior Minister and Chairman of the STAN movement do not want to say who the end owners of those companies from the Cyprus tax havens who sponsored the Pirates and STAN campaign. And the pirát don't care at all, they're just silent because they got warm political corsets, so they've already betrayed your program completely. According to current statistics, the Czech National Bank pays large amounts to its foreign owners mainly companies in the financial services sector, which, despite the above ban, sent CZK 38,8 billion abroad. This is followed by the automotive industry with CZK 37.7 billion and also two branches, which were not badly harmed by the coronavirus crisis, the retail wholesale and the IT sector plus telecommunications. Detailed statistics of the Czech National Bank can also show where the money flows. Suspiciously high amounts end in countries with a reputation for tax havens, namely Luxembourg CZK 67,2 billion and the Netherlands CZK 41.6 billion. The higher sums of money also flowed to Germany last year, 28.9 billion, and Austria, 14 billion crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, excuse a little more detailed numbers, but as we can see, hundreds of billions of dollars a year fly here, which is missing in our economy and, on the contrary, strengthening economies abroad, which is why I am talking about this. And this isn't just about dividends that, according to my judgment, are even the tip of the iceberg. Transnational companies create fictitious costs, which clearly nobody controls, and paying abroad reduces their tax base in our country. As a result, we have lower salaries than in the West, not because we work less or inefficiently, no. This is because our work has a higher standard of living in Germany, Austria and elsewhere. And with the fictitious costs... Whoever has gone to work and consulted this information among themselves, for example, with audit firms' staff or with former senior staff of international audit firms operating in the Czech Republic, will learn this information, and has logic. Foreign mothers are billing marketing, accounting, etc., these are operations that are controlled in some countries because the financial authorities know that. But in our country, this isn't controlled that much, and basically, we're actually actually losing billions of dollars here. There is talk that this is about 300 billion extra in addition to the issue of dividends, i.e. a total of 600 billion, which could be taxed in the Czech Republic. But the question is, why doesn't the government have the will to do this, why doesn't the government want to approach multinational corporations as well as Czech citizens? To the Czech citizen, when he owes a few crowns, he gets a letter from VAT and he gets a penalty for a few crowns. Maybe the letter's more expensive. But when multinational corporations do accounting operations here, they prefer to keep quiet for the Brussels governments. Accounting operations aimed, of course, at carrying out or reducing taxes in the Czech Republic. So it is also one thing where I would like to ask, and I have already asked the previous government, but it is as if the games on the wall throws so that the Minister of Finance Stanjura is active in this respect, and then you would not have to cut the money to health insurance companies and you would not have to limit the availability of health care, which is one of the scariest things in this state budget of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, from the above comes... Sorry. So if you ask me where to get and not steal, the answer is clear. No need to take, just don't get robbed. But the government would have to really want to work for the Czech Republic and for our citizens, not for foreign interests. And for yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, it follows from the above that the SPD cannot and will not vote for the badly drawn budget of the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President. And now, with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová will speak, and President Andrej Babiš will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking so much since I listened to the President that he actually said everything for me, at least what I have most to say, so I'm glad we agreed on a lot of things. The budget presented by this government is at my disposal about a week after it has been introduced after an endless period of secrecy. I confess, I didn't have any great expectations anymore from the signals that sounded, but what was assembled was really quite a shock to me. Now, step by step, please. We have heard the last period, and it has finally been said from the representatives of this government today that public finances are in bad shape, that they are in turmoil, in decay. So I have to say it again today, even though I speak very often in public space, because a hundred times the repeated lie remains a lie, but it's something that resonates in that public space. They're not in the heat, and they're not in the decay, as we keep hearing. But it's substantiated by numbers. It's not just that one says they are and the other says they aren't, I have numbers for it. And I'll repeat them again. And look at the pages of the European Commission, where it is clearly written, and all the renowned workplaces within Europe and the world report this. [[11.30 hours]] The Czech Republic is the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union and the relative level of public debt is lower, and I repeat that again than at the time when the YES movement was taken over by the Ministry of Finance at the end of 2013. And I draw from the macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance on January 20, 2022. The debt at the end of 2013 was 43.3% of GDP, at the end of 2021 42 percent - a simple table in macroeconomic prediction - despite all the massive expansion we had to undergo, and we experienced the greatest exogenous shock in the meantime, perhaps since World War II, so please these are clear figures. The Ministry of Finance is in the hallway, and the Minister knows it, he goes around to work every day, just like I've been walking, a portrait gallery of all finance ministers since 1918. And I think there's 14 of them out of modern history, and now I'm assuming there's 15 of them. And I want to stress that only under three of these portraits could we write that they are ministers who have reached the surplus budget. These are three names: Václav Klaus, Andrej Babiš and Alena Schillerová. And I'm proud of it. But the biggest crisis in our country's history came, not only in the modern era, and it basically required a change in our approach and we had to do what was necessary. I'm talking about the last two years. But I admit, the level of debt has really increased over the last two years. And I personally would rather not have done so if the trend of the decline in debt, which we have set since 2022, had it continued. But the situation was different, it was complicated and unprecedentedly unpredictable. And this crisis has been faced by all the countries of the world, and the steps we have taken have been done in all the advanced economies of the world, and I stand by them. The debt of euro area countries increased by almost 15 percentage points during the health crisis, which is less than in the Czech Republic. The state of our public finances is good. Our economy is in good shape thanks to our rapid and massive assistance in the time of Corona, public administration budgets are well set, I am talking now about budgets of regions, cities and municipalities, health insurance budgets are so far, I say so far, ready for further development thanks to our government, but not only pandemic, we hope, we really believe that the pandemic is, or will soon be, behind us, hopefully, I very much wish it and we all want it. But of course there is a need to be prepared for further health care, which is why we put enough money in there so that when it has to invest massively in the consequences of the fight against cod, into health care, it does not have to limit further care, that is the basic and essential thing. The banking sector is also healthy, it is also important and citizens have unprecedented savings on their personal accounts, Czech households. Those are things that I'm sure we can agree on. And that's all thanks to our government's policy. To simply ensure these necessary components work, because then you can start further economic growth. The President spoke to me out of his mind when he said fiscal expansion was justified in times of crisis. And that's just what we've done, that's what all the countries have come to. And you didn'tabene sit in opposition booths and challenge us to do it. All right, we have heard some of your challenges, although of course we have approached them with all the responsibilities we had at the time of our reign. We have room, I think, for the Czech Republic to consolidate gradually without creating further shocks for our economy. The Czech Republic has the space to help its citizens and entrepreneurs. And the return to surplus state budgets must be gradual, so it should be a combination of measures on the revenue side, as the President spoke of it, but, of course, by combining it further, you can proceed to excise taxes, that was the trajectory I had set up. In order for there to be some kind of outlook, there is global taxation of multinational companies, there has to be work on it, it's started on the OECD platform and it's already at a certain level of approval. Tax exemptions. I remember, he was talking about the less than 13 billion I put through on this House, a year and a half I fought with you to take an unjustified exception to insurance companies so that they wouldn't just create tax-acceptable reserves without restrictions, a year and a half there was a matador of yours, a father founder of the TOP 09, talking for days, hours, reading the guidelines when we were talking about the obstructions. And it was very hard to enforce, and I'm proud of the 13 billion. I'm glad he remembered today. And there's a whole bunch of other things. I'm not saying that the discount on the taxpayer is the road, we didn't want to cancel the discount on the taxpayer either. That's where I agree with you. We even supported the increase as part of the negotiations in the framework of the package. But I don't understand the sentence in your government's programming statement: periodic valuation of the taxpayer's discount. Where? When the tax is zero? I don't think that can be completely serious either. So a combination of both, you get the same effect, and you don't strangle the economy. But this budget has no philosophy. This is not yours, and of course you know that, and you admit that, I'm not saying that you wouldn't admit that the budget is not yours, which you have also admitted, is our budget, which notabene is still lying somewhere on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies not being processed. That's our budget that you took and just crossed out what you could to get what you absolutely unsubstantiated and promised before the elections -- of course you retreated, you talked about higher numbers -- just so you didn't have to back out of your vanity. You should have prepared your own budget with your own philosophy, with your own political line, where you should have just adjusted there or onde and said: this is our philosophy, this is our policy and that is our budget. This is nothing, not a fish, not a coffin, not a shoe, not a cloth. So let's go to the revenue side of the state budget. And I'm gonna clean it up first. I'm gonna make a distinction first. When I submitted the budget, or our government sent it to the Chamber of Deputies - that he sent himself after the election, please again, was just a technique, that was the original one that our government approved by the end of September, before the elections. It was based on the macroeconomic forecast of August 2021, when the estimated inflation rate for 2022 was about 3,5 percent. On behalf of the Government of Petr Fiala, the Minister presents a proposal based on the January macroeconomic forecast, where the predicted inflation rate of consumer prices is 8.5% on average. Moreover, there is also a projected unemployment rate, in August 2021, when we were actually completing the budget, it was 2.7 percent, and in January it decreased to 2.3 percent. These are important figures, because they then affect other figures in the budget, whether on the revenue side or on the expenditure side. This fact creates a change in the state budget's cash revenue, and now I'm going to say it together with the state funds, that's not a big difference, 63.2 %, for the state budget it's 62,2. [[right billions]] And I want to stress that the 63.2 billion - not percentages, billions, I'm sorry - will not appear in the vacuum, but we will collect more in taxes from our citizens during an extremely high inflation period. At the same time, predicted unemployment and active employment policy expenditures will fall by 2.3 billion due to the reduced unemployment effect, so these are things that have fallen into this government's lap. It's just to tell you how these things run and lie. I'm not saying anyone denies it, but I'm just repeating the facts. [[11.40 hours]] This is therefore the effect of macroeconomic variables and economic developments. At the same time, it is still happening, please do not fit in, this has not been stressed, to increase estimates of revenue from EU funds and financial mechanisms for the state budget and state funds, which totals CZK 12 billion. Let me just stress this, this is not a savings, this is a change in revenue, which will come in extra, and I just want it to be said here, because maybe this didn't quite sound, even though of course, in the budget, and the prediction says so. So much revenue. Now let's go to the expense side of the state budget. Once again, this coalition, the government coalition, did not eventually cut 100 billion -- well, thank God -- as it likes to brag about it in the campaign on social networks. The numbers game is nice, but easy to see through. If you take - and this budget is still here, I repeat, the budget of the Government of Andrej Babiš for 2022 lies on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - spending chapter, chapter of expenditure and you compare it - simple, as the Minister says, quote, simple accounting operations or numerous operations - with expenditure in the budget of the Government of Petr Fiala, so the difference is 34.5 billion. Well, that's just the way it is. That's right. So no cuts of 120 billion, no 100, no more, the difference is actually 34.5 billion. And at what cost? At the cost of the longest budget commission, which proves to be completely unnecessary. Now, let's go to those cuts that, on the one hand, I consider to be really unreasonable, and even dangerous, some of them. And on the other hand, I see cuts that are just accounting or billing transfers from one pocket to another, the classics are the state insurance people, I'm going to talk about it, and of course marketing abuse of macroeconomic development. I have already talked about 2.5 billion as a result of lower unemployment, so I will not go back to that. Another 15 billion, and this was also said in the Minister's speech, the government cut down on investment and claims that these are investments that would not have happened because they are not ready. Well, when I heard the President today, he was talking to me. From the soul. That's completely stupid. Minister Stanjura knows well, I think he was even in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, he often talked about it here, he performed, I remember how we argued, he said: why don't you put more in there, why is it so much, why is it hede, they won't be able to continue construction? Back then, he was just defending the interests of the fund. He defended the interests of what the President said. The President said: what has the greatest multiplier effect? There he appointed the transport infrastructure and it was something that was crucial to our government, my esteemed, dear fellow Member Karel Havlíček will talk about it, so I will not take it away from him, because he worked most of the work on it. That was crucial to us. And to say, you... Minister Stanjura knows that this is not true. He's not out of line, he knows the issues of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, so he knows what the President repeated, too, that there are inventory projects. I remember when Karel Havlíček, as former minister, came to me on budget and he always had that magazine, and we were just talking about which projects did, which didn't, and so on, he always had more than we could give money. He's always had more. And a whole series of projects just started with massive investment, so now you're gonna cut them off? Will you stop? And the rumors that they're not ready, that it's actually the same volume, and the conjecture that it's 10 percent, it doesn't really matter. When we put more in there and did it in the amount of expenditure over 9 percent or 9.5 and you put less and you have 10 percent to the amount of expenditure, the important are the concrete constructions, the specific investments. And to strangle investment at this time, when the economy is breathing and when it really needs to be invested out of the crisis... You just do what you've always done: cross it out, absolutely cross it out. You know, we all remember, of course, I wasn't in politics, but we remember former finance minister Miroslav Kalousek and he also carried his political capital for it until the end of his political career when he went through the crisis between 2009, 2010 and 2012 and he was bluntly cutting it off. In his defense, even though I don't want to defend it, what he did back then, I remember it when the public sector's salaries were cut 10 percent, how the investments were cut, I'm the graphs, and I have them in that package on my desk, she had what she could do in the investment, she just made blunt cuts. But there's one thing I'm gonna say in his defense. At the time he did, he didn't have the valuable historical experience we have today. We know where it led. It led to further strangulation of economic growth, to another, shallow recession in 2012, when all the surrounding countries were breathing in and actually already gaining on economic growth, so we were talking here in the next recession. And you have the experience, you can benefit from it, and you will do the same. The exact same thing. It'll catch up to you, which I wouldn't care if it caught up with you. I don't care if it takes this country. I really don't care, because you just dusted off a dysfunctional recipe. You cut wages by 9 billion, which means at a time of almost 10% of inflation reducing real wages for workers in lower pay classes, among which we can find chefs in school dining rooms, janitors, workers in county health stations, librarians, librarians, culture workers, court writers, well, the ones we've always tried to set up the rules to help them, because without them, we can't work. They're not visible. They are not visible, they are not heard, but they provide the service, they help and are an integral part of all these institutions that they work in. So their real income is going to go down, and their costs are going to go up extremely. And that the government thinks it's a solution to send people to ask for state social support, I don't want to comment anymore, that's all wrong, and we gave it the whole emergency meeting yesterday. So that's the subject, and we're going to continue this debate out loud. We know we don't have a majority here, we know it's hard to push anything, but he'll hear us. And we're not gonna keep quiet because this is all wrong. [[11.50 hours]] But what is the worst, most irresponsible and greatest gamble is the reduction in health spending. And now I'm just sticking to the health chapter. I'm not talking about paying for state insurance, I'll get to that in a minute. The health chapter in the budget prepared by the government of Andrej Babiš was almost 24 billion expenses. And now in the chapter, in the budget prepared by the government of Petr Fiala, there are 18 billion. Irresponsible gambling with a fragile medical situation. It is evident that the government is simply playing a game where it takes citizens of the Czech Republic hostage, just because it has irresponsible promises and is so vain that it cannot retreat from them. Now I'm finally getting to the state insurance payments. When I heard the President, I have to say again, he spoke to me out of his mind. We've increased this payment, our government, three times. Once by 500, twice by 200 and now for 2022 again by 200 crowns. The reason was clear, and I'm sure other fellow Members from our parliamentary club will talk about it. The reason was to provide enough money for health care, so much affected by the pandemic crisis, so much tested, but of course they do it for us, for citizens, for people. For the care. But without money, you can't do the care. And if the costs went up there in this way, well, we didn't want our government to restrict any of the actions to come to any of you or your relatives or any of the citizens of this country, because health care must be free and available to everyone without distinction. That's why we put the money there so no one could really hear that there's no money for it. You don't get this care, or you wait for it and everything. That was the basic reason. And you take 14 billion, you've already made that cut, you've at least confessed to it, so you can't admit it, it would have figured out, as you often say, a first-year economics student. You have that cut there without just having the relevant legislation to do it. The law would be next week, the Minister says that if he enforces it... Well, it's no wonder the Minister of Health doesn't want to enforce it, he's the first Minister of Health to take the 20 billion resort, and he says it's a good thing! Well, I've never seen a health minister like that around here before. I saw the health ministers arguing with the finance ministers. That's normal. Maybe I was fighting, too. I was arguing with the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I used to argue with the former Prime Minister sometimes. But we always found a compromise, and I appreciated my government colleagues fighting for the resort. Even though they pissed me off, they fought. This is not where the Minister of Health fights, this is not where the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs fights. I just didn't see that. How many times do I think, have they read the budgets? Did they read what the Minister of Finance ordered for them? Because when the budget is approved, and without a doubt it will be approved, because this five-calice government has a majority here, that's a political reality with which nothing can be done, we can only talk and warn, it will be approved and it will end up in all those institutions, all the chapters of all the departments, so there will be horror. Because I'm convinced they don't know what's in there. He doesn't know what the consequences will be. Or do we have to wait, do citizens have to wait to pay for public care? And what effect does that have? It's taken from one pocket of public finances, and it's put into another? What does that make sense? And I'm asking, what's the 2023 view? Now we starve them to nothing, they've already issued a statement today, as the President rightly said, they're going to have to reduce health care, and what happens next? What's this cut for? What's it worth? What's the effect? And the president said right, it's 14 billion. But 14 billion for the health of our citizens. I'm not talking about renewables, about the solar tunnel, as Mr. President said, I'll leave it to Karel Havlíček. As far as the defence sector is concerned, I will leave this to Mr Metnar, because I am only curious to read the Government's programming statement that in 2025, 2% of GDP should be given in defence. I just want to point out that it's going to be 150 billion. [[Minister Černochová: 144]] So 144, I have different numbers. But it doesn't matter, Madam Secretary. If it were 144, it would be far from fulfilling this commitment, especially after these cuts. The Ministry of Transport chapter has a total of CZK 9 billion less on the expenditure side than was planned in our budget. The subsidies to the SFDI have decreased from our budget, these are just a comparison of the notebooks, by 7.5 billion. The Home Office's spending is down by 3.2 billion. That's going down by a billion for the firefighters. I remember when we were drawing up our budget, which is still here somewhere, for 2022, so I had the CEO of the Fire Rescue Corps, General Vlček, behind me and he said to me at the time: I just need help with the firehouses, we need to restore the cars, and we need that or that. I was regularly in contact with them because I wanted to hear the problems. And I say, General, how much would that be? And he says to me, well, at least 5-6 billion. And I'm like, "Oh, I can't do that, I can't do that. And we agreed on $1 billion at the time so that at least he could fix the emergency stuff there. Because those firemen, they were the ones who were just in the front line, whatever we needed. Soldiers too, of course. I just forgot about them, but I don't want to take everything away from my colleagues, the topics, because I'm sure they'll say it with more knowledge of detail than I do. And those firemen, we called, whatever it was, whatever it was, whatever it was, a tornado in South Moravia. I remember when I was in contact with them on almost a daily basis, when they were removing the debris. And he said, you know, we had more, we drove more, so at least that billion. They've had that billion since we agreed on it. Police spending 1.7 billion. MŠMT, Ministry of Education, 5.2 billion of which expenditure on regional education and directly managed organisations is 4.4 billion less. It's, I understand that it's salaries, I understand that it's mostly salaries. There's a billion dollars in higher education for investment. I'm surprised I can't hear the College Rectors' Conference screaming. I was in regular contact with them. They were always so angry. And I've been trying to keep all the agreements at regular growth rates, so now they're a billion less. 4.4 on salaries. That's what I was just talking about. Teachers by 2 percent. I remember, you know, I'm so good with these thoughts, I remembered how they kept walking the last year before the election, it was, I think, the Pirate Party, now I don't see anybody from them. There's so few of them that when they go out for coffee, there's no one here. So I just remember how they always suggested extraordinary, or they put an adjustment on the agenda, so that the salaries of the educators would be dictatorial, so that they would grow, they would just regularly valorize. I resisted because I said: it can't do that, it would do about 30 billion a year, from 20 to 30 would grow over the years to come. He just doesn't have the budget. I've been fighting it, I've been going around to make sure it doesn't pass, with the fact that I said, "I can't let one group grow like that again at the expense of the others." And all of a sudden, it's gone. That's a turnaround. Like I said, they're warriors for the teachers, the pirát. And of course they were supported by the opposition at the time, I understand. They were in opposition. Suddenly it's gone. Just 2 per cent. And even the unedagogical zeros, the cooks, the janitors, the ones who mostly, the housekeepers that are the biggest shortages there is. So just so we know how it goes and how it goes. I don't think they even know how it is yet. [[12.00 hours]] You said here several times that the budget doesn't count on compensation. We could hardly count on compensation when we sent him to parliament in September, the problems started at the end of autumn, rather it rolled over to the winter, but I was counting on the government's budget reserve of 6.5 billion, which is what serves these things. I didn't realize you'd want to put more on those compensations. I read $5 billion. And we have prepared a compensatory bonus, which you, Minister of Finance, through the Vice-President, have not yet noticed that you would continue to do so. But on the other hand, your draft budget - if I am wrong, please, then, when you respond sometime, answer me - does not respond to the current situation with regard to the rise in consumer prices, the impact of inflation on households. Information, we've already told ourselves here, the CSU show that the increase is 9.9 percent. Of course, the main reason I draw from the CSU press release is to return VAT on electricity and natural gas, and it is final that the energy growth is not final, it is not definitive. The increase in natural gas prices, for example, is a year-on-year increase of 21.5%, electricity prices have skyrocketed by 18,8%, and heat and hot water prices have increased by 12 percent. But your draft state budget doesn't count on that much from the way I looked at it. It doesn't count on him reacting in any way to spending or even on the revenue side by reducing some taxes. You're dealing with the housing allowance. We talked about this here for hours yesterday. It's inadequate, administratively demanding. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs himself said that some 21,000 people have so far been asked. This shows again that Czech citizens cannot rely on you. Now let me pick out another couple of beads from that budget. For example, the government plans to save gas spending from CZK 2.5 billion in the current expenditure of the organisational units of the state at the time of the highest inflation from 1998 to 1998. The support of Czech cultural heritage abroad is also reduced by a quarter and we are also reducing humanitarian aid by a quarter. I'm not even talking about the Czech culture sector, you're cutting it down to one billion. You reduce nature and landscape protection spending by CZK 175 million, climate and air protection spending by CZK 350 million, and it is perfectly symbolic for this government that the funds have been increased in two chapters - MPSV, that is, the legal valorisation of pensions, something that is imposed on you by the law. I appreciate here, Minister, that you have admitted fairly that our budget could not count on this, unlike Prime Minister Fiala, who did not admit it and said it was not in your budget. I guess you guys didn't have time to tell each other. At least you know. At least you know we couldn't have it in that budget when inflation was 3.5 percent. But luckily, we have a pension insurance law, and it imposes on you, every government, he's been here for 15 or 20 years, when inflation gets above 5%, extremely valorizing. So thank God no one can miss it, notabene, not retired. But I'm just taking the liberty of reading the seed beads here that the government's budget is increasing by $74 million. Symbolic. I would like to say that, despite all the arguments that I have presented here, especially in the introduction, when, for this reason - I want to be polite - to a revised or cut budget, to our budget without any philosophy, without any political idea, we have a budget make-up for almost a quarter of a year. For a quarter of a year, public institutions cannot plan their expenses and do not know what will happen. We are threatening the amount of investment from the National Recovery Plan to which the EU is to contribute 80 billion to us. Why? Only because of the vanity and marketing of this government. Instead of focusing on effective tax collection, supporting Czech households and entrepreneurs, there are empty gestures here. However, for the YES movement, I would like to say that there is no way that we can support such a budget, and my other fellow Members from the ANO opposition club will talk about it, but we will not build it, we will not hinder its further progress in the legislative process, because as the former Minister of Finance, I say with all responsibility that it is better that this country has a bad budget - because that is a bad budget - than to continue to remain in the budgetary provisional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u18	That was Mrs Schillerová. Another with priority rights is Mr. Andrej Babiš. [[Objection.]] Yes, there are two factual ones. Sorry. First de facto - Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u19	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Schillerová, President Schillerová, I apologize, she said strangely that the Czech Rectors' Conference does not criticise the draft state budget. A hundred and sixty-fourth meeting of the Czech Rectors' Conference, which was held on 17 February this year, adopted several resolutions, and I will read to Mrs Schillerová through Vice-President the first item in the resolution: "The Czech Rectors' Conference appreciated the fact that the Czech Government complied with its commitment to universities in terms of funding for public universities in terms of educational activities and in terms of support for science, research and innovation.: I must say, as with almost every criticism from the former Minister's mouth, again misses. So first find out how colleges rate it, and then they can't wonder what college is saying. They commended the budget. And then simple math. The former Minister is able to say in two sentences in a row: the government has saved only 34 billion. And then it starts: health care 20, transport 9, internal 5, finance 2, she didn't mention it, she quietly kept quiet about the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, and so on, so there's only 34, and then you count the 77 in your criticism. And he can pay either one or the other. Of course the second is true. [[Mr. Babka's note.]] No, no. This is Mr. Ambassador of the ANO movement to me... Try, Mr. Ambassador, through, to come to the microphone... [[Time, Minister.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again. I'll explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u20	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Bernard. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u21	I confess that the Minister of Finance has taken the breeze from my sails a little now, but I really, through you, Mr President, must turn to Mrs Schillerová. You say you're picking the seed beads out of the budget, and I've chosen some of the really big fouls that you said in your speech. I've got about seven of these majors written down, but I'm going to mention the one that's already been mentioned here. You said the Minister claimed or claimed that on the expense page we reduced the budget by CZK 100 billion. That's not true. All this time, he's consistently claiming it's 77 billion. And it's not even the 34 you're saying, because he mentioned that there had to be other expenses in the budget that you didn't include. I only mention the expenditure on raising pensions, the covido measures, the increase in the housing allowance that was not in your draft budget. [[12.10 hours]] And maybe the other foul. You know, this call for a completely different budget, which I think we can put together on the basis of some structural change, I think Mr Okamura called it Zero Budgeting, well, Zero is a Japanese fighter. Zero budgeting maybe we could, but not until that year. And I don't think you're accepting a hundred basic days of government to actually make a proper assessment of the situation when it takes over this country. That's what I think are some of the fouls that appeared here in your speech. Then I'll name another one in my next post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u22	Thank you. That was Mr. Bernard. Another point of fact is made by Mr Munzar, followed by the application of Minister Stanjura and President of the Excellent. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to Mrs Schillerová, through you. I'm interested in the passage, and I'd like to say how well the budgets were managed here before the covid crisis, and covid ruined it all for you. Well, I think it's more of a strenuous effort to cover up your mismanagement of state finances and blame it all on the covid. I'm sure we can agree that the covide pandemic was a huge blow to our economy, but when the pandemic was not yet seen, nor heard, your management, your government and yours directly evaluated by the Supreme Audit Office in the words - and now I quote - that the state budget is worse prepared for extraordinary events than at the time of the previous economic crisis. And you know why? Well, because expenditures even during economic growth, state spending, grew faster than income. And they weren't investments. They never made it to the limit of 10 percent. Just so you know, if you look at the revenue of the state budget for those non-covid years in economic prosperity, at the time you were in charge, from 2016 to 2019, the state chose an additional figure of 242 billion, but spent more than CZK 332 billion on spending at the same time. So you guys were in debt to all of us before the covid, you undermined the good foundation of public finances. That's why the deficits were so big, and over the last two years, neither the increased expenditures nor the deficits went half the way to fighting the covid. So all that I'm saying is the cause of the bad state of public finances, and you've also laid the foundation for today's record inflation, because that's one of the reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u24	Yes, thank you, that was Mr Munzar's point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u25	I want to thank the Vice-President of the Budget Committee for stating the facts before the Covido. I don't care about such great statements that covid was the biggest crisis in modern history. You probably meant the Czechoslovak Republic or Czechoslovakia, because these are modern history, and that is certainly not true. Or are we saying that there was no greater blow to the economy, wasn't there a bigger problem with the communist regime, a communist coup? The liquidation of business? Zapotok's monetary reform? Are you serious? That it was a big problem, no one is questioning that it was a global problem, no one is questioning that, but I think the 2008-2009 crisis was bigger. We can argue about this. You're just making arguments to justify your irresponsible management. Let's think about what the budget would look like if you were adjusting it and you had those inflationary revenue and inflation expenditures. That would be 400 billion, that would be the deficit. I'm listening to your legislative ideas that we reject. And for the MP, I'm really sorry, I dropped my name, so through the Vice-President, try to add up the savings criticized by the president of your club and get to number 34 billion. It just doesn't work out. We're applying to number 77, that's right, we're prepared to explain it in detail, to justify it, but it's just not 34. Only the six numbers, and the president of the club didn't devote herself to all the chapters, were about 50 of them criticized. I'm not taking her right to criticism, it's okay, that's what the budget's about, so I'm not gonna go with it at all, but it's either 34 or 77. And we can't say that the savings are 34, and then criticize the 50 and some other budget chapters. It's 77, we've fulfilled our commitment, yes, feel free to criticize it, I understand that, you who have been able to make 830 billion in two years... [[unintelligible]] [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I have to sign up, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u26	Thank you. Another, so far the last, factual application, Mr. Chairman Výborný. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Government, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to see you through to President Schillerová. So, aside from that, there's a lot going on, I guess I'll mention some of the things in my post that are clearly related to things that are shifted or even false, like the starvation of some insurance companies and the like, you just know it's not true. I want to mention one crucial thing that I'm surprised that, as Secretary of Finance, which you didn't forget to compliment yourself at the beginning, you have no idea when you're throwing our government that she didn't come up with her own budget. So I guess you have some kind of timetable in which the state budget is being prepared. The government came on December 18th and was doomed to use your poorly prepared budget to adjust it in at least the possible parameters to the form it comes up with. But to talk about why you didn't bring your own budget, I really don't understand. As Treasury Secretary, I think you know this very well. And talking about the vanity of a government or a minister or something like that in your case, that seems really hypocritical to me. I think with your instagram history, the words about vanity are completely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u28	Thank you. That was Mr. Výborný. Mr Rais is also registered with the actual application. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u29	Hello. I'm just about the controversy of the college conference and the reality of what it is. In your draft budget, it basically adds 1.2 billion to colleges, which is a pretty ridiculous number given the size that traffic needs. There is still targeted from the 1.2 billion oriented 500 million to medical schools, actually available for operating and wage contributions is plus minus 700,000. Parallelly, if you look at the investment, so just in case, this money, this wage money, you basically gave us, and at the same time you needed to get that billion, you just crossed out in the investment area, which means ten years plus minus the old scientific structures of CEITEC, the type of IT for Innovation, and these huge investments that need modernization, otherwise we don't get foreign scientists here, so they're cutting off. So basically, the reality is that there's actually 700 million real-time traffic there, and it's barely investment. A normal BUT school, like Masaryk University, needs at least 3-5 billion a year. It's just the breadcrumbs they gave us at our disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u30	Thank you for the show. That was Mr. Rais. Another point of fact, once again Minister Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u31	I will only respond to Mr Rais through you. I quoted the position of the Rectors' Conference. So if I understand your performance correctly, I don't know if you're still a rector or not, you're such a multi-functional, so tell your rector. We did not give them the motion for a resolution. I e-mailed him today. As Mrs Schillerová had such a touching concern about what the rectors were saying, I quoted their resolution of 17 February, which is relatively fresh when they became acquainted with the chapter not only for higher education but also for science and research overall. So if you're going somewhere, you're going to be directing it between your colleagues, the current rectors. I'm happy for the resolution, but I haven't spoken to any of them, I haven't given anybody a motion for a resolution, so don't make them a little... I don't know how to put it politely, but I'd better stop. [[12.20 hours]] And on top of what I wanted to say in advance, and I didn't make it to the time limit, I understand that to those who made that axe 826 billion in two years, they have to say that the axe can continue to be done because that's actually what they're developing and making an alibi. I remember a strong quote from Mrs Schillerová: Cha, cha, cha, the government will find savings in billions at most? [[unintelligible]] You'll see. That's impossible. And now he's coming, and it's 77 billion. And in one performance, I think it was Monday, I am able to hear the lady in one interview these four sentences: firstly. The cuts are actually completely meaningless, they're accounting tricks. Two. Those are brutal cuts. It's completely crippling the economy. It's my budget. Yes, part of it is the budget of the previous government, which we honestly admitted, because we didn't have time to redo it. Our very first budget, with the political priorities of our government, will be the budget proposal 2023. There was no other way. And please stop haunting everyone with a budget commission. Look how it works. It's just no problem. That it's better to have a state budget, we don't want that. But we have a budget provisional - because of the poor management of the past government. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u32	Thank you. The next is a written comment by a Member of Hendrych. Then a Member named Rais came forward from the post. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I only have a brief remark on one of the comments made by the Minister of Finance. He correctly said that there was a major crisis before the cod crisis, and that was a crisis in 2008 and 2009. We can argue whether it was bigger or smaller. But I would like to remind you one thing, one important thing, that according to the highly renowned economist, Professor Švejnar, whose expertise, I think, no one will question here, is the government of Petr Nečas, who, by the way, was a member of the current Minister of Finance and, at the same time, the current Prime Minister, extended the crisis by two years with its restrictive measures, or its restrictive fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u34	Thank you. That was Mr. Hendrych. Another, Mr Rais, canceled his factual comment from the point of view. Another factual point, Mr Bernard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u35	I have to follow up on the previous speaker. Well, we're taught that. I mean, that's what your former ex-minister said. We say yes, we perceive the development that occurred after 2008, that it was not entirely happy, we all learned and we say that today we are building a budget that is a reasonable compromise. You cannot compare what happened after 2008 in the area of budgetary and fiscal policy in this country with what the government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of Finance Stanjura are proposing now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u36	Thank you. One more de facto application, MP... Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u37	I'm a Member, too, and I'm proud of it. So, now that we're pulling out the 2008, 2009, I've heard a lot of criticism of the 2009 budget result, I think it was 192 billion. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. At that time, I was neither an MP nor a member of the government. So we have 192 billion and we have 367, 420, another 377. So I think we need to compare it. If we want to look critically, let's look critically at all these years. And just as I said, our government's proposed budget goes primarily in savings on the part of the state. Because when someone says it's... I even heard antisocial: we haven't reduced anything to anyone. And for Mrs Schillerová through. I've known General Vlček for 22 years. Of course, I discussed the amount of the budget with him. Then meet him first and don't tell him how unhappy he's gonna be. I'd like that. If you want to interpret here... And some may be unhappy, I don't question it at all, and we're not happy that we had to make such big savings because of your poor management, so please don't put it in your mouth. Talk to him first, if he's unhappy, he'll tell you, to me, to everyone else publicly. It's perfectly okay, that's what public debate is for us to discuss over the budget. I also said on the budget committee that I'm not saying that the budget, unlike my predecessor, is sitting on every item. There wasn't even time, and no finance minister can give his head to the fact that every item fits. And I am prepared to devote myself honestly to every amendment, no matter who comes from. I do not rule out the fact that we will support some amendments, whether they are submitted by someone from the opposition or from the coalition. I'm ready for that, and that's true. Of course, it will depend on the amendments themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u38	Thank you. I do not see any more factual comment, I will read one apology before we go back to the general debate. Mrs Fischerová changes her apology, apologizes for today between 9 and 10 a.m. for business reasons, and from 10 a.m. she will be present. That's an apology. I, Mr. Skopeček, will be voting with the replacement card number 15. Now we can go back to the general debate. Another registered priority right is Mr Babiš. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u39	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I'm here to perform on the basic parameters of the budget. Then I would also like to comment on the speech by the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the President. But I'm going to start by saying that you're comparing what happened in the crisis of 2009. So, Minister, when the deficit was 190 billion, you gave entrepreneurs zero. [[The Minister of Finance objects from the rapporteur's desk.]] No, you gave them zero. Come on... And we're... So you're accusing us of covid, too, of ordering. We gave the entrepreneurs 360 billion, 360 in two years. You're comparing incomparable. You're talking... The 826 axe, actually, you, of course, are expressing yourself according to how it suits you. Perhaps you should know that the debt within Eurostat, within the European Union, is expressed as a percentage of GDP. Try to teach Mr. Munzar, he is not listening now that the comparison between the results of our government and what you left us is simple. 31. 12. 2021 was a debt to GDP of 42 percent. And 31. 12. 2013, that was your government, how much was it? No 44,4 %. I think even a little kid knows 42 is a lower number than 44. Okay. We can talk about state debt, public debt, we can talk about it, there was someone here last night, how much we gave to the government and public budgets and how much the government debt was. Well, it doesn't matter. He was lower. State debt and public debt. By the end of 2021, compared to when you finished, 2013. That's for sure. So, of course, there's a debate going on here about this, I thought we were talking about your budget, but you're saying here, and that's the mantra that we did wrong. That is why we still have the sixth best finances in the European Union, which is why we have the ratings, which is why we are the ninth best prosperous country in the European Union. Ninth! Yes, under our rule. And the problem is, here's the master talking about absolute debt. Yeah, I can talk about absolute debt. Kalousek, Sobotka made 1 050. One of them was 6.5 percent. Yes? But the comparison is that we don't know where the money went under your government. We don't know that. But under our rule, we know exactly that. And of course we can talk, maybe I can get to it, about the inflation, and who did what. The fact is that household savings have increased by 549 billion over the last two years to a total of 3 354 billion. So it is clear and clear that our management until the end of 2019, when the debt fell to 29 percent - 29 percent - was, of course, very good. And we did the covid, too, because everyone knows where the money went. So it's demagogy. You're trying to present what we did wrong. It's not true. [[12.30 hours]] Well, of course we can talk about the deficit. If Mrs Schillerová's draft budget were left, the 376 deficit, you got 62, on the macro basis, so if nothing changes, then the 314 deficit. And you have 280. [[Member Stanjura remark off the microphone.]] And, of course, it's demagogy. I speak exactly as you speak, comparing two numbers. You're presenting things here - because you're so concerned about the budget! You should have put the 62 billion in the drawer. You should have put 62 billion on the side, out of which to pay pensions - 21; 11 billion you should have given to people, forgiveness of VAT for six months; You should have paid them back the fare discount - 1.6 billion; you should not have touched salaries - 4.7 billion; you should have given compensation to entrepreneurs - 5 billion. And you'd still have it. You could've sided, and you did it in a way that no one really knows. And I'm most excited about your performance, as you are, and the Prime Minister here is saying how you're going to stop the inflation. I don't know, the Prime Minister isn't here if you could tell us how to stop the inflation, Mr. Secretary. The Prime Minister says: something needs to be done against inflation, the anti-inflationary budget. So please tell me, if you're saying that the last government created half of inflation, then try documenting it for us somehow. I don't understand because it's nonsense. You're even so arrogant as to say that in January, it's the inflation of the previous government. It's like incredible. Do you know why energy prices rose by 38.6 percent in January and natural gas by 31.3% and hot water by 9.9? So just read the Czech Statistical Office's press release: because the VAT you didn't want came back, so it's your inflation! Give my regards to the Prime Minister. It's his inflation! Because you should have forgiven VAT for six months. Minister Jurečka here interprets 25, 40 billion. And how did you figure that out? We forgave the VAT in November and December, that's easy to calculate. So 1.8 billion a month, right? I say six months, if you don't understand. I informed you yesterday that it's summer in June. So it's six times 1.8, six times, that's 10.8. Yes, it is. But anyway, you still have a reserve there, and the 62 billion based on macros, well, that's what people paid for, isn't it? And you don't want to give it back. So this is where the incredible things went away. Yes, pension, it's legal, it's not your fault, it's the law of 21 billion. And even if the old people can handle the inflation when they add it. You didn't make any savings, it's all cuts, it's brutal cuts. And I don't understand where the anti-inflationary budget is. I understand, actually. I understand that, and I think that today the President has shown us one of his best speeches again. And I actually understood because you're actually saying, we don't give people money, so you're actually like Ceausescu, like the president here said. You guys are just like Ceausescu. So you tell people, you don't drown, you don't shine, and eventually you might still have food to eat. So after Bartoš informed us that the Ústí Region is worse than Romania, we have your Romania. So you're saying - that's completely absurd - you're telling people that you take money from people and people don't buy anything, so there's no inflation. But I agree with that, and I totally agree with that, but it just needs people to know. So, citizens, the new government here is gonna take everything away from you and you're not gonna buy anything, and then there's not really going to be inflation. [[That's bullshit.]] That's right. That's right. The Prime Minister says you want to fight inflation, so please fight. How will you fight? She wrote me a Prague gas company or whatever it's called that I've had since I was 1. 4. increases everything. So fight, fight for everyone here. How are you gonna do that? It's nonsense. You know it's nonsense. And if you're saying that by giving people money, yes, we've caused inflation, it's absolute nonsense, it's demagogy. And to even call the budget anti-inflationary - I really don't understand. I really don't understand it, because you're flattering the inflation, you're flattering. So make a breakdown of what's imported, and how much is the koruna's exchange rate today. And the Prime Minister said he was going to stop being expensive, and he even said that income wasn't a problem. But you don't understand how a budget is drawn up. You do not understand that you should have started from revenue, that you still have 214 billion of the old European funds programme, that you have 972 billion new programmes there. How much do you have to prefinance European funds? 160 billion that you paid off on backup and didn't cash in from Europe? You're supposed to be working with that, but that doesn't ring a bell. And, of course, the Modernization Fund that we won. So we learned that you were saving, I don't know where, the Office of the Government is definitely not the right example. The Presidency is increasing 400 million, I don't know what for. 1.84 billion will be the Presidency. So much money! It's more than the discounts. So this mantra of yours that finances are wrong, that's a lie, of course, that we caused inflation. Then prove it to us, show me exactly where we caused inflation. I don't know. By telling the ODS after the revolution that we will deliver everything, that you have privatized agricultural land, that we produce only 30 percent of vegetables and fruits here, and that we import 60 percent of pork and that we have the largest concentration of chains? It's your decision that we can't even make food for people to the extent that we can. I get that. And in October, vegetable inflation was 7.5 percent. So look at these items and don't tell people it's an anti-inflationary budget because it's not. Let the Prime Minister and I ask him to explain to us what half of the prizes we've created. That we gave money to people. But our citizens are reasonable, they've put the money away, and if they're losing it, that's the question when we look at the euro exchange rate. It's interesting that you're not criticizing the Czech National Bank, that it's going to cost people their mortgages, that it's going to suit you, that crazy rate. They've increased the loans, the mortgages. Well, who's gonna get it? Well, of course the banks. So you just want the Ceausesc system here: people, you're not gonna drown, you're not gonna shine, everything's gonna be expensive, and in the finals, actually, if you don't eat, that's for the best. So that's your attitude. I don't understand how anyone here is allowed to argue about those state insurance people. You guys took 14 billion of health care. So look at the results of the Czech health care that we introduced. Cancer. There's one word for it. One word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u40	Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna have to interrupt you, because we're scheduled to continue the adjourned 9th meeting as of 12.45. Of course, when we get back to the 11th meeting, I'll give you your word back and you can continue. I'm sorry, but I'm interrupting the item and the 11th meeting. We will continue with it about five minutes after the 9th meeting, which will start today at 12.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the suspended 11th session of the Chamber of Deputies. Once again, I'm going to sign you all out to make sure that we can get your identification cards logged in, and at the same time, I'm asking you to tell me who you're going to be asking for a replacement card. Of course, those that were already in effect before the meeting was suspended remain valid for the continuation of our negotiations, as well as the apology of the 11th and 9th meetings. In addition, he is still apologizing for today's meeting between 18.30 and 23.45 hours due to the illness of Mr Ivo Vondrák. [[14.40 hours]] We will now continue to discuss interrupted point 2, which was therefore, or is, a print 144, a government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022, first reading. We have interrupted the discussion of this point in the general debate. I would remind you that the Committee on Budgets has tabled a resolution delivered as House Press 144/1. I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, take the position of the rapporteur on behalf of the appellant. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate, where, with priority rights, Mr Andrej Babiš was interrupted in his speech, and I will therefore allow him to continue the negotiations. But then there's a gentleman's agreement, Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Babiš, it is not at all intended that I want to rob him of the right to speak in the debate in any way, but since we are starting this afternoon's block and all the MPs, as I have registered, have shown interest in discussing and negotiating the State Budget Act at first reading, I would like to leave two procedural votes to be put to the vote. One in accordance with Article 53 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the 3: The Chamber of Deputies notes that for this point, the draft state budget for 2022 is both a day of procedure and a Saturday. This is one separate vote. Second, pursuant to § 53 para. 1 that we will discuss this point after 19 p.m., after 21 p.m., or even after 24 p.m., in line with what we are voting in the first resolution, that is, Saturday. Thank you. It's just a procedural precaution, I believe we can deal with the debate sooner. Thank you, and thank you, Mr Babiš, for your patience. To put it right, yes, I also make this proposal on behalf of five KDU-ČSL clubs, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u43	Yes, thank you. So these are procedural proposals, we will vote on each separately. These are therefore proposals which are to be put to the vote without debate. I will therefore call on Members from the lobby to vote in as many numbers as possible. Once the number of Members and Members has settled, I would remind you that the first proposed procedural proposal is that we vote in accordance with Section 53 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3. that Saturday will also be the day of the meeting - in relation to the state budget, in order to add exactly this, that is, to the point that we have just opened and which we are discussing. So in relation only to this point. Since I note that most Members have already returned, I am opening the vote on this procedural point and I am asking who is in favour to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4, 163 Members and Members were enrolled, for 157, versus 1. The proposal has been adopted and we have agreed that Saturday is also the day of the meeting for the discussion of this press. Another procedural proposal, which was made by the President of the Excellent on behalf of five clubs, is pursuant to § 53 para. 1 proposal to make decisions after 19th, 21st, 24th hour. So we will decide on this procedural proposal by voting that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 168 Members and Members were enrolled, for 164, against none. The motion was accepted. Thank you. I therefore follow up on the suspension of the general debate and, please, the Member, President Andrej Babiš, to complete his adjourned speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u44	So, Madam President, honourable Members, in my speech I would like to focus only on the basic parameters of the state budget presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u45	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm gonna have to ask you to keep the MP quiet. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u46	And my colleagues will then look at a more detailed analysis of the proposed budget plans by chapter. First of all, I would like to point out that the budget presented does not count at all on the facts that were achieved last year. He is counting on the figures that were in the approved budget everywhere in principle. And it's logical, because I assume it's the intention of proving how badly our government has managed. That's what we're still hearing, and of course we're saying it's not true. Otherwise, he could not count on the budget proposal for 2022 that last year's deficit was 500 billion. After all, it is already known that this deficit was considerably better - 420 billion, and if we include relations with the European Union, then the deficit is 408 billion. So that's a big difference from what the government says, and, of course, the government doesn't say that... We say it was a budget, and we've reduced it by 100 billion. So we're down by a hundred billion originally considered deficits. Maybe it's a detail, even if it's not that small. However, I consider the overall focus of the budget to be much more fundamental. What exactly is the priority of the budget, the state budget for 2022? It's the blunt cuts that the government is making and which my colleagues are going to take even further apart, but, Minister, we can't count the 77 billion. It would be good to publish it somehow and say what you think your savings are, in our opinion, blunt cuts are actually about. Or perhaps the government is watching something more significant, and it could tell us what it is, because of course, the claim that it is an anti-inflationary budget is nonsense. The question is whether the government is aware of the social situation of many families, whether the government even perceives the reality of the current economy, whether it sees the threats that the current development of the European and world economy brings and whether it wants to address them at all. These are the questions I seek answers to, and I don't see them anywhere in the budget. I believe that the government is having a poor analysis of the current state of the Czech economy in its draft state budget. The government expects that this year's gross domestic product will increase nominally by 8.4 percent, while price growth incorporated into GDP growth will be 5.2 %. So it's pretty easy to get to real growth... [[He turns to Madam President:]] Can I ask you something?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u47	I will ask colleagues who are disturbing - I will not name a Member, but he has already quieted down. You can go on now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u48	Thank you. So we're quite easily approaching real GDP growth by 3.1 percent. And is this really real? How is this growth supported by the development of overall economic demand? We saw that in January e.g. the production of cars decreased by 11 per cent. Its largest part is private consumption, more than half of GDP. According to macroeconomic forecast makers, this consumption will increase by 2.3 percent in real terms and actually absorb the entire GDP growth. In doing so, consumer prices are expected to increase by 8.5% over the whole year on average over the past year and to increase by 5.4 percent in wages and salaries and thus increase almost as much as in the last year, when they increase by 5.7 percent but, of course, at other inflation. The budget proposes not to increase salaries in a large part of the budgetary sphere and, where our government has proposed wage increases, for example in education, this increase will be significantly lower. [[14.50 hours]] So what will be the purchasing power of wages and salaries that will be nominally the same as last year? Of course, there's only one answer to that. These salaries and wages will be 8 percent lower in real terms. And if there's a wage growth somewhere, I don't expect their real growth to happen. And that will always be lower than the inflation under consideration. Does anyone assume that people will compensate for their higher spending by choosing savings? I don't think that's gonna happen. People will protect their savings for a worse time. At least that's always been the case. So consumers will save. Therefore, I do not see much room for real consumption growth. One small example. The number of employees in the industry decreased by 1.2% last year. There are more than a fifth of all employees of the national economy working there. In the fourth quarter of the industry, production decreased by 2 %. The average nominal wage in industry increased by 5.4 % year-round compared to last year and by 3.6 % in the fourth quarter. Will the average wage in industry really grow faster this year than it has so far? I doubt it. So what will be the purchasing power of such a wage? Will it be lower by 5%? Or just four? So the purchasing of these employees will increase? Do we not see how far hundreds of thousands of people have fallen who have been victims of unfair practices by energy suppliers who have not yet been charged with their frauds? And even these people are consumers. Where, then, is the belief that the purchasing capacity of the population as a whole is really going to grow? In terms of investment, even here, the government is very optimistic. There is no other way, because it wants to achieve such GDP growth. However, the draft budget cuts some of our proposed investments. I believe that it is not even making greater efforts to draw on European funds, which we need to finance in advance. We haven't heard of it at all. When we started 2014, we found that during the period 2007-2013 we almost did not draw and threatened not to finish. That was Sobotkův's first government. And we've made it and we've exhausted it. But we haven't heard from the current government about this money source at all, and the government isn't talking about income at all. And again, there's a huge pre-financing. I don't know how much it is now, but it used to be around 160 billion that the state had prepaid to those who would benefit from European subsidies. The idea that the crisis will subside and increase investment from next month seems to be from another world. At this level of interest rates will there be any interest in investment loans at all? We do not hear from the government that what the Czech National Bank is doing is indeed a scandal! Because the Czech National Bank feels that it will break oil, gas, energy, emission allowances, or maybe it has the same idea as the government, as we have heard, that is, the Ceausesc system: not to drown, not to light, not to eat. And that's absurd. It's absurd to actually call this budget anti-inflationary. And what's anti-inflationary? I'd be very interested if you could show us what you're saying is that half of inflation is caused by the last government. That's total nonsense. [[Minister Stanjura responds.]] No. But give it to us in detail, Minister. We don't even have the 77 billion. Are we missing the current development of mortgage interest rates, which will stop the steep growth in mortgage loans recorded in recent years in a short period of time? At the same time, much of the mortgage loans will be re-evaluated. Interest will be increased. Yes, those that are actually fixing the new period are already more than 5%. And, of course, for those who already have mortgages, it's a disaster. And it will be the mortgages and their holders who will be victims of the central bank's fight against inflation in a short period of time. No bank in Europe behaves like our Czech National Bank. There are two members of the Bank Board, Mr. Dědek, Mr. Michl, who have a completely different opinion about it, and then the rest are theorists who apply the things they probably learned in college. In this situation, I do not think it will pull the population's demand up. And I fear that the government's macroeconomic prediction is based on misconceptions and their conclusions do not address the real threats of the future. Our economy will be exposed to a decline in economic growth in the next few months at relatively high inflation. This stagflation is the greatest danger to our economy, and the government should take steps to prevent the development of stagflation. But the government doesn't see the problem at all. After all, it is known that the worst that can happen to every economy is to stop economic growth. The same applies to companies. Resume production rhythm, tune supplier-customer relationships... And we can see that their break in covid is also one of the major causes of inflation. Continue investment is always very difficult after such a break in growth and, above all, it costs additional costs. I therefore warn against letting the economy sink into such stagflation. That's the biggest danger today. But apparently the government doesn't see him at all, and it relies on the coincidence that she somehow manages to avoid stagflation. This isn't about anything new. We've been through this quite recently. Between 2012 and 2013, these were the blunt cuts of Nečasův' government inspired by his finance minister Kalousek, which led to a stagnation of economic growth and consequently a fall in GDP. If this government continues this line and further deepens its negative tendencies with its cuts, it will soon put the economy into stagnation while not stopping inflation. After all, our inflation is largely imported. That's what we keep saying. We are not even saying that he can - and we have heard the Prime Minister here today that we are also responsible for the January inflation, which is, of course, absurd and I will get to that. So no inflation, the global one that's here - how are you going to stop it, Prime Minister? Because you were talking about stopping her. No one understands. Well, only the Romanian system. So our inflation is largely imported and no increase in interest rates can stop it. That's nonsense. What the Czech National Bank did, in addition to the fact that, as I say, it is Rusnok's precious, loan and mortgage, has obviously strengthened the Czech crown. Even today, even the exporters who are fans of this government have already heard from them. So we're going to get it a second time. And for the third time, Czech companies that produce in the Czech Republic have to face competition from abroad. And foreign suppliers will, of course, make even more competition with the Czech koruna's fixed exchange rate. So three times. Three times the problem. So I just want to say that all the economies around us are starting to have problems with raw materials prices, with energy prices, where in the end it is not just a problem with raw materials prices, but the problem is to get these resources at all because they are physically not available because of what happened behind the covid. We remember chips for cars, magnesium and other things. I do not want to remind you that, of course, the European Union's nonsensical policy is responsible for a considerable part of these problems. As far as the energy market is concerned, the prices of allowances are absolutely scandalous that the MiFID directive needs to be amended, and the European Commission has paid for a study that actually claims, at the current emission allowance price, that we are already in, I don't know, 2060 perhaps. Totally out of order. Speculators are making money, and industry in Europe is going to hell. On the basis of these facts, I argue that we must reject the current draft budget. After all, the government could have adopted a budget presented by us, which could at least allow normal financing of the needs of the state. At some point in March, his correction could have been presented, which would have already responded to the risks that the economy is facing or will be confronted in a short time. [[15.00 hours]] Accessing to other budgetary restrictions in this situation is absolute nonsense. Based on the latest macroprediction, the government expects inflation to gain, and it's part of inflation, it's a levy, 62,2 billion income. But that's not so sure, because there's a circus of several tens of billions of VAT. And it's some kind of prediction. So it's more optimistic, and maybe it'll be less. And there's a lot of risks, and as far as I know, there's no recipe from the government, and there's no mention of it. So I think that the government should complement the draft budget on the risks already seen in economic growth and, of course, our colleagues will talk about this in particular, and possibly the newly created revenues resulting from inflation have been used primarily to maintain the purchasing capacity of our citizens. [[Wouldn't]] And I repeat once again that the government should say clearly: here we got 62,2 billion, 21 we put on pensions because we have to do according to the law, yes, then again, I ask you to forgive VAT on energy, as we did, November, December. And only for six months, that's enough. That's about 11 billion. Give people the fare discount, that's 1.6. Give them back what we suggested, the 4.7 salaries. Give compensation to entrepreneurs, and if I add it all up, I'm here at 12.45 billion and you, Minister, will remain. For us, the budget is absolutely inconspicuous, and it would be good to explain it. You're talking about saving 77 billion. I don't know where they are. I say it's cutbacks, but show us! You're saying you're saving, so I guess that's a joke. We see that at the Office of the Government, we see that at the Presidency. You keep saying we don't have good public finances. That's a lie. And I'm finally waiting for the results of self-government to 31. 12. 2021 and there you'll see those huge balances on the government accounts. Prague still has 90 billion. The hřib doesn't know what to do with it. Brno's going, at least that's what he's investing. But Prague? Ninety billion? And you'll see, by 30. 9. they had 313 billion municipalities and cities and 75 billion regions in their accounts. And they had surplus management. Why? Well, because our government was changing the RUD. We gave them money. But, of course, no one wants to admit that. And of course, Minister, you have cotton wool. You've got a cotton wool in your government debt service. Government debt service, that's interest. And, of course, you're cleverly saying, you pulled a number from 2016, I was the Minister of Finance, 2016, and you said there was 40. Yes, 40.7. In 2016, I lent 15 percent of the state debt at minus interest! Minus. And we got about 14 billion. Yes? But you're not saying that we inherited the state debt after your government in 2013 in the amount of 50.9. And you're not saying that last year was 42 billion. Forty-two. And you have 49. Or 50. So in my opinion, you have at least 9 billion cotton. Well, of course, we have the budget board here. It's for the media mantra! We need to see where these people came from. And where they were, who they ran for Europe. That they're politically oriented somehow. And I'm still hearing here, one diary that's funded by some political party. I don't know by whom. The diary even wrote that I was on the budget committee, so I'm telling all the journalists that it was already my second committee. That I'm working on those committees. And that I should have slammed the door. That's a lie, of course! Even some MP Miroslav Zborovský said it, I don't know who it is. I was sitting right back there. And I listened to Mrs. Zamrazilová, and she actually said how amazing you are. We're not going back where she worked in 1994. And I left. You can't even hit that door. Look, they're somehow still... they're not fixed. So lie like. And there's another genius. Genius Hampl. I suggest you read the interview with Mrs. Perknerová when he said the government debt would be 100 billion! Well, he missed, Mr. Expert. Also from the CNB or theorist. 42 was, not 100. 42. So, Minister, please, I suggest you convince your colleagues to borrow in euros. Because the eurozone is nothing. And maybe you can borrow for a minus. So you guys have a huge cotton candy and you can get to about 40. And if your colleagues argue that some exchange rate differences, please, the state doesn't... The state, if a normal auditor came, he wouldn't even get a stamp on the books. He's out of balance, he's out of balance. So how do they want the exchange rate differences? What's the problem? I'll borrow the euro and borrow it again at maturity. I'm just turning it around. So you're wearing cotton wool. And someone here argued that how we actually pay for interest. Well, maybe you'll do the minus interest I had. And then the CNB was normal. She was nothing. But you know who's making money on it today, at the CNB's rate, don't you? Banks. Banks make money. Six billion a month! Dear citizens, 6 billion! For you to pay higher interest, mortgage. Well, the firm, of course. Now, the Minister instead of forgiving the companies for VAT, suggests he lends them money. Well, that's a real solution. Insurance companies, please call an expert. The balance of insurance companies 2020 was 61 billion, now it was 50, there is a lot of bills. And it would be good for Minister Válek to account for what he owes the health system to account for the whole thing. Because if he charges fair, he gets to minus 26 billion for the insurance companies, and by the end of the year, it's really not gonna be fun. So here I am actually... By the way, the President also criticized it, and he spoke, yes, 14 poor billion. And I don't think the health service really deserves it. It's not true that investments aren't prepared. It's not true. And if the Prime Minister isn't here, but he made the video in front of the Teplice station, there was a competition. And I think the... I don't know, it's about 250. So you don't have $250 million to reconstruct the Teplice Station? Then please do it. We have come up with a program since 2016, a program that for 10 billion we will reconstruct the station because these people will see it. Prague Station, when it's done, it'll be fantastic! Thank God our ancestors built it. And České Budějovice and others. And now you're going to take 9 billion of the Department of Transport? I don't understand why. So it's not true that the investments aren't ready. Thank God you're not taking the money from the SAD, but that's gonna show if you're really gonna continue with the cuts. Bypasses, yes, everything's ready, we've prepared it for you. Minister Kupka has built up 107 kilometers of highways. Why do you only have 200 in the government's programming statement? We have 300, we can tell you where all the highways are supposed to be. And, of course, we're gonna be rooting for you and helping you and for sure. Bypassing Prague. Now you're in the coalition, so let's finally move forward. The mayor was just trouble for us. Maybe now you'll succeed, and I'm sure we'll be happy about it. [[15.10 hours]] Well, the thing that got me the most is that when I'm here, I don't know who it was now? - Yeah, Minister Stanjura said the resorts got what they wanted. Well, that's unbelievable. How could you even say that? I'm fascinated by how your government works. Do you know how your government works? You're the boss, the Prime Minister doesn't speak to you. And those poor ministers, they don't even know what they've got. You're gonna break it down for them. Yes, it is. And the clerks, they don't know anything at all. But we worked, Minister, otherwise. I fought our ministers against Schillerová. And Klára Dostálová has 12 billion surpluses... i.e. surpluses, demand she didn't satisfy. These are investments, I don't know. The STAN movement here should be concerned, these are investments in communities that are missing, and that is what we wanted to do. So we fought with the ministers here, and we said to Schillerová, find the money, that's your problem! You're the minister! Well, actually, these ministers aren't legal because you're gonna break it down to them, or I don't know who's writing it down to you, and they're afraid to say anything at all. This is incredible! That's incredible how it works for you. And I don't really understand it, but, yeah, they're probably scared. I don't know how you do it in that coalition, who's afraid of who they won't dare say anything. [[entertainment]] And the fact that there's definitely no money to the resorts... You took the firemen. I fought for those firemen, ask Vlček! He didn't even have positions, and those firemen are the most important ones, right? They're everywhere, thank God they're helping us. Covid, accidents, fires, floods, everywhere, tornadoes. And you normally took their billion. Billion! You got the 62. So I just figured out some, I don't know, what, 40, so you could give them even more to actually have the technique. Yes, and that's about the safety of our people. So it's not a good budget, it's no savings. I'd like to see the savings. I'm sure I'll be rooting for you. I've always said the Civil Service Act, that's the law - that's hell, unfortunately, I was there, I don't know who did it anymore, what was his name, Dienstbier, Chovanec, how they argued there. And I'm sure there are reserves. I'm sure there are savings reserves. But as Prime Minister, I wasn't able to - yes, within the coalition, if we succeed, and if you have the Treasury, so you'll see every invoice, even for 500 crowns, then yes. That there's room, yes, but please don't tell me you've saved or you've got 77 billion savings. That's cutbacks. We don't know them. And, of course, at the Office of the Government, where we've prepared everything for you for the Presidency, the garden, you'll have a lovely conference room, the journalists will have a beautiful, everything we've prepared for you, the video I can send you, so... But, of course, you're hiring so many people at the government's office right now, it's incredible how much there is right now... So you're not saving up. You should have set an example. You didn't, but if you save somewhere else, of course, it'll be great information. The Prime Minister is not here. Please tell him, because you're the finance minister, so he doesn't say it's an anti-inflationary budget. [[to Minister Stanjur]] That's nonsense. That's nonsense. Because if you really mean it like Causescu, that you're gonna tell people you're not gonna drown, you're not gonna shine, and maybe you're gonna get some roll, yeah, I get that if they don't buy anything, so there's no inflation. And it's nonsense. And we're not saying that you're responsible for the inflation. The Prime Minister did it again today. And that's incredible, I don't know who's texting him, the speeches he could have said. How can he say that January inflation is some consequence of our government? Lednová... [[A note from the diaper.]] How clear? Inflation in January is 38.6 percent of the increase in electricity and natural gas. So what do you want to say? Inflation would be if people bought more gas and electricity. But they don't buy. They're still buying the same thing. And here your Czech Statistical Office says, independent, that it's because you didn't forgive their VAT. So 21 percent is your inflation, and the rest is global inflation. I think everyone will understand that 21 percent is your inflation because you don't want to give it to them. Eleven billion! If you put it at least for three months or five, six months or five months, but you and the priori don't want it because our government was the first one in Europe, then the Polák came along, then another one came along, everybody's doing it today. Sprinkle, well, let Mr. Síkela arrange that the ERO, put the electricity on the line. Operation Slovák, they've frozen prices for three years, even if there's a private investor, well, try it. Call the Supervisory Board of ČEZ, convene a general meeting. And I don't know what Mr. Famous Minorite Shareholder will tell you that he's still talking about twitter. He doesn't want to build a core, he just wants dividends! And the fact that ČEZ is making huge money today, and thanks to that swindler Bohemia Energy, all of these manufacturers will of course have an increase in clients and, of course, they will make a profit on it is quite clear. But I understand that when you privatize it and it's not a 100% daughter, it's hard to do anything about it. Look for an option for fuel, as the Polák and others did. I don't understand, can't you visit the finance ministers and ask how they do it, if you're not able to do it yourself? Poland - reduction of fuel from 23 to 8 percent. Everyone goes - the Moravian-Silesian Region goes to Poland, Liberecký also probably, Králové Hradecký. Belgium - reduction of electricity from 21 to 6. Okay. Spain, Bulgaria, Austria, France is ceilinging. Everybody does it. And you're proud not to, and you're setting an example of some Scandinavian country. You made your point, Minister, January 20... And I've said repeatedly that if I were in your position, I'd go to the Prime Minister and say, "Hey, Prime Minister, this is where we dropped into the lap of the $62 billion macroprediction, we're gonna go to a press conference and give it to the people. Pensions, VAT, everything. No, this is where you give people a few crowns after filling out an 11-page form. It is unbelievable that Minister Jurečka even argues. And what did you say on January 20th? We as a government have limited options to combat increased inflation. And I agree with that. But why does your prime minister say we're behind January inflation again? Well, that's really ridiculous. So we don't say what you said before Babiš's expensive election, but we blame you for simply not wanting to help those people. That's the biggest problem. And what really amused me most was that the resorts got what they wanted. Well, that's really great news. I'm curious about the schools, the projects. When I became Minister of Finance in January 2014 and then I found out that schools were missing in the Central Bohemia Region, schools because students stay here after studies, so I did the subsidy project, 26 billion went there! Twenty-six billion! And the source was savings from the government debt service. And how many union schools are there that need money? A great mayor in Drahelčice, who has six children, for those six children she succeeded now, we helped her, she managed to build a kindergarten and the first child goes to kindergarten. She's got six kids. And now he's building a school for 540 students. And do you know how many schools there are? Do you know how many towns there are that want money for that? Well, I don't understand how anyone can say they all got what they wanted. Then those ministers don't give a shit about their resorts, and they don't care. They don't care at all that they don't fight for their resorts. The Minister of Finance had better leave. [[The rapporteur responds off the microphone.]] Excuse me? That's good, so I'm sure you'll tell him what I said here, if he's interested, of course. But maybe not. [[15.20 hours]] So we'd like to learn more about the budget, about, of course, how you're going to stop, as the Prime Minister says, the inflation. I'm gonna be so interested. The Prime Minister might say when it stops, actually. Whether it stops by the end of March or when it stops. Because basically, it's nonsense, and I don't understand why someone's writing it in his speeches. I think we heard the president today in the best form, that his exhibit was great. He's an economist, of course. But all I can say for myself is that our movement has always reduced taxes. We've reduced them for 509 billion. Yes. I think we have low taxes to be attractive to our companies, to foreign investors, but that's up to you, of course, because the ODS always promised before the election that they wouldn't raise taxes, then you raised them. We've still heard that someone has to cancel the super gross wage, which we've heard for four years of Sobotkův's government, that didn't work. Now we've done it, and I think that's a good thing. And I don't think... Actually, if I accepted your rhetoric... And the president here says, "The ODS and the ANO movement canceled a super gross wage." We've reduced people's taxes. And I think that's a good thing. But the B you're saying... You're actually saying, "Well, we've canceled a super gross wage, they've got low taxes, and that's why it's inflation! That's nonsense! Absolute nonsense. Absolute nonsense. And look at the household savings. [[A note from the news desk.]] I know. But you're saying that we gave people money, and we gave it to them as part of the covid, but you gave it to them, too, because you voted with us to lower the tax. It follows that you're actually criticizing yourself. And it's nonsense. I don't think so. And, of course, prices are rising. Come on, where there's a little something... Yes, if these companies have nothing to make out of and there's not enough, then inflation is. But it's all coming in most of the time, it's coming in overwhelmingly from abroad. I think it's pretty clear in that direction. And it would be good if you didn't say that anymore. I understand that you're going to keep saying that, and how bad our finances are, and, of course, purposefully saying how much debt has increased. Well, yeah, but we can break it down, unlike the debt that he got under your governments, Kalousek had 690 billion. Where'd it go? The companies didn't get a penny - 2009 didn't get a penny from the companies, I remember it well. And we did. We gave hundreds of billions, so that's the difference. So I wouldn't hold back much longer, I've expressed my opinion on the budget. So we'd like to see the 77-billion-dollar schedule. For us, it's cutbacks. You're saying it's savings. You say you didn't limit your investment, we say yes. And we'll get you a list. And I am willing to call on all the mayors and mayors and captains who will not have enough money to invest, let them come. But I did it in our government, too, because I am convinced that we are to invest ourselves out of this crisis. You don't even deal with the resources from Europe. You want to shut down an EET that dropped out of $33 billion. I understand it's your political mantra and just confirmation that the honest businessmen are probably not good enough for you. So, of course, if you'll agree to give us some background, we'll be happy to get acquainted with it. And if you really save, really, but absolutely, but not on people like you started, and investment, you definitely have our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u49	Thank you. And before I give the floor to the facts that your speech has raised, there are so many apologies: Vice-President Skopeček between 15.00 and 16.30 from today's meeting day. Mr. Josef Bělica apologizes afterwards, between 18.30 and the end of the day for family reasons. And then, Mr Feranec, within the entire week of 15 February, for health reasons. That was an apology. And now, Minister, it is your turn to take action. The Minister of Finance and then Mr. Josef Bernard can prepare himself. Mr. Secretary, de facto. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. I tried really hard to take notes, but when the pussy with the dog cooked the cake, it was much more consistent than Andrej Babiš's speech from left to right, up down, triple-pointed rittberger, back again. I don't think anybody knew anything about that. However, a few notes. It's illogical. Mr Babiš first says: cities and municipalities have 330 billion, it is terrible, they do not know what to say in three minutes: the state gives little to those cities and municipalities. So either he's paying one or he's paying the other. Because if we put more in there, you'll say they don't have 330 billion in their accounts, but they have 360. But I'm interested in the cotton wool we have in there 9 billion. Let's talk about 5 billion because you wrote 45 in the draft budget. If I accept the words of Andrej Babiš that it will be 41, then you yourself have written a VAT of 4 billion. We put in five, I said for reasons of caution about inflation and rising interest rates. I didn't fight the ministers, you're right. Our Prime Minister is not the CEO of the holding, and the ministers are not his technical deputy. We are all equal, and we have discussed the draft budget in a whole, together, as a team. I don't know why you fell in love with the name Ceausescu, mentioned by President Zeman today. Then I thought you were a member of the Communist Party at the same time as Ceausescu.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u51	And now, please, with Mr. Josef Bernard in fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u52	I won't be long, I've got more notes. Then I'll save it for my summary. But maybe three notes. I've got the 77 billion here. [[It shows the relevant material.]] I'll count them. I don't have time for this right now. I'll present them here at the House plenary. Excuse me, Mr. Speaker. Excuse me, Mr. President. This comparison of state debt between 2014 and 2020 was already confusing. That's what the ex-minister of finance suggested, and then she'll probably straighten it out. But what I want to do is your thoughts on inflation, Mr. Speaker, are really wrong. Really wrong. And I have the impression that we are completely confusing the fundamental principles of inflation here. You said do something about the inflation, return the 62 billion that landed there, return the fare discounts. You know, I'm trained, and there was this master, and he always said, "I keep cutting it, I keep cutting it, and it's still short." And that's exactly your recipe: I pour money all the time, I pour money all the time, and my inflation keeps rising. Yeah, but that's how inflation works! Inflation is a decline in the purchasing power of money. The following is a faster increase in the amount of money in circulation than in production. Now answer the question, if you lower the price of energy by this state intervention, if you have fought inflation. I didn't. I'm not saying, we can argue here, we can talk about how to help citizens, there can be something about your opinions, but you certainly won't be lowering inflation. And that is not my definition of inflation, that is the definition of Mr Friedman's inflation, Nobelův Prize winner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u53	Thank you for keeping time. And now I can recapitulate what the priority rights are. [[Ambassador Babiš from space in front of the speaker's counter:]] It's still factual, okay. Please take a moment, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u54	I'm always shocked when people who don't know anything about this are lecturing me here, Mr. Ex-Ex-Eytman. Do you know what the Treasury is? It's a table. Can I show you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u55	Please, you need to talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u56	So don't tell any delusions and don't lie. The State Debt Service 2013 was 51 billion and 2016 was 40. Then why are you lecturing me? You have neither education nor experience nor anything! And you didn't hear what I was saying about inflation? I didn't say that Fiala, Prime Minister Fiala, caused inflation. He says January inflation is because of us. I said that inflation couldn't be controlled and that you were supposed to give people the money you cashed out of inflation. So try listening next time. You're out of your mind!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u57	Yes. And with Mr. Josef Bernard in fact. Next time, please, through Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u58	Through Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I reserve that I have lied. I've been levelling your thoughts on inflation, and I stand by it, we can easily look at the log, and we've compared the amount of government debt in 2014-2022, we'll look at the log, your data wasn't correct. And I really reserve such explicit terms that someone is lying. [[Rush in the hall.]] We may have different opinions, we may be wrong, but let's not throw words like that at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u59	Thank you. I'm gonna have to ask that there's no shouting in the room. Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Jan Jakob. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u60	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the representatives of the opposition, i.e. the side of the spectrum, which is responsible for the economic situation in which we are now, have spoken with priority rights so far. Well, I'm sorry that the former Prime Minister just left, but I understand that he always leaves. And I have to appreciate how he mentioned here, how he was on the budget committee, that this time he didn't mistake the date, and he even hit the right place where the others were, even for five minutes before he left like he just did. Many here have spoken from among the opposition, some term blunt cuts, especially from the former Prime Minister's mouth, who was unable to make any savings, and finally in that speech he admitted that it is necessary not only to give out, to buy voters, but to give out from a stranger, of course not from his own. I, of course, consider the proposal put forward here to be reasonable and, given the economic situation of our state, to be absolutely, absolutely necessary. Because if it hadn't been done, and if the trend that the previous government had set up here had continued, within two years, it would have had to be pulled behind the debt brake, and within a few years, we would have seen the financial collapse of our state. And you can twist your heads all you want, but those are clear facts, all the analyses of relevant economists, but even the budget board is very clear about that. However, I would appreciate two things from the previous presentation. I appreciate that the former Prime Minister once again commended my fellow mayors for being able to manage, unlike the former government, and I wanted to ask him - too bad he left - because as mayors, he called on us to go ask. For my mayorship, which has lasted for nearly 12 years, we have managed to invest a lot. We have invested in education over the years in our city, which has 8 000 inhabitants, it is nearby Roztoky, more than 500 million crowns. We were drawing from various funds, at the last investment from Europe, and so I'm going to ask - I don't know where to go, he said to come, I don't know if it was the Pruhonice to Sokolovna that was mentioned here last night? So here's the question: I'd be happy to take the advice on where to get the extra money. The second positive that I would mention, there's a new term here today. I thought the former Prime Minister had his show Hey, guys, and it looks like it's some kind of hello to the Czech Republic from now on, so I'm taking it positive. I feel that if the former Prime Minister had really done hi to the Czech Republic, it would have been the best thing for the Czech Republic to do. And perhaps the last positive that I am interested in is that we know that there is some new conference room that will pull us out of the Presidency of the European Union. That's great. But to the substance of the draft budget. First of all, I would like to thank the government and, in particular, the Minister of Finance, that they have revised the draft budget for this very short time and that the deficit, deficit, has been reduced by almost CZK 100 billion. It's very important. It is not only an important signal, but it is the facts that are the first step in bringing our country out of the debt trend, as I mentioned earlier. In that short time, I think it's the maximum possible, because of course, there was no way to look for savings in mandatory or quasi-mandatory spending. It's mentioned here as someone calls it a budget, and I don't think it matters what labels he has, or I suspect the president said the label, that it doesn't really matter. This is not important what we are going to call this budget, but it is important what it looks like and what the trend in public budgets or state budget will be, and I dare say this is the right direction. It is the direction for the future of our country, which will not be in the debt of the state and in the financial collapse. It is a direction that strengthens, significantly strengthens, compared to previous years and investment spending, it strengthens, and I would consider this very crucial especially at this time of crisis, because every crisis is also for the future, so I would consider the budget to be pro-innovative, a budget that supports science and research. And that is absolutely crucial to how our country will emerge from this crisis. [[15.40 hours]] I would like to thank the TOP 09, which is actually based on budgetary responsibilities, and finally the word responsibility is in the title, so I firmly believe that, as I thanked the Minister and the Government a moment ago, so that I can thank you for three years at the end of this government's term of office, when we can say that this trend has been able to turn around, that budgets are really responsible and that we have managed to reduce the deficits significantly below the limits of the Maastricht criteria. I believe that together we will succeed and that this will be important for the future of our country. Finally, let me point out that at this point we are at first reading. I also mention it because there were different opinions that we could have already gone through the first reading with the original proposal. They could not because at first reading we approve the amount of revenue, the amount of expenditure and the balance between these indicators, i.e. the amount of deficit, and it is then fixed amounts that cannot be changed. Therefore, it was necessary that the original proposal of the previous government was withdrawn and revised, and the deficit is almost 100 billion lower. That's absolutely crucial. I would like to continue to discuss this, although I understand that you will go into the details of the budget, but we are really at first reading when we approve these indicators primarily. Once again, I thank the government so much for changing the trend in this state's management. I believe that this will also be achieved in the coming years, not only in this first budget, which could only record minor changes that are possible at the moment, and that this is a good signal for the future of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u61	Thank you, too. The speech raised three factual points in the order of Mr Munzar, Mr Králíček and Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u62	Thank you. I wanted to sign up with the facts in response to Mr. Babiš, who is unfortunately not here, so I will say it now. For me, it was surprising how Mr. Speaker spoke about inflation, and at the same time criticized all the measures that lead to the reduction of inflation. He criticised the steps of the Czech National Bank and the growth of interest rates. This is an anti-inflationary measure that we may not have to like at such an amount, but it is an anti-inflationary measure. He criticized the appreciation of the crown. He criticized the reduction in government spending. And his recipe here, which he suggested, is to spend money on debt, which leads to an increase in inflation. Here I have to say that there is, after all, someone in the economy who is profiting from inflation, and these are big debtors. Very indebted states or very indebted firms, because, like inflation, the value of savings is cut short, so inflation also reduces the real value of debt. So I have to ask if the Prime Minister here fought to protect his savings or to protect his debts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u63	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr. Robert králíček. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u64	Madam President, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Jakob's output. You know, Mr. Jakob, you're insulting and humiliating us here with your arrogant speech, but you're humiliating our opposition's right to criticize. We're in opposition, if you haven't noticed, and it's our right to criticize the budget, but to criticize it factually. You know, you're challenging us and society to some kind of reconciliation, but a politician also has to be elegantly insulted. Maybe for me, Mr. Stanjura is a role model who can do it elegantly, he can do it in a matter of fact. But you really can't do it, so don't do it if you can't do it. [[President: Please, through the President.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u65	And now, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u66	Good afternoon, thank you. I, Mr President Jakob, will respond to you through Madam President, your funny ironic remarks. You have the right to them, we, of course, as opposition, too, but, you know, I like to say, I work with facts. I have a technical education and I like to look at the facts. So during your performance, I quickly opened up the Internet, publicly available resources. I'm going to do one or two things. TOP 09 was in government from 2010 to 2013. Those are the facts. From 10 to 13, government debt grew from 33.7 percent to 40,6 relative to GDP. So it grew by 7 percent. From that moment on, when you were talking about the downsizing, the trend changes, and so on, it fell until 2019 to 28. Now it's growing, we're in the Covido years of 20 and 21. But now that we're handing it over to you, we're still 39.1 relative to GDP, which is more than a percentage less than in 2013. I'm based on the official numbers of the Treasury Department, Mr. Finance Minister, which I see on the web. Thirty-nine-one. But even if we didn't, if we stayed with the trends, three years later, when the TOP 09, for which President Jakob here spoke, grew by 7 percent in proportion to GDP, declined by 12 percent over the next few years. So many facts, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u67	Thank you. And with the new de facto Mr. Josef Bernard. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u68	Excuse me, Madam President, it was one foul again, through you to Mr Kolovratník. And what happened in 2008? What happened in 2009? We've had the worst financial crisis in the history of this planet. In the history of this planet. [[Objection by Members YES 2011.]] And the second remark to the previous speaker before you. You know, I've been trying really hard here to argue what inflation is, explain the terms, use the terms as an ex-premiere. Have you seen the performance of Mr. Speaker? The explosion? Don't answer my comments? The answer to something completely different. I didn't get it at all. And calling me a liar? The explicit expression that was made here? Who started to interrupt, in my opinion, the kind of professional discussion we had here? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u69	Thank you. And now, with Mr Jan Jakob in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u70	Thank you. Just a very brief really factual response to Mr Kolovratník's colleague. I'm here in the previous discussions, the former minister remembers it, he had the charts, but it needs to be given a little context. It is something else to compare deficits in times of crisis and in times of growth. That's the big difference. And I said here three quarters of a year ago when you approved an increase in the state budget deficit for last year, that sometimes in the crisis, deficit funding is needed. But what we are putting on debt is needed to support future growth, to support innovations, to start growth and to pay back the debt from the crisis period because we have invested and that the economy has moved somewhere innovatively. That's the point. And that your governments were unable, at a time of economic growth, to have the resources for the future crisis here, that is unfortunately a sad fact, and that is so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u71	Thank you for keeping time. And now we return to the priority rights, where the Minister of Industry and Trade is applied for, and then Mr Patrik Nacher is registered with priority rights with the club's opinion. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u72	Madam President, honourable Members, I did not want to speak again today, but unfortunately I must, because I have to respond, on the one hand, to yesterday's call, to an economic debate or to an economic struggle with Mr Babiš, who has unfortunately left, to some of the things that have been said here. And yesterday I was called an arrogant, pompous banker, in the evening I learned from the mouth of former Minister Havlíček that I was Deputy Minister of Finance, and today I learned from Mr Babiš that as part of the government I was a poor minister, an unworthy minister who does not understand his numbers. I'll let Minister Stanjura judge if I'm a poor minister, an incompetent minister who doesn't understand his numbers. If I'm his deputy, we still have to negotiate how much I'm going to take for it. And I just want to point out that I think I understand numbers a little bit, because the balance sheet sum of the institution that I co-ordinated for five years and whose budget I was responsible for is about EUR 300 billion. If you multiply it by 24.50 by some current exchange rate, you'll find that it's a few times more than the state budget of this country. And I'm going back to the culture. This is where we blame ourselves for who's arrogant, who's not. I'm known, and those people who have known me for a long time know that I'm a very decent and very polite person unless someone attacks me unless someone humiliates me and someone ridicules me. And I must return to where this parliamentary culture began. I must return to the meeting on the trust of the government, which began with Mr Babiš's speech, which lasted an hour and a half and where we learned that the new government is more or less a group of incompetent amateurs whose only reasonable task is all the good that the previous government has prepared for it, actually to take over and approve. And I'm very opposed to that. And there was one thing that stopped me today. Today, the President has spoken here, who has made it clear that it is a question of economic theories, and he has applied here to Keynesianism, probably neo-Keynesianism, which experienced a certain Renaissance due to the great recession in 2008. And as it all turns out, we don't know yet, because Keynesianism went through a devastating criticism in the 1970's under President Nixon's rule, where it is believed that it was the extensive policy of both governments and then the sign banks, or the central banks, the FED, if you like, that was one of the causes of what has been said here several times today, and that was stagflation. And I was intrigued by one thing. Mr Babiš said a few things. He was talking about inflation, but he was talking about the part of inflation that we have today, that is, the so-called cost supply. But that's the inflation that's linked to the growth in energy prices that didn't come until the end of the year. He did not touch the inflation that was here before and whose reasons are on the side of the generous, giving policy of the previous government, and that is demand inflation. Mr Babiš said today that inflation cannot be controlled and that our budget is not actually anti-inflationary. If inflation cannot be tamed, it actually denied all the economic theories available, because - and I really don't want to train here, but we have the tools to tame inflation, we have monetary policy, we have a policy that doesn't stimulate the rapid growth of aggregate demand in full employment conditions, which means we have a central bank policy that either reduces the mass of money in the economy or raises interest rates. This is the responsibility of a national bank, an independent institution. I can have an opinion on what they're doing. But we do know that if someone tries to interfere with the activities of the central bank, because he does not like its policy, as Mr Erdogan does in Turkey, for example, as he was not very successful. He switched four governors, but he's got double-digit inflation, and he's got double-digit interest rates, so it didn't help him. And as for the restrictive policy on the fiscal side, it's about pension policy, about wage freeze, about wage growth, it's about regulating the price of goods, and it's all about the difference between stagflation and stagnation and recession, it's just that if we get the economy into stagflation, we're going to have high inflation here, and we're going to have recession here. And if we look into the '70s, then just some elements of why stagflation happened for the first time and actually since then, and those three reasons were the shocking change, the rise in oil prices. We have something similar here on the supply side, we have an increase in energy prices or natural gas. Then it was a tremendous pressure on wage growth, handing out, expanding state policy - new money, new loans. And, of course, the extensive policy of both governments and central banks. That means that we're stopping the handing out, so that's the anti-inflationary part of our budget. And it's all about that - and unfortunately I have to disagree with what the President has suggested, because I know that every story has as many versions as the storytellers have, but we've all sat here and listened. And my interpretation of what the President said to whom everyone applauded here from the opposition benches, so my interpretation was that our budget, in terms of reducing the deficit, is not ambitious enough that we should withdraw the deficit even more, by actually removing the so-called tax exemptions, which in practice would mean reducing disposable income to pensioners, which is the biggest item that we're going to reduce disposable income to those who tax on dependent activities, that's the super gross wage, that's 90 billion if you remember them. That means we're gonna cut the revenue to the people you're calling now that we're actually supposed to give them even more money. And the second thing he's saying is that the money we're going to get is we're going to invest in some projects, for example, in that channel. So, so that we don't get the economy into stagflation, and so that we don't get into the situation that, on the one hand, the central bank is holding the economy back because it's her duty, so we're actually going to be stepping on gas at the same time, so that's just a very simple explanation why we in logic can't accept your arguments that the way out of this situation is to get more in debt, give more and spend more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u73	Thank you, too. With a factual point, Mr Martin Kolovratník is registered. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u74	That'll be 30 seconds. I said I like to work with the facts, so I have to set the facts straight. Zbyněk Stanjura was right, I thank him for that, I acknowledge my error and inaccuracy in the sense that the graph I presented was valid in September 2021, the final result was higher, and if I am not mistaken, Minister, it was 40.8, so relative to GDP the value comparable to those years 2012 and 2013, let us be correct, let it be fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u75	Thank you. Now with priority rights with the club's opinion, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u76	Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Minister's taking notes. I'm glad, after calling it that, those three days after that political porn, we're getting to some content stuff, numbers, stuff like that. Before I go into that budget, a few notes. I would ask my colleagues from the government, they probably didn't get used to changing roles, they're in the coalition, we're in the opposition, we're asking questions, you're answering. I've been taking notes here, often instead of answering them, they're just reactions or attacks or some inaccuracies. One of them has just been repeated by the Minister of Industry. She already, I noticed it from a coalition MP on Twitter that we applauded when the president said he would cancel all the exceptions. That's not true. We applauded at very different moments of the speech. That's exactly what it's starting to be, like, this kind of nonsense, and then it reacts that we want to cancel all the exceptions and show it with the applause. No. You just did it again, and it's on one of the MP's twitters. I will start with one positive sentence, which I recorded in the speech - I made honest remarks - the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, that taxes will not increase. It's okay, I'd sign that. That's one thing I'd appreciate you for. And at this point, it's probably the last thing that's positive. At the same time, I am glad, fair and square, that you will therefore not repeat the 2012 and 2013 strategy when there was a similar crisis like this, that is the answer to the rapporteur again, we should have remembered what was ten years ago. So I'd tell him to remember what happened a year ago and two years ago. It never happened that the whole economy was closed not only in the Czech Republic, in Europe, in the world, all business ties were broken, we could not move here. I think it was much worse, then. I'd even say psychologically, psychologically, than what was ten years ago, when you could call it a classic financial crisis that comes back from time to time. This was brand-new. And then, I remember that taxes were rising. That's why I underlined it. The real estate transfer tax increased, then it was called the real estate acquisition tax, from 3% to 4%, by one percentage point. Then I remember my honored colleague, Vojtěch Munzar, over there, who, when he was in opposition, had suggested that he cancel it 75 times. In the end, we canceled when there was an YES movement in the government. As well as those ten years ago, there were cuts such as that the care allowance for the most necessary ones I can remember from 2,000 to 800 crowns. So I'm glad you won't repeat these things. Here, before I begin, before I go to the numbers and to the specific questions, the Prime Minister said that the previous government was populist politically and financially, so that in the following sentence he boasted that this government would receive the highest increase in pensions. Well, first of all, it has to be said that automatism is triggered there, and I would almost say that you have nothing else left when inflation is around 10 percent. But I was struck by the fact that it was in two sentences in a row. We've been populists, you're not populists, but you're also gonna raise pensioners in the last 30 years. Of course, there are some things that have been pouring out in those speeches, and I understand it politically, how bad the government is right now, and it has to fix the whole thing. So I'm going to say a few numbers and indicators here to see the context. In 2013, unemployment was around 7 %, 2021 2.8. In 2013, the Czech Republic was ninth in terms of GDP-to-EU debt last year. Average salaries between 2013 and 2021 in the public sector have risen from 24,000 to 37,500, I hope you will not catch me on the koruna, as well as pensions between 2013 10 970, almost 11,000, to 15 350. [[And 2021?]] This also implies emotionally that according to different rankings these people, despite the crazy covid, which bothers you and us, lived better here. When I looked at the feeling of security, in 2013, we were in the 14th place as the Czech Republic, in 2021, in the ninth place. As well as the index of happiness, we can think anything about it, but it's just some subjective view of those people, so in 2013 the Czech Republic was 39th place, last year on the 16th. That means there's a significant shift. The first things were numbers, you don't get around, the other things were the feelings of the people who live here, and I think it's good to think of them as feedback. In his speech, the Minister said in the first sentence that the budget was responsible and anti-inflationary. I wrote to myself. To respond, I spent that time offering him a mirror and feedback that I don't think he's responsible, explaining what I think about your anti-inflationary policy. We've already started this debate on the budget committee. I'll start by saying that the budget is responsible. So I'd ask you, to whom? I've lined up the individual chapters of the state budget from the one where it doesn't cross out, that's the green line, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that's the pensions, up to the red one where it cuts the most. [[It shows the background.]] Oddly enough, the Department of Transport, SFDI, which is quite an interesting thing. I'm assuming that my fellow experts will look into this as they will build here in the future. And this shows that it is cut in all items, about eight lines is zero, the Office of the President, the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the Constitutional Court, and so on, and the only one where it goes up is the Office of the Government. I have already commented on this several times, the answer was that it is because of the Presidency, but at the same time we all know that it is because of three new ministers, 74 places that are at the Office of the Government. But I'm just mentioning it here because it's a symbol. Because when everything gets cut off and the only thing where it goes up is the Office of the Government, it's a symbol for people. Especially when they are cut off in areas such as health care. When we've still got that rag on our faces for the last two years, we're feeling it sensitively. And there's cuts everywhere, and it's going up at the Office of the Government. It's a symbol for me, you're gonna defend it, all right. Second, a responsible budget, responsible politicians. I looked at all the promises you made, how you crossed it out, before and just after the election, and I found numbers - maybe fill me in - between 60 and 120 billion. 120 billion said Minister Stanjura, 60, at least, Mr Interior Minister Austrian. In the end, it's less than 34.5 billion, so we're at half of what you wanted to cross off. And I'm comparing the expenses that were prepared in the previous government's budget and the expenses that you have. That's right. Those are clear numbers. [[16.10 hours]] Which reminds me of what I had to ask the Minister, and he said back then: Why didn't you dust off your own amendment when you were in opposition, where you cut 80 billion? Last year. That was your amendment, and you had a chance to dust it off. And you replied that you would dust him off, but the coalition partners didn't agree to it. That was the answer, and it was the moment we were discussing trust with the government. Third comment on the responsible management and budget. And again, we've already started it on the budget committee, the 14 billion lower payments for state insured people. First of all, it's exactly what you've always criticized in those previous governments. I remember the digital tax that's in the budget, the $2 billion, but it's not approved yet, the law. Let me just remind you he was here at second reading. The news is, here in the House, the law that makes it possible isn't. You probably said you'd discuss it with the government next week. But it's not here. So you're counting on lower expenses, but the law isn't in the Chamber of Deputies yet. The symbol, and that's important in politics, is that the other foot of this thing is that it is in the health care that went through the purgatory around the covideo that it will be there to send 14 billion less for the state insured. And that doesn't sound like a good signal to me when we say and praise health and health professionals that they're in the front line. The fourth point concerns purely my area - consumer protection. If you look at Chapter 349 of the Energy Regulatory Office, there is less than CZK 15 million compared to the original proposal. I'll remind you from 1. 1. 2022 is a new law that deals with, like, the intermediaries. We are raising the agenda to those out-of-court bodies, such as the ERU, so we are trying to protect consumers more. There was an odd consensus on this in the last term of office. You have it in your programming statement. But here you have 15 million less for such a thing, as with Chapter 328 of the Czech Television, where it is even 1 525 million lower. That's because you don't have a billion and a half for that universal service. I've already asked the Minister how he's going to do it if the post office is entitled to the billion and a half. He said it wouldn't happen. Well, I'm kind of curious about that, because I know that last term, there's been quite a bit of a fight going on. I didn't support it, but it's just a billion and a half sooner or later it's gonna come out somewhere. But despite this, if I cross it off, there's a drop of CZK 25 million. I remind you again of the ZEK amendment, the Electronic Communications Act. Greater responsibilities for the office, greater consumer protection, but the budget will be and is cut off. Furthermore, of course, we will find cuts in the Ministry of Health almost 6 billion, SFDI 7.5 billion, which I cannot get back together with the investment priority. MŠMT 5.2 billion. But I'm sure my colleagues, who are expertly familiar with these cuts, will comment on these cuts. As far as the anti-inflationary part is concerned, Minister, we had a debate on the Committee on Budgets with the head of the National Budget Board, which explained what the budget was. In principle, I understood from the opening speech of Minister Síkela in trust with the government that our compensations were so flat and that we actually started inflation. I'm not going to repeat the theories here that if somebody gets money, there's no power under it, so the consumption shifts, which then there's nothing to spend on -- I'm going to speed things up here, don't delay it, the theory -- and that's what the inflation is. And it's a start. On a theoretical level, I would agree with that, but here I think the example is limping, it's wrong. And here I will remind you of what I said to you in general on the Committee on Budgets, and what I found then: that the current coalition, the former opposition - that is for you, Minister, because you are new here - it was she who often proposed compensation, proposals, subsidies, bonuses that were greater than what the government came up with. And that needs to be recalled, since we're already talking about the fact that the compensations were dimensional, unnecessary, broad, and led to inflation. And I chose for you here - then I give it to the minister, he always takes the paper from me and I give it to him. I cut it from nine sides to four. Of the four, I've taken notes, I'm just going to read some examples to remember, because it's forgotten that you, as a former opposition, have suggested a more generous, generous matter here. So print 808 on the compensation bonus. For example Zbyněk Stanjura - bonus increase from 500 to 600 crowns. I'm not gonna say that for everything, where I looked it up, I'm gonna say the differences, that would be about 3.2 billion. The compensation bonus is to be exempt from income tax on natural persons. Furthermore, in order to include them in the compensation bonus as well as the CFI for ancillary activities, this would amount to a total of CZK 8.3 billion. Marian Jurečka in the same law, in the same proposal he came up with the businessmen engaged in a gainful activity in the form of a limited liability company. Then there are some other suggestions. I gave away the duplicates or repeatings or what Miroslav Kalousek or Mikuláš Ferjenčík suggested, which are not here, so they can't react. Print 830, an amendment to the compensation bonus. Marian Jurečka proposes to add to the draft an extension of the term of payment of VAT for the whole period of 2020. The delay would mean a drop of some 150 billion at that point, however much it would return in the following year. But it's a suggestion. Come in. For 2020, abolish the obligation to pay road tax. Amendment - to clarify the definition of crisis measures and the claim is also granted by the CFI, which are also employed, CZK 250 a day. I leave out 500 crowns a day for Pendlers, and so on. Vojtěch Munzar, who I am looking at, again came up with a proposal to extend the range of people who reach the compensation bonus to micro-enterprises. Now I've got Mikuláš Ferjenčík here, I'll pass. And here I have Zbyněk Stanjura again, who proposed in period 1. 5... 8. 6. increase it to CZK 700 per calendar day and in the following period until the end of August to CZK 900. The aim of the proposed amendment is to adjust the list of compensatory bonus entities so that they are also affected by the CFI, which have income from employment up to CZK 10,000. Honza Skopeček - submitting an amendment to extend the scope supported to all CFIs on condition that those who neglected the original proposal now receive half the aid. Print 850, once again compensation bonus. Věra Kovářová, expand the circle of family members. A family member for the purposes of this Act shall be a family member of the fourth grade. And so on and so forth. Then there are some other suggestions. Print 1055, Věra Kovářová, payment of a one-off non-refundable contribution of CZK 500. And then there are other proposals for a compensatory bonus, extending its impact on other fields at the moment when the affected person was not directly affected by a ban or restricted by the activity. That means the ones that were attached to it. [[16.20 hours]] Please, Minister, I am missing this because I do not want to delay, there are four pages of prepared various proposals, where the compensation and compensation were larger, longer, for more subjects, people, and in sum we are talking about tens of billions more. Something's gone through, something's gone through. But it seems totally unfair to me at the moment that you, as a opposition, are becoming a coalition, criticizing after everything we've been through here, these compensations and bonuses for the past period, with the fact that they've become the basis for that inflation. 'Cause you guys designed those compensations and compensations a lot bigger. If I wanted to stall, I'd read all the suggestions you had here. Print 1134, that's the freshest one, to raise the bonus from 500 to 667 crowns a day, and so on, I could continue this way. Some even with retroactive effect from 1 January. Print 1160, Marian Jurečka and so on. I don't want to delay. I mean, you guys suggested it, so if it goes through, there's a lot more money out there. Then I wonder what the Minister of Industry would say. The sum of the sum for me and for us, the way it is conceived, is not the budget responsible. I explained the reasons, I asked some questions. But it doesn't even meet the parameter of the anti-inflationary budget, or I see a little bit of the schizophrenic position where, at the moment you were in opposition, you wanted to give more resources to compensate, and now that you're in the coalition, you're going to read what you could on those compensations. So much to sum up the view of the state budget, which therefore does not support the ANO movement, and colleagues who are applied for by me will discuss individual chapters and ask questions to individual ministers. Thank you for your attention and for any answers to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bernard and then Minister Stanjura are ready with the facts now that this has raised a number of factual points. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u78	Thank you, I promise it will be in one minute. I will only respond to what was happening to me, my fellow Member from the Committee on Budgets, through you, Madam President. Well, let's do one thing. Now that we're talking about comparing your years and our years, let's just forget for a second that he was covid, that there were some anti-cocid measures, and we have one tool for that. Let us compare the budgets of 2019 and 2022, as you suggested. Do you know how much the increase is? About 375 billion crowns. Do you know how much inflation was in this period over the period 2019 to 2022? Ten percent. If you were only following the rise in inflation, you would be entitled to propose a budget of approximately CZK 156 billion. He has already pointed out to the SAO that many of the increases in the state budget deficit in these years were not caused by the covido measures at all. We have a simple tool to compare 2019 and 2022. And I don't really have that short of a memory, Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u79	Thank you and now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u80	To use the popular sentence of today's opposition Members, I am disappointed at the level of Mr Nacher's speech. 34 billion savings, so don't criticize 77 when you say 34. Well, at least tell me which 34 it is, and you criticize, and then leave the others, pretend they're not there. That demonized government office has a total budget of 1.5 billion, a symbol. If we leave a small amount to the Presidency, there are savings in the Office of the Government. Because we had to have 100 million there, the Presidency, then you can check that they went there, and the total cost went up 74, so at least 26 million there was savings. And I'm not gonna talk about how you cut the drug policy, we put $66 million in extra, which means, that's 166, the savings were much higher, we just put the savings on another part. And the seven chapters where he's zero, so I explained it here. These are chapters discussed by the Committee on Budgets. Do not worry, be calm, at second reading, at third reading you can then vote for them, for the savings, including the Chamber of Deputies. It's still called 74 new jobs. Well, it's true. So I tried to set an example as Minister of Finance, in my department I cut - not saved, but cut - 650 jobs; 650 and I'm nowhere near finished there. So don't tell me jobs are growing somewhere. Somewhere, somewhere, no, we didn't go across the board. Some colleagues logically need more time to come up with this over the course of the year. So don't worry, everything's coming. I just wanted to say, choose whether the savings are small or brutal because they can't pay both. If it's 34 billion, they're really small. [[Time!]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u81	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Minister Jozef Síkela will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u82	Yes, thank you. I also want to respond to my colleague Nacher. He's got his show, and he's very critical of double standards, but I have to say, he clearly used half the truth in his speech here. Yes, it is true that we wanted compensation based on the principle that when the state forbids someone's business and livelihood, they have to replace it, and that is enough and must not forget anyone. That's the first half of the truth. The other half of the truth, we also told you not to close retail and services, we told you that you discriminated against some of the entrepreneurs when the big supermarkets were open and small closed. And we also told you that the damage to the economy would be significant and that the best compensation is the one that doesn't have to pay off. I will give such an example of such typically unnecessary compensation for debt, or not unnecessary compensation, but an unnecessary decision that led to those compensations, and that was the pre-Christmas closing of the Christmas markets by the Babišův government. That's a typical example. It didn't do anything medically, but it did damage to the economy, damage to the people's economy, and especially the enormous damage to their business - and it certainly deserves compensation - which our government has prepared. But those compensations are also due to debt, and unfortunately, it is the result of the bad decision of the Babišův government. That's the other half of the truth. And while we're at the half of the truth, the increased expenses, and thus the increase in debt in the previous two years, have only gone from less than half to covido measures. Less than half, but not the other half. And we've clearly challenged you here, it's in the tapestry that we're calling you to start saving from operating expenses in the past few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u83	Thank you. Now, the last in fact, Minister Síkela. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to an apology. Mr Patrik Nacher 16.30 to 19 hours today for family reasons. Please, your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u84	I want to respond to what you said about President Zeman's speech, that you only responded to a certain part. And that's exactly about the half-truths and picking out the cherries. The report was that we were criticized for the fact that the deficit that we presented was too large and should be even smaller. That's just the way it is. [[16.30 hours]] Second thing. You're still blaming yourself by having the lowest unemployment and the highest savings in history. Nobody criticizes the last government for giving compensation. We're criticizing that you were handing out these compensations without common sense, without control. Now I don't know how many more months and years I'm going to have to look back at whether the compensation was paid right because it's imposed on me by the law, and the control didn't exist at all. You're saying we should help. Yesterday, Mrs. former Secretary Schillerová said it again. But I'm not helping casinos. I'm not helping oligarchs who have enough money anyway. And I'm not going to help any compensation that runs through accounting at the moment they leave, and they're paid as dividends abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u85	Thank you. Beautiful afternoon. I've taken over the meeting. Madam, honourable Members, that was the last point in fact. We are returning to the priority rights, where the chairman of the KDU-ČSL MP's club, Mr Marek Výborný, is next. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to join the debate for which I am actually glad, because this debate is largely substantive, and that is how it should be with the State Budget Act. And I remember very well that this was the case in the last term. I won't be too long. But to hear the voices here, not only the opposition, which are critical of the logic of the matter, but also to be able to recall some things and to say what they really are. I've taken notes on some performances, and I'll do the same, or I'll try to react briefly. But in the beginning, let me express my great thanks. Thank you to this government and to individual ministers, because it was indeed a Hussaric piece. I did not envy them at the first meeting of the government on December 18th, because it was really not easy to get over the various chapters of the state budget in the order of 45 days. Not only ministers themselves, but also ministers, officials, deserve to be thanked, because it really wasn't easy. And I want to point out here that, as a coalition of the SPOLU and the second government coalition, we have given a clear promise to the voters that we will behave budgetaryly responsibly, that the revolving debt is largely due to the fact that the past government has tried to bribe voters around here with various more or less populist packages, even during that period of short elections, so we really do not want to continue this practice. We made a promise to reduce the state budget deficit to less than 300 billion, so we also fulfilled it. And most importantly, we have to stop what's been going on in the last three years, and I'm going to be fair, of course, to some extent, it's the covid and the cost of covid, but - and I want to point out - there's no excuse for that. That the debt has increased by CZK 90,000 in the last three years to a citizen of the Czech Republic, and today we owe CZK 250,000 to every citizen of the Czech Republic, so unfortunately that is reality. And let me just remind you that from the cost of covid, which went in the context of increasing the state budget deficit in recent years, really, the cost of covid ended up some 30, maybe 35 percent. No more. So the money's been eaten. The money was used up. The money was distributed within all possible different packages just before the election, so that we could try to saturate, bail out voters. The result didn't show up, thank God for it, and our government can come up with a responsible budget. It comes with a responsible budget, which seeks savings mainly at the level of traffic and the state itself, not at the level of citizens. The budget is clearly not directed against citizens, but in their favour. No stupid cuts, as it sometimes sounds, are made. We, and our ministers, are really looking for savings so that we can help you citizens in the finals, for example, in taming the cost, when questions are repeatedly raised here, when, what are you going to do about it? So it is this budget, which is being discussed here at first reading, that is one of the tools to stop inflation, return it to reasonable numbers and stop it from growing expensively. But let me respond to some of the other things, because here they sound a little bit like a carousel, and they need to be answered. First thing - the 14 billion of the health insurance reserves. Let's see how these things are. This government maintains state contributions for students, children, seniors, disabled people at the same level as the previous government in 2021. Thus, we maintain the amount of contributions at the same level, which is precisely the use of the 14 billion of reserves, which is 56 billion, as I believe MEP Andrej Babiš said here. So there is no starvation of insurance companies. Please, let's not scare people here. That sounds like it's been ringing again and again. This is not a threat to the quality, availability or scope of health care. The government will never allow this. That is why these things were also consulted by the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance, with the directors of all health insurance companies. And in this we can clearly assure every citizen: there is no such thing as not only a threat, but there will be no such thing. So that is the first thing that needs to be emphasized once again, so that the atmosphere of fear is not created here again, that someone may not get the necessary, quality and available health care. The second thing - that is quite fascinating to me - is the ability of some opponents to concentrate on a complete microdetail in the state budget, and that is the budget of the Office of the Government, because it is actually under anyone's discernment when we look at the overall parameters of the state budget and someone pulls out the microdetail of the Office of the Government. It's very sweet. But again, I would like to remind you that if we had left the budget of the European Presidency, which would then significantly jeopardise the reputation of the Czech Republic as well as our responsibility for the second six months of this year under the European Presidency, then we would indeed have cutbacks within the chapter of the Office of the Government. We have rejected what the last cabinet has prepared here, and that is why there has been an increase, among other things, in the chapter of the European Presidency, and this has really brought us to an increase. But it has some real foundation and justification. And one more important thing. What we want, what our government has committed itself to, and it is related to the savings that we are looking for, so it is really necessary to start doing something with digitization, not staying at the level of previous years, when it was talked about very much, everyone was enchanted by how digitalization would save, but the deed escaped, and there was no link between the different resorts. This is why the resort was created, not separately, but the team, which will be dedicated to digitization, and in cross-cutting terms at the level of the entire government, will be dedicated. And that's a positive thing. If we want to simplify the agenda for citizens of the Czech Republic, we really need to do something about digitization. I was far from paying attention to all that was said, but I really thought it was important to poke these two things out here. Once again, the budget is prepared realisticly, unlike the previous years, it is prepared budgetaryly responsibly and we are doing what we promised the citizens. I thank all the ministers and the government once again for preparing the budget, which they did not have in their hands from the start, therefore, of course, it is not perfect in all parameters. It was working with what was on the table. But what they've done for the last 45 days shows that what we've promised will actually come true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u87	Thank you, too. I would like to read one apology at the moment. Mrs. Věra Adámková apologizes from the meeting on 18. 2nd between 17.00 and 21.15 for work reasons. At this point, it always happens that with priority rights at this point, I'm supposed to perform. That is why, at the moment, Vice-President Havlíček will be premiered, whom I will ask very much to represent me in my performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first performance, so I hope I will not spoil it immediately. And I give the floor to Vice-President of the House of Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I must, at this point, react a little to Mr Marek Výborný's speech, which said here that the budgets that had been drawn up in the past were not budgetaryly responsible. There's no way I can agree with that. You've seen many of these graphs when the YES movement came into government, so first we had the Ministry of Finance, then we had the Prime Minister, and you also know the figures in which the funds were passed to us against GDP. At this point... that number was somewhere 45, 46 percent of GDP debt. Then it fell to 29 percent of GDP in our government, you know that too, but we all know that, and we didn't expect a pandemic to come in 2020, with which not only the Czech Republic and other countries are facing. And I hope you know for sure what other states are in debt, and they're to a much greater extent, and they're at 80, 90 percent. That is why we keep saying that even though we are two years after the pandemic, we are the sixth least indebted country within the Czech Republic. And I also have to say that I have been sitting in this House for the last four years, and you have also put forward a series of proposals that have had huge implications for the budget. And I remember that even some of the proposals you managed to get through. And that's a fact. I see your colleague confirms that. So I don't think what you're saying here is entirely fair. But now for my speech. I'd like to say that I know it's hard to draw up a budget. And the chairman of the budget committee, my colleague Pepa Bernard, knows because he was the governor just like me, that the budget is actually the most important law. The cook that everyone has to follow. And everything, and that's just how it is, it starts and ends with money. And when you draw up that budget, you have to be most responsible in the revenue part. Because if it doesn't come true, it's obvious it's gonna be a huge mess with that part of the expense. I still think that the current government went the way of the provisional budget, so it was a bad move. I'm sure I have to admit that it's not a good thing, and I'm sure it's not our fault, it's not ours, it's not yours, it's yours, it's the October dates. And I understand that if a new government comes, it's kind of hard to draw up a budget in a few weeks, so I get it from this side. But on the other hand, you all know that the budgetary provisional is within the expenditure part by only being able to draw one twelfth, you can't possibly implement investment actions and a lot of things. So I personally think that the way that was supposed to happen and which could have been is that the budget is approved and then the government and everyone can come and the budget can be adjusted. But, of course, the resorts can already work, the contracts can be realized. Because you can't put out a tender today to fix a road or make a contract because you'd be in breach of budgetary discipline. You must have a financial cover first. That's just the way it is. And I think my colleague Pepa Bernard definitely knows that too. And if you put out a contract and didn't have the financial cover, it's a violation of budgetary discipline at the time. And now I would like to comment on the Ministry of the Interior's budget. So I am very sorry that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rakušan, is not here at the moment, as I see in the media, and I think he's going to be dealing with some sort of case, but maybe he's going to come or watch it, and that he's going to comment on my questions, if necessary. You all know that one of the most important areas that we need to ensure, whether at the municipal, government level, is security. You know, in trust with the government here, I strongly criticized that it was promised that those who helped and helped the most, and that spectrum of people, of course, is larger, but those who fall under the Ministry of the Interior, which are police officers and firefighters, so that they were promised to receive a raise of CZK 1,400. Finally, it was decided, and the Minister of the Interior presented it as a huge success, so that they would receive 700 crowns. Only the cops get it. But we've got cops who are in plainclothes. We have 10,000 plainclothes cops. We've got about a thousand Civic Firefighters. So they didn't get you a raise at all. And I think they helped, and they deserve a raise, too. When I look at the proposed budget and the press release issued by the Home Secretary, and at the outset, he wrote that he would not spare on people, the press release is not based on the truth. Because if you look at it then you will learn that the Police of the Czech Republic took 1 billion 600 million crowns and the fire department also took one billion. And the last government has pushed for 3,000 posts to be added to the cops, and all the county police headquarters are trying to get police recruits. And at this point, I don't know if any of these cops have been cut off at that rate, which we're most likely to find out after that. At the same time, we don't know what's going to happen to the food. Whether the cops have food or not. Because the Home Secretary didn't answer that to me in confidence with the government either. And there's one more thing, and that's that the cops are getting a so-called stabilization supplement. I was talking about it with the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Finance, Mrs. Schillerová, who told me that every time she raised her budget for the police, Mr. Hamáček always came and said, "But that's not enough! Once there's that amount, we still have to add the stabilization allowance, or extra. Now I practically think the cops don't know at all today: will we be entitled to a meal? Are we gonna get those stabilization contributions? Well, seeing as the billion of 690 million is being cut, I'm starting to get very worried. And so if the places that were above all to the level that we're all calling for, which are police officers in district departments, police in traffic, foreign police and so on, so if I write that I'm not going to save on people, I don't think it's really based on the truth at the moment. And then when we look at the firefighters, it's one billion crowns for the firefighters. There it will most likely affect investment, and it will touch both voluntary firefighters and professional firefighters. I'd just like to say that now that the pandemic was the material and all that stuff were secured by firemen, secured by fire trucks and so on. And now we don't want to give them the money to rebuild these cars. Because every year there was a subsidy programme for voluntary firefighters amounting to CZK 200 million. I'm curious to see how mayors and people from the coalition's communal level will stand up to this, and the $200 million was spent on repairing fire-arms, and it was for the purchase of both transport cars and tank-vehicle syringes. And this won't be. Then there won't be 700 million for professional firefighters, where we won't give them money for high-rise technology. I must say that high-rise technology is very lacking, and it is necessary to constantly renew this so that firefighters can have it at their disposal. [[16.50 hours]] For what I must commend, it is a strike, or the savings to ensure the performance of the Ministry of the Interior and other organizational units, I fully agree with that. And the fact that we've managed to find a savings of 1.3 billion, I agree with that. We all know that the Ministry of the Interior has a sports centre, we have a lot of successful athletes there, such as Martina Sáblíková and others. There is also saving. I can't tell, and it's 16 million - but I can't see under that lid, why, for what reason - the savings. Certainly what I would not agree with is an increase of 300 million in the Presidency. Well, let's say I have $300 million for the Presidency here, and I have the firemen and the cops. Any reasonable person would give it to the firemen and the police. So I know that my colleagues will still perform after me, and there's one more thing in that press release. I don't know who writes the press releases at the Ministry of the Interior, but it says here - for firefighters: Investment that cannot be realized this year has simply been postponed by the Ministry. I'm sorry, but I'm either making an investment, or I'm not. I don't know any postponed investment. And I think that if you ask all the mayors in our 6 250 municipalities, they have so many fire-arms projects ready to repair, that it's always a drop, the 200 million that go for it, and I consider it a huge shame that this doesn't work for fire-fighters and cops. I will end my speech by saying that security is one of the most important areas, and I therefore consider that these funds have been taken away from police officers and firefighters as very irresponsible, and I will certainly make amendments to that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for yes. Vice-President Vildumetz is returning to the chair of the meeting.]] I thank my colleague Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, very much for representing me. I see that my speech has not raised any factual point, so at this point we are finally getting into a general debate. No one else with priority rights is reporting at this time. Or is the Home Secretary reporting? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u90	Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I thank you for your comment and your through you to yourself. I'm sure you know this as an experienced MP, there are also TVs, monitors in our offices, and of course I listened carefully to your performance, and I interrupted a work meeting on the Czech Police's agenda, which I had here in the House, so I didn't rest anywhere, and I listened carefully to how you spoke here about the Ministry of Interior's budget, and, of course, I will respond to a few basic issues here. As far as the Ministry is concerned, if you have well encoded where we saved, I understand that this is not quite simple in the tables, so the crucial 6 percent of the budget where we saved, quantified to CZK 600 million, the Ministry of the Interior saved on the operation of the Ministry itself. Of course, it won't be easy, but when it starts saving up, it always has to start saving up at home. Likewise, if we are talking about limited investment in our resort, it is also necessary to mention very well and in detail that in these investments we started to save again on the so-called small inside, that is, on our internal investment, on repairs of real estate belonging to the Ministry of the Interior's property, and only then, of course, we got to the austerity mechanisms, which could to some extent also affect congregations. On the other hand, we did not get our budget under the financial conditions available to the congregations last calendar year. That's what needs to be realized. Yes, the budget, as proposed by the last government after the election, of course, suddenly counted on many other additional expenditures. And we simply promised a budget that would somehow be an austerity budget, which would be a budget, but at the same time ensure the smooth operation of all the elements that fall under the Ministry of the Interior, of course police officers and firefighters. We have raised 700 crowns to tariffs and the real wages of police officers and firefighters will indeed increase. Even what you guys are firefighters and police officers last summer, if I'm not mistaken, they gave, that's what's called a meal, but you've already forgotten to prepare for your draft budget. There wasn't a penny for it. She was nothing to a meal. And believe me, I've succeeded in the fact that both police and firemen currently have that meal money. Yes, in the first two months, it was from their own budgets in agreement, but now we're on the inside with our savings. And again, I'm saying that your budget, look at that, was zero on this. You put it in place before the election, you made it happy, and in the next budget you have already proposed a zero with a message: New Minister, find the funds where you want them. I found them, my colleague. I would also like to say that the total budget savings of CZK 4.1 billion, which are there, can, of course, also be offset by additional expenditure, such as CZK 300 million for the Presidency of the European Union. And when the former Prime Minister today asked Mr Babiš today: what will you need the money for? I'll tell you. To the safety of those guests who arrive in the Czech Republic, to be able to pay for the overtime and the enormous workload that awaits them within the Presidency. That's what we put the money there for, they're there. And, of course, if the budget develops well during the year, there may still be some additional revenue for the Ministry of the Interior. But once again, the volume of finance for the interior is not lower than last year, which is an important indicator. We have added to the Presidency, the salaries of police and firefighters have increased, no jobs for police or firefighters have been cut off and important investments, such as continuing construction of firefighter station in Prague Holešovice, police complex in Prague-Zbraslav, construction of hangar of air service in Prague, construction of IZS complex in Brno and Jihlava, integrated exit center in Kopřivnice or, for example, the construction of central firefighter's armory in Nový Jičín and others, the investments there are. But do you know what investments we left behind? We left the investments that are project-ready. And I completely agree with the Minister of Finance's view: why would we put in investments that we will be cutting at the end of the year, saying that it simply did not happen? So our opinion was: put in such investments that we will be able to realize. Of course, Madam Vice-President, I have also talked about this budget with the head of police and the head of police first understands the state budget situation, and secondly, you will be surprised, they are satisfied with the budget, as it is designed, in the finals. They have food, their salaries have grown, their funds have not decreased since last year, and we have also added security within the Presidency, which I think you have forgotten a little bit. [[17,00 hours]] By the way, the amount of money for volunteer firefighters that were also mentioned is CZK 310 million. And the volume is the same as it was last year. And the agreement that the used and possibly restored technique of professional firefighters will be passed on to voluntary firefighters, of course, still continues and continues. I dare say that the budget that we were able to draft for the Homeland, even in that austerity year, is very good. I have said a lot of indicators that police, firefighters or other components are not at risk, and at the same time we have been able to save, i.e. 6% of traffic. Six percent of traffic isn't low, you won't find 600 million on the street. And I'm sure we'll live up to that budget. At the same time, I would like to ask you, my colleague, please leave some notes on some cases. I've heard of it, but I don't read the group press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u91	I do not want to correct you very much, but through the President. [[Minister Austrian off microphone: Through you.]] Thank you. I would take the liberty of giving priority rights, and I would ask my colleague Věrka Kovářová to fill in for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u92	So he will now speak with the Vice-President's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u93	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must allow myself to respond to the appearance of Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. If you listened well to me, Minister, in your office, but you might have just run, I commended you here for the 6 percent of the expenses to ensure that the Ministry of Interior's tasks were carried out. I commended you very much for this, and I said that I fully agree with it, and I think that's the right way to go. And I thank Mr. Bernard, my colleague, for confirming that. So you could have been on your way. But I can't be happy with your answer, and I'm so glad that you've already admitted that the food service is paying off your own money today, but you still haven't answered my stabilization allowance. I still don't know. Looks like the cops aren't gonna get him. I know you're arguing that the police are in agreement with that at the moment. So Mr. Švejdar is in charge of the police at this time, which will end on March 31st, and of course, it is very difficult to escalate the budget. But when I see that you took $1.6 billion from the police and you took a billion from the firefighters, and you took it from those who helped most in the pandemic, and you tell me that within the firefighters, you're only going to make investments that are prepared, Minister, and I'm going to bring you so many investment events from the mayors who need to fix their firefighters who need new tank car syringes, that it won't be enough for you to have a few billion. So please don't say that, it's not true, because the mayors have the projects ready. And really, if you cut $200 million on that grant program, I don't know, but I can see that the billion is being cut off, and if you're telling me about the food, I'm not going to say I wasn't in the last government, but I can only say that Mr. Hamáček was the Home Secretary. As I have information, I'm sure the Bureau has been handing you over, communicating, so I'm sure that's why you're talking about whether or not he put food in the budget. But I think that cops and firefighters, and I'm stressing it again, are the ones who helped and helped in the pandemic, and they are the ones who, in my opinion, should not touch the budget at all. And you know that they're not occupied because the cops aren't. That's why the recruitment contributions are. And I'm very worried about this, and I'm reading it in the budget because there's employee salaries - 700 million plus mandatory insurance, that's a billion, so here I see those places. [[He's holding the material in his hand.]] But of course you're going to say that it isn't, and I'm going to find out the truth afterwards, because in your own way you're saying, "I'm not going to cut people off, I'm not going to cut investment - and you're cutting people off, and you're going to cut investment, and you're going to cut those who helped most, and that's police officers and firemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u94	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, then Minister Vít Rakušan, came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u95	Thank you for the floor. Fire department, Fire Department has increased the number of tables by 300, he's found firemen and they've got the money. After eight years of your government, whether it was stronger in the early years in the second parliamentary period of the ANO movement and in the first social democracy, there are 3,000 vacant police posts, you can hardly blame the government that joined on 17 December last year, or you can, but it does not make any sense. And I am returning to the criticism of Mr Andrej Babiš, who criticized the management of cities and municipalities, even though I think there is nothing after the Chamber of Deputies or a member of the Government, we are guaranteed the right to self-government from the Constitution, and he said how many hundreds of billions they have there, that they do not know what to do with it, and at the same time you say how those cities and municipalities are waiting for the money of the state budget. So please get this straight in the YES movement. Either they have enough money, or they don't have enough money. He can't pay both. I do not know what is true, whether the speeches of your President, Mr Andrej Babiš, who says: They do not know what to do with the money, they have 330 billion there, they do not invest at all. Brno goes, but Prague doesn't go." But we don't only have two major cities. Or what you said, Madam Vice-President, is true through you that the cities and municipalities have little money. He can't pay both together. If you're arguing that A and B are paying, which are mutually exclusive, then don't be mad at me, you can't really respond to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u96	Thank you. I've turned on late time, but you can perform with priority rights, of course. At the moment, the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, reports with priority rights. Of course, it's awkward that it just came out during the meeting. Sorry about that. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u97	Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, I will already stick to this kind of funny instrument, if I address you directly through you, I am very sorry. [[Fun in the hall.]] Just when I was really in the hallway and I heard your challenge, with a nice ironic voice to come into the hall, I really didn't hear the compliment. Thank you so much for repeating it to me, I didn't even expect it. Again, one more time. It sounds from your mouth "save for policemen, firefighters." I really don't. If we're talking about firefighters, the one billion that went down, that was the one billion that you added to the new budget, I think it was Minister Schillerová after the meeting with Mr. General of the Fire Rescue Corps, but that was the money that really went beyond that originally planned budget for the Fire Rescue Corps. That was money beyond that. And we are, of course, at some point in time when we are saving money, that is, the funds that have been put beyond, and now I stress, the claims of the Fire Rescue Corps originally formulated in the budget negotiations are not really there. But otherwise, everything was left for the firefighters. And firefighters can continue to invest, and we don't disturb firefighters' jobs, we're glad they've got tables filled for the first time in 30 years. We're not planning anything like that. And not even the police seats you're talking about, we didn't cross any off. There's no such thing. The fact that they are long-term unfulfilled is another problem. Even under your government, it hasn't gone much further, it's not a very simple matter, but the cops still have places there. We didn't cross anything off. And I'm sure the former secretary of finance knows that she'd be just an operation, anyway, because these desk jobs don't cost us a penny. As long as they're not occupied, we're not releasing funds at this point. So, of course, we're waiting to see what new policy the police will come up with, how they define the number of jobs they need, but we haven't disturbed any. I refuse to think we'd be saving up for cops and firefighters. Their salaries will obviously and conclusively increase this year. The stabilization supplement is currently, and this is the same as it was in your government, paid at five regional headquarters of CZK 2,500 to CZK 5,000 a month. About 20 percent of police officers take it in those places where there are the largest bases and it is necessary to stabilize the congregations so as not to endanger the safety of the population in our Republic. At the moment, policemen are taking him up to the eighth grade, not the directors, not the deputy, not the union leaders. They are indeed the policemen we need in that day-to-day street service, and that, Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, does not change at all this year either. [[He's turning to the chair's seat.]] Oh, there's Vice-President Kovářová. And I'm already, I think, our most important thing said. I may not be able to fully respond to you, perhaps one more factual note, but we will certainly discuss this very closely with the Security Committee when we discuss the chapters of the budget. But I have, I hope, already, through Madam President, answered your question about the stabilization supplement. It continues to be paid, nothing changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u98	Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mrs Schillerová will speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u99	Thank you for the floor. Last reaction. The stabilization allowance should be in all the departments, I'm sure we'll get the feedback, I'm sure I'll come to the Security Committee, I'm sure I'll come to the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, because the budget is obviously doubling. I didn't say firefighters were going to be released. I didn't say that here. I said the billion will be taken away from the fire department. Firefighters are long-term underfunded in their technology, and we need that technique, so I don't think this is a good way to go. And that voluntary firefighter grant program, $200 million, I'm sure I'll be putting in a changeling, and I think these funds should go back. And about that Presidency. Well, you're not the only one with the Presidency, and so are some other ministries where the funds have been raised. But I think that's enough at the moment. And the last reaction is to Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura about the budgetary determination of taxes. I'm guessing you weren't here yesterday, Minister. What happened was that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who says that the former government keeps saying: "We are the sixth least indebted country. And do you know why we're the sixth least indebted country? Well, because they manage cities, municipalities and regions so well. Which is true, yes, they do well, and I think they do well responsibly, too, but the other side is that cities, municipalities and regions have never had so much money within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. You know, and I can bring you the chart they received in 2013 under your government and what percentage it went to, 19,91 percent, and today it's 25.48. So that's why it's a reaction. But I don't think that even though cities, municipalities and regions have so much money saved up, they should lose their grant program to volunteer firefighters, tank car syringes, and repair armory. I think the subsidy program should stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u100	Thank you for the show. Now, the factual point made by President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u101	I don't want it - the Home Secretary isn't here anymore - to stretch. A little bit of everybody here was talking about something else. The stabilisation contribution is certainly important, but my honourable colleague, Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, was referring to a slightly different matter that we talked about. When the armed forces pay 700 crowns, I noticed that it was possible for the government to decide that it was going on a tariff, so there are so-called claim excess files in the armed forces, which must be part of it. But since the discussion was up to date at the time you talked about saving 4.7 billion, you're now saying that it's 9 billion, so I guess you've got it figured out in the package, so I think my colleague Vice-President Mračková was talking about it, if that's what you're counting on. But it's got to be counted on because they're entitled to it, and every time we just put some money on the tariff, it didn't mean it was over. More money had to be given to the armed forces because it is so-called - and it is not a stabilisation contribution, it is not granted to all; it is not granted only there, mostly in Prague or in those places where it is difficult to collect - but it is so-called claim over-the-counter, probably here specialists from our member club would know what it is. So just to clarify, everyone here was talking and going in a slightly different direction. Well, the billion, the minister is no longer here, so the debate is pointless now, but of course I'm sorry about the billion for the fire department, because I'm sure they need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u102	Thank you. At this point, the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, is registered with a factual remark. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u103	Two short reactions. That, of course, is there in the draft budget, what the President of the ANO Group was talking about a while ago. That's there, so it's a mandatorial expense, there's nothing we can do about it, so you don't have to ask us if we've cut the mandatorial expenses. Well, we didn't, it's just there, it's automatically coming from the 700 crowns, and that's what it's calculated for. This applies to all armed forces, not only police officers and firefighters, but also to soldiers. So it's in the budget, you don't have to worry. And the budgetary determination of taxes. It is true, but let us remember what a tough fight it was and how opposition had to push the government back then. It was a Senate proposal where the opposition had a majority to compensate so that the compensation bonus would go only to the state, not to the municipalities and the city, so that when we cut taxes, it would go beyond the state, so that it wouldn't go beyond the cities and beyond, and it was us who pushed you to do so. Yes, we wouldn't have voted without you. So please don't take the credit for yourself. You wouldn't have voted without us, and so would we without you. And it was our proposals and our enormous pressure and the enormous pressure of the senators, which, of course, also arose from our colleagues from the municipal and regional levels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u104	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. At this point, I will ask that Mr Vít Vomáčka come up with another point of fact. And before I give him my word, I would take the liberty of - no, no, no - reading an apology, and Karel Rais apologizes tonight between 20.30 and midnight for family reasons. [[towards the diaper]] So, Mr. Ambassador... [[A member of the saucer off the microphone: I prefer it.]] You prefer the Minister. But the real one takes precedence over the priority right. Okay. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. That's right, Minister. Yes, you pushed us to do it then, the Senate pushed us, the increase in the RUD was a condition that the tax reductions that we voted together would go through, the abolition of the super-gross wage and the tax reductions. The question is whether it was wise whether it was wise to destabilize the state budget in this area, too, at the expense of ammunition, which today is in a huge surplus, and I can still hear from different sides here, but I was already above that, because of good management. It's not. Somewhere, somewhere. If they invested the money, invested to the maximum possible extent, which is going somewhere, Curiously in small towns and villages more than here in Prague, it would make sense. But there's a question, that's the optics that we talked to on the budget committee, that the surpluses of health insurance companies that go to people's health, so it bothers you why they should be there, and the surpluses in ammunition don't matter. That's kind of like my colleague Patrik Nacher says, double standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u106	Thank you. Another with priority right Mr. Vít Omáčka. [[Sauce]] Come on, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u107	Madam President, Madam Government, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I think there are a number of words that fall completely, a little outside the scope of today's debate. I would like to thank our firefighters from this place very much, there has also been a word about them, and the construction and what the President has just mentioned here that she would like to protect the firefighters, I certainly would, too, but the development of firefighters, which our volunteer firefighters have thanks to the regions and municipalities, is rarely seen. [[17.20 hours]] And if we're talking about the RUD, the budgetary determination of taxes that has changed, yes, it was a big fight, but besides that, it certainly belongs to the word that municipalities are very responsible for the management and not taking populist steps and doing only what they have to do. And if the state often transmits a number of its administration to them, so it also costs money and that's not what they're talking about. So let's talk about the whole context. There are sayings that state debt is falling. Well, I don't know if two years from 1,700 billion has dropped to 2.5 trillion. You're converting it to gross domestic product, I'm converting it to citizens. And I'm sure you remember, and I don't want to be confrontational, there was also a bill coming home at one election campaign, and there was CZK 120,000 for one citizen back then x years ago. So at 2.5 trillion and about 10 million citizens, let's figure out what the debt per citizen is. I think that's relevant information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. That was the last point of fact. I don't have anyone registered with priority rights, so we're finally getting into a debate, where the first one is Patrik Nacher, who did, but I'm still saying he's absent. At this point, Martin Kolovratník, who has disappeared to me, I don't know what the mystery is, but I know he's been listed there. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u109	I've been so excited since nine o'clock, and I'll be gone at 5:21. Well, thank you for the floor, good evening, colleagues, colleagues. I'm gonna get off, and now it's coming down to me in the general debate as the first one. Logically, I'm going to go to the resort that I'm dedicated to, which is my domain, that is, to the transport department. It is pointless to repeat, say, the general evaluations, the general opinions that my previous speakers have already said, so let the chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš, our president, Patrik Nacher, who gave the opinion of our club. But I look forward to transport, and I believe that Zbyněk Stanjura, as Minister of Finance, is looking forward to it as well, but the former Minister of Transport, and I believe that those cuts, which also involved the Transport Department, must have been very difficult for him, because he knows the resort well. But now, to be more serious and not to belittle a serious subject, we, when we were comparing the individual departments, really individual ministries, our internal table in such a color comparison, so unfortunately down in the biggest red color, the biggest minus, of all resorts, the one that has the biggest minus, is the right one. It's almost 9.1 billion. And I think that the amount is large and that, Minister, ministers, that is not a good cut. I'll try, I'll be brief, explain why I don't think it's good, and I'll try to make a suggestion, or update a proposal that I'll come up with at second reading. Like I said, it's almost 9.1 billion. I'll start with a positive one to be correct. What I think is right and right, and I recognise that it is in line with some philosophy, with the rhetoric that you had both during the pre-election period and after the elections, are cuts to normal traffic. Wages, social insurance, related FKSP and so on. I see this as a symbolism that you, Minister Stanjur, have also spoken about, that you are also cutting your resort, doing so to the right. But it's 55.2 million, out of a total of 55.2 million versus 9.1 billion. Admit it, it's disproportionate, it's very little. And when I looked at the election announcements, when I spoke to some of you in various TV debates, and I asked in the autumn, November, December, where you would take the 180 billion, I often heard the answer: We will dust off our amendments from last year. Last year. But let's face it, it hasn't been said anywhere that the Department of Transport will get $9.1 billion less. That surprises me, and I think it's just too much. I think it's too much in relation to the regions, let's say politically in your relationship to the regions that you know in previous governments there were always some budgets, some funds available to them, that were 2, 3, 4 billion on those roads of the second class. It is also in your commitment, in the government's programming statement that it will be 6 billion, and to be correct, we talked to Minister Kupka about it, that it has been calculated since 2023, not since this year's. But still, you get the budget as a whole, and now we're talking not only about the Department of Transport, but exactly about SFDI, so you're seriously ligating it. And I think the president here today used a sentence, if the projects aren't ready, they're not in the magazine, well, from what I can tell, as I remember the traffic, they're ready. There's a lot of them. So I'm going to do a little bit of detail, and I've divided it into three items, and I've talked about the salary of 55.2 million, all right. That's the thing I support and understand. It's an attempt at budget moderation, some kind of investigation, I don't have a word to say, and I have a positive view of this. The second item is already higher, it is the 1.6 billion on the other expenditure associated with the state's transport policy. And I'm going to ask Minister Kupka for an answer. So my question is, how do you work with the discounts, or how do you budget it? Because you've reduced them from 75 percent to 50, we don't agree with that. We think the reduction is too big. But I deliver B, I respect that. It's a political decision, it's your opinion. You're gonna take some bill for him to the voters, and that's what you've decided. OK, you have every right. But now that I look at it from the perspective of the budget, I've seen some rhetoric in the media that it's already been cut off in the original proposal by Alena Schillerová and Karel Havlíček. But as far as I know, the original proposal, when it was created in the middle of last year, logically counted on the covid time or the state known then. That's why it's been calculated somehow. But what I want to ask, and I can be wrong, if 1.6 billion is taken now, there will be some 4.4 billion left in that item overall, other expenditures related to the state's transport policy. And it seems to me that only about 1 billion would be allocated to those discounts. I may be wrong, and here I am asking for the Minister's comment: with 50 per cent in short, what is your estimate or prediction that these discounts this year will be due from April, if I have the correct information, so what total expenditure will be? But hurry up now. The third, which I consider to be much more fundamental and more important, is SFDI, a subsidy for the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So it's going to be negative 7.5 billion. I will make a footnote when the governments of the ANO movement took over the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in 2013, so the total budget, calculated by national resources, European and all others, was less than 89 billion. Last year we ended up with a sum of 127.5. I don't want to downplay it right now, and I don't want to be ironic that it's some kind of half-full vision or half-empty glass. Both ministers can answer me, and they will actually be right that in the end your proposal is also 127.5 billion, so you are not reducing that you have kept the total amount. Well, I have to say a different look. In the original proposal from last autumn there was an increase, there was an increase of 130 billion planned, and again we do not have the SFDI itself here yet, so maybe I should ask you correctly too, Minister, about how you put it together, if I see now 130 reductions against the original proposal to 127, but the total reduction is 7.5 billion, so it seems to me that SFDI will have to draw up the bills, the outstanding amounts it has, the way it works and goes from last year. So it's going to be zero with all the means that it normally has, converts and uses, for example, the twos, the threes, or the continuous increase over the course of the calendar year. And when I remind you that we need an unresolved problem between the Czech Railways and the Railways Administration of several billion just for land transfers, I can already see that we can't do it, that we can't do it. [[17.30 hours]] Very seriously, with very great concern, I perceive the consequences for the Railway Administration for Repair, Maintenance and Modernization. It is nice and correct, and again I will be correct that the absolute amount of investment remains that it will not dramatically fall, but repair, maintenance and modernization are not just new railings or some new facades. These are the so-called actions to ensure the network's operational capacity, to maintain the operation and quality of the network, the densest, densest in Europe, the Railway Administration networks. And from the information at our disposal again, some of the events that were threatened, not the investment, but the modernization, the correction, so from the footnotes, let's say, imaginarily above the line after the Minister's visit to Slovakia, the modernization of Lanžhot-Kúta. Logically, it's the thing I can and will appreciate again. It's in relation to the connection to Slovakia. There was a sequel to Negrelli's Negrelli, i.e. Prague-Bubny - The fairground, part of the track, which will then go to the airport and to Kladno. But the Railway Administration still lacks money for at least seven events. And while I was going over the list, I can imagine, and perhaps the locals will forgive me, the Podkrušnohorská magistral u Chomutov - barrier-free access to platforms in Cologne, albeit the minister from Cologne, his colleague, I apologize, his coalition colleague originally from Cologne, was also angry. I can imagine. But what's more serious. ETCS Praha-Uhříněves - Prague Main Railway Station, ETCS Brno-Heršpice stop, another ETCS from Milovice to Prague, i.e. three events in a key project to increase railway security, i.e. ETCS. Next let's say delay or displacement in time Kladno - Kladno-Ostrovec. This is actually the endgame, the second part of the Prague - Kladno connection for 4 billion. And let me remind you, this event was already open on February 7th. It still takes, as we know everywhere, a month to evaluate candidates' qualifications, any comments and so on, but it could be built in the spring. And the same, maybe it is a symbol of political reconstruction of the expedition building in Teplice in Bohemia for some 280 million crowns. Even this event is competitive, it was 236, and it could take place, but at this point, there are no means for it. And the last thing I'm gonna say is why I'm worried about the rail infrastructure. We're really getting into trouble. The railway network, despite the investments I was talking about or through budgets in previous years, is gradually modernised, but still underfunded. And by common sense, if we are to save more and more now, if we need a short-term or short-term good result in the budget, that you have now saved big money, the repairs will be less - I will point out that the individual regional directorates are somewhere in the middle and under half of the original budgets for these types of events - so I remind you, here we are putting up a problem for the future. In the future, the repairs will be much more expensive, and it will cost us much more. We've tried to test the cyclic maintenance projects and so on, which have proven this, but I don't want to hold up here on Friday night at this time. So, at the end of my speech, I'm glad that the overall ones, that I'm correct, that the Minister has kept and maintained the overall large investments, I've already put it in the media, the high-speed-track stuff that follows up on our work that we've given, the continuation of those major highway moves like D35, I appreciate that, and I'm happy to say it in public, and I believe that we're going to find a consensus here, but I just see that minus 7.5 billion in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure item as a bad and bad decision. I am sure to advise, as I said, that I will try to find an amendment and help the Minister to find, perhaps, a less priority item, but perhaps a compromise amount to get back to the SFDI Fund. Finally, Minister, if I may ask you, first of all, to comment on the discounts on how they are budgeted, and also on your idea of what I say, not investment, but modernization and maintenance work on the Railway Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u110	Thank you, too. I have here now an updated factual comment from the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, and the Minister of Transport is reporting with priority rights. Well, I just wanted to see if the Minister wanted to take precedence. Okay, so the Minister of Finance made a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u111	I just have a general remark. I'm sure the Minister of Transport will respond to these specific questions. I don't want to deprive anyone of the right to perform, but I think it's more of a second reading. But I really don't want to take it away from anyone. Because if we start discussing individual chapters now, it doesn't bother me, but I think we're going to blow up a little dust for second reading, because I assume there will be proposals for strengthening, defending money justified in detail, and I assume that there will be a very detailed debate on the committees, in this case on the Economic Committee, on this proposal. But I really don't want to - and I'm sure the Minister of Transport will answer those substantive questions, so rather, my appeal to the other speakers who have signed up: if we were to deal with the basic parameters of the budget, that would be fine. If not, I fully respect it, I do not question it, but certainly in committees and at second reading we will have time to look at the individual items in more detail. But my colleagues from the government are certainly ready to respond to a specific chapter today. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u112	Thank you, too. Thank you for keeping time. Now, with priority rights, the Minister of Transport has applied, if she prefers, well, the chairwoman of Mrs Alena Schillerová's House of Deputies. [[yes]] Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u113	I'm just in a quick response to the Minister of Finance. Yes, it's part of the second reading. And we certainly don't want to burden the debate here at first reading by discussing chapters. But it is precisely so that our shadow government or shadow ministers, who are primarily studying it, are able to process the amendments honestly and in their conscience, that some things need to be clarified. This means, in part, it is a criticism of those items that are missing there and which we think are not to be missed there, and in part it is an interaction with the minister concerned to explain it, and that they then respond to it, if necessary, in those amendments. So just because my colleagues turn to specific chapters or specific ministers who have specific chapters under them, because it is important for us and we need to clarify these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport, with priority right now. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to vote for an unconfrontational tone, although it is intended to say to me that in some respects the colleague missed the opportunity to remain silent. When we look at the discounts, the previous government's decision - 75 percent discount. How much did the previous government prepare in the original draft budget with the dramatic deficit for the discount money? Two and a half billion crowns. That's reality. It was clear, and it was, after all, an obligation with which we had introduced all the voters in advance, that we had to change the discounts, that the resemblance approved by the previous government was disproportionate, too generous in terms of comparison with other neighbouring countries, which are sufficiently socially sensitive and are trying to promote public transport. At the same time, we were looking for solutions to fulfil one of our important priority promises, namely to promote public transport. And the proposal that we have come up with, with which we are counting on the budget, is a reduction of 50 per cent, which corresponds, by the way, to many similar urban discount models in the Czech Republic, to the custom of many European states, and it is in any case much more measured and, at the same time, to the appropriate aspect of public transport support and measures that simply retain their important social dimension. It's all there. But it lacks the wasteful policy of the previous government. And we said yes, it is important for us to go along the path of reasonable savings and at the same time maintain appropriate investment. And that's what's really happening in the program. If you are asking how exactly it is with the savings in the area of discounts, so as to be clear, at a time when the previous government was shaping the draft budget, at that time the state last year and with the burden of the epidemic issued more than CZK 3.2 billion on discounts. The total expenditure for last year was CZK 3.8 billion. It can therefore be expected that if the epidemiological situation changes this year, it will be at least 4 billion, while maintaining 75 percent, but much more, because it is possible to expect, and so the economical finance minister should look when preparing the budget, that we will return to the 2019 number, when there was a lot riding, and then the state paid CZK 5.8 billion. [[17.40 hours]] So we, with the change that we are coming up with, are actually assuming more frequent use of public transport, smaller restrictive measures because of the epidemic, that we would get to CZK 4 billion after the change in the discount. That's why we're designing the savings naturally to the extent of CZK 1.8 billion. Where we can see. And I really put it with all seriousness, even with the response of carriers, but also groups that defend people's interests, perhaps in a socially difficult situation, that this is an acceptable step and that this is a step that brings with it the necessary aspect of the social and aspect of the promotion of public transport. Moreover, what we have done, and we consider it very right, even after Olga Richterová's initiative, is to get us to focus our attention directly on those who need it most. And from that previous discount system, a group of disabled persons fell out in the third degree of invalidity. That is why we are putting together a concept which, we hope strongly already in the middle of the year, could open a 50% discount to this group, and we see this shift of addressability as another important priority for the changes that we come up with in the area of traffic discounts. The second question about the investments: The same thing I was sending at the beginning, well, if only it were so that in the original draft budget with all these things counted that there was a reconstruction of the railway station building in Teplice, that there was a modernization of the line Lanžhot-Kouty, that there were a number of other prepared things. However, the truth is, it wasn't. It just wasn't. And at the moment when the task was really to maintain the level of investment before us, we had to build on the original proposal, not on a proposal that may have been in someone's head, but not on paper. So it wasn't clear, as a result, how much money would be needed for everything that was promised or what was drawn with a light hand. And our approach really was responsible for not touching anything that we could read in that budget as an investment. And yes, there is now a task in front of us where it is absolutely necessary, such as the case of the modernization of the railway line Lanžhot-Kúta, where the Slovak side will increase the level of the bridge, and if we didn't connect our investment with it, then the trains would jump a little bit, about half a meter. No one can afford that. But once again, this investment in the original draft budget with a dramatic deficit of over CZK 370 billion was not. And now we're going to try as hard as we can to solve cases similar to that modernization of the track in Slovakia somehow. And it's a thing that the government's just gonna have to deal with, and there's a lot of that in front of us. But just so we're clear, it's really honest with the investments. That is why I say with all seriousness and with the fulfillment of the government's important promise that we will not reduce investment and reduce it by a crown. And if you, by your means, Madam President, or Minister Karel Havlíček, criticize the fact that there is no money for these planned investments, please also direct the criticism to yourself. Last remark on how we managed to cope with the necessary savings in the area of routine maintenance and repairs on roads and railroads. I'm not pretending it's really gonna be a tough year. It would be unfair to say that it's actually, like, an easy thing to handle, that we're gonna get through that year, and we're gonna move on. However, if the entire resort was really going to bring in some kind of deficit reduction solution, that is exactly the same reasoning that households are doing with all their responsibilities when they say what they can afford in their thoughts to have to move one year. And I assure you that we are aware that even maintenance is supposed to have its cyclic program so that there is no slump, which we will then pay a larger amount. We're aware of that, and this is just gonna be the thing that we're gonna have to deal with, and for the next few years, we're gonna have to find more money back there. For the record. I say with full seriousness that the budget of the transport department has fulfilled everything that the government programme assumes: maintaining the investment pace, not reducing a single koruna for investment, saving where we have indicated it, while maintaining the promotion of public transport, maintaining a socially sensitive system, which, moreover, is much closer to what works in other European countries. To do so, the interest in saving money for the future and improving the quality of people's lives by making it more digital. Those are the basic points that we've brought into the austerity budget, and I dare say that this is a proposal that has dealt with a whole range of serious problems, and that what really and painful savings represent in the area of maintenance, we're just gonna have to handle. There are no simple recipes, we cannot conjure up additional billions and, as far as possible, it is a really reasonable option to not create a problem for the future while ensuring the necessary savings. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u116	Thank you, too, Minister. We're still in the debate. I am now not seeing any factual comment, so it is now Mr Ivo Vondrák's turn. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u117	Thank you. Good evening. I see the atmosphere is so easy to sleep, so I'm gonna let myself cheer it up a little bit. We had the President here, and I remember, at the time when I joined as the governor, he came to the edge and spoke to the representatives and had an anecdote at the beginning: When the Prime Minister resigns, he gives the new Prime Minister three letters - I apologize to those who know - and he says to him: When the first crisis comes, open the first letter when the second crisis comes, so the second letter and finally in the third crisis the third letter. I don't want to say power to the new Prime Minister, but the new governments, and after a while, they come to the first crisis, they open the letter, and it says "put everything on the previous government." That's what's going to happen, the crisis will calm down, it's going on. After a while, the crisis is coming again, so the Prime Minister opens the second letter and it says "you have to replace at least half the government." So the Prime Minister trades half the government, the crisis is over, everything lives on. And then comes the third crisis. And the Prime Minister opens the letter and it says "write three letters." And I have a little feeling, don't be mad at me, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that you just opened the first letter too soon. I don't think it's all because of the previous governments here, and I'm going to talk about a chapter that I think was extremely successful. The success was education, his budget, the promotion of science and research, all of which changed dramatically for the better. I think a teacher's average salary of CZK 48,440 is something no one expected. And I think that universities can also be satisfied, supporting science and research, scientific infrastructure. All of this was backed up like never in the past. And I know what I'm talking about, because as a university rector, I had to go through the summers of 2010 to 2012, when I had to save 300 million in the funds to run the university, and my first assignment was when I joined the rector, that I got 150 contracts on the table, and out of those 150 contracts I had to cancel half of it. And I don't wish this on anyone. It's nothing pleasant, and every person who's a little responsible will realize what it means to cancel someone's job, his contract, and basically put him under a lot of pressure. [[17.50 hours]] So if we look at this chapter in education, I have to say, I understand that it was an effort to save, which is kind of a euphemism to cut. I am glad that the current rectors and school directors do not have to deal with what I had to deal with, because the year-on-year increase is still 9.9 billion, even though it is 5.1 billion less than our original proposal that we wanted to put into education. At a slightly shorter end, universities and science and research are dragging the money internally, even though the rectifiers don't recognize it as having less money for educational activities or for science and research, which, if I were the rector, I would accept. [[unintelligible]] There's one problem: that means minus 1 billion in investment. And it would be good to know when they're gonna get that billion in investment. And it would be good if it was as soon as possible. So from this point of view, I think the situation is relatively stable, although it's not what we want it to be, and it certainly has a negative, that it's hindering development. We know, and we've heard it before, because it's the usual phrase that it's a pro-growth sector, we should support it, but it never happens that much. At least like this. But what I see is a much bigger problem, so it is regional education. Last year's opposition, the current coalition wanted to adopt the law that teachers will have 130 percent average wages in the Czech Republic. When I was commenting, I said I didn't think it had to be about the law, that it was just about goodwill. If we agree that teachers will be 130 percent, then we don't have to reinstate a new law, a new mandatorial expense, and we could have solved it. The truth is that by reducing the budget by 4.4 billion, our principle will not be respected. You can't keep it. We wanted, by the way, all the teaching staff, now it's just about teachers, but still. The 130 percent will basically be very complicated to keep. And I'm offering, and now I don't know if Mr. Gazdík is here, so Minister Stanjur has a bottle of good Scotch whiskey Laphroaig that you won't get that 130 percent at the end of the year. [[The reaction from the diaper in the right side of the hall.]] Okay, great, then we can drink it together somewhere in the corner of this Chamber of Deputies' room. I see this as a symbolic step towards saying: it is not certain, it can happen that education can pull the shorter end again. I'm sure that would be a shame, and I wouldn't want that to happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u118	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I'll ask Mr. Karel Rais to come to the speaker's desk. And before they do, I'll read the apologies. He apologizes from today between 19 a.m. to 23.45 a.m. Josef Kott, for family reasons. I also have an apology here for Mr Oldřich Černý from 17:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. She also apologizes to Renáta Zajíčková, today from 18.00 to 20 hours for work reasons. And the last apology is a Member of Helena Válková, also from today's meeting from 16.15 to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u119	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd follow up on my colleague Vondrák and what I said this morning. I had a chance to compare the contents of Chapter 333, which was created by the former government, with the contents of that chapter today with the budget presented to us by the current government. There, in terms of the form of the State Budget proposal, I lack the idea of the Ministry of Education's financial development in 2023 and 2024, which I think is the first time in that chapter, which, in a relatively long time, is not the Minister of Finance, does not present short-term and long-term prospects. Of course... there's no talk of that 9% inflation. I believe that if the government wants to copy the right-wing Rašín first-country financial policy, as the Minister of Industry has said here, the budget and, in particular, the content of the chapter should in some way respond to and reduce the office's excessive administration. And start discussing the usefulness of the Cermat-type ministerial institutions, which prepare for one whole republic activity throughout the year and then do, more or less regularly for several years they make mistakes in the activity and more or less stress out Czech parents and teachers who are responsible for the graduation process. Discussion of funds 130 percent. I'm not going to bet, but I'm convinced of it only because in Chapter 333 it's no longer 130 percent, but two. And here I could also respond to the debate that appeared earlier from the Minister, from Minister Gazdík. [[Prime Minister, your time.]] Unfortunately, I didn't make it all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u120	Thank you very much, too. That was the last point of fact. We're in a debate. Another person who is enrolled is the Member and Vice-President of the House of Karel Havlíček. I'm going to ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u121	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I will try to be very substantive, I will not go into full detail. Anyway, I'm gonna start with what I'm most concerned about, and that's the way I look at savings. I was really curious about the way the government handled the promise it made. And now I don't want to be prickly, 125 billion, and then we took it to be the 80 billion crowns. And you know that we said that it's in our opinion that it's unalienable if we don't do really serious damage. You said you could do it. And I'm very sorry that the finale that presented itself is not - and now I don't want to be completely detailed - the 80 billion, but it's not, it's not the savings, it's not the 77 billion. It's a good mix with numbers where we work well and with good tricks with concepts such as savings and resources. And that's two different things. Because I believe that we can agree that saving is that I'm not going to deliver money, in simple terms, the recipient who was expecting it, and now I'm not assessing whether we're assessing it positively or negatively, he's not going to get the money. But what happens here is that the resources are obviously going to go. And they're either going out of close earnings, or they're going out of savings that we've left behind or that's left behind. It's not a matter of ownership, it's just reality. And I'm gonna try to show a few numbers the problem that's there. Because I would take it if it came and said it wouldn't be 80 billion, we're going to reduce the deficit and we're going to be on the 280 billion, but for the 80 billion it won't be, it's going to be 40, 50 billion, so I'm going to estimate that it could happen, and we're going to replace the rest with some future income, but not with the savings. Or we could replace it with what's left over. And now a few of these examples. I'll take it logically from the industry department, but I'll touch the traffic a little bit. In the Czech Telecommunications Office industry, we know how it is, the 1.5 billion. But it's very typical of that. One and a half billion simply have to sail from the Ministry of Industry to the Czech Post, or it is a fee from the Czech Telecommunications Office. That way, to be exact, it's not from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The 1.5 billion is just a time frame when it will happen. It is a source or money that goes as a reimbursement of the costs of the services provided. Historically, it's given. There's only one thing to be expected for notification. [[18.00 hours]] The moment the notification is made, and it is estimated that it will be in April, so within 30 days, 1.5 billion must be paid off. There's even more danger that it might not be 1.5 billion, but we didn't put it in the budget for years to come, either, but I would have been in too much detail. In any case, we had a budget cover that 1.5 billion will have to be paid. And my simple polite question is, what is going to be the price of 1.5 billion here when the European Commission makes a month out of this amount and it has to pay? In my opinion, it is budget-free. And it's not a savings, because you know very well it won't be. Another typical example is renewable resources. I would take it, and it would be a real savings, Minister of Finance, if the law had decided that the 8 billion crowns had been made, but I say that to the Minister of Industry, but I don't see it here, the 8 billion crowns didn't really pay off those solarians. Yes, but then it's about changing the law. And if that's what we're gonna do, I'm gonna say right here that we're gonna support it. So please change the law, we're not paying off 8 billion crowns. But let's not pretend to draw from 27 billion 19 billion and not leave. The law says they have to leave. It's even in the government's order that they have to pay off the $27 billion. Yes, I understand one thing. It can be played on the fact that the price of power electricity was higher, so we can save something on OTE, maybe it'll be one, maybe two, maybe 2.5 billion that can be used for that. But what am I really saying? We're gonna have to pay those solarians anyway. We're just looking at the budget today that it's not going to be the 8 billion crowns. Anyway, it'll be close to the 8 billion crowns. And it's just a question of where we'll get the money from. But again, if you want to spare as you say, change the law, and we'll support it. Because there's an even worse thing going on here. If there is no money in the budget, then consumers and industry must pay for it. The Energy Regulatory Authority has made that very clear. I'm just quoting him, I think it's a week-old piece of information: Support for renewable energy sources is paid - quite rightly written - by consumers and from the state budget. We know that, that's the 46 billion - 27 of the state budget, the rest of the consumer or the company. If the funds - I quote further - did not cover the necessary part of the aid from the State budget and the State did not find other sources of funding, this could mean the need to increase the expenditure and, as a result, the contributions to renewable energy sources paid by the customers. And it clearly says here: The increase would affect mainly industrial enterprises. So it's not, Minister, any savings. It's just a good accounting trick where we actually show that we save something, but in the finals, we only pay it from other sources. It's another trick at the Department of Transport, but I'd say a better trick. While in the first two it's definitely something we pay, it hurts traffic a little less. In a completely simple way - and again, we still have to see it. There is no savings of CZK 9 billion, as shown. But I say that this is relatively good news, because of course we would not like the savings of 9 billion crowns. In the end, it turned out to be 3 billion crowns on the SFDI. We don't like that, and we can criticize it, but now there's no room. Finally, it's more like Mr. Martin Kolovratník's favorite. But the rest of it is an ad one, so it's a withdrawal of 1.5 billion, and the rest is nothing more than what's left of the SFDI, and that's that they used, I think, 2,2.5 billion crowns that were supposed to go for the land. So it's not saving. It's something there. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And now the answer to what Minister Kupka said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u122	Vice-President, I am very sorry to have to step in on this. I would like to ask all Members, if they want to deal with something, to deal with it in the lobby of the Chamber and not to disturb the speaker at the speaker's desk. Thank you for understanding. And again, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u123	It's okay. Minister Kupka actually said, well, you didn't have the budget covered entirely. Yes, you're right. In traffic, it's never gonna be able to catch anything at all 100%. And it's always expected when the budget is made that something will be investigated at the end of the year. That's just the way it always is in traffic. But what did you guys do? You downloaded it from 131 to 127 - round - and at the same time you used, in principle, right, nothing against the 5 billion crowns that remained there. What would we do? We would have kept 131, and we would have at our disposal the 5 billion crowns just for what you say that it would have to be budget-free. So we're playing a game about you having it on 127, I'll take SFDI. We would take 131 plus 5, so we're somewhere at 136, plus minus I'm saying it. And, of course, these in order or approximately 8 billion crowns, they play a very important role in this. So again, it's a trick, it doesn't save, but thank God it's a better trick, unlike the renewables, or I dare say cheating with the Czech Telecommunication Authority, because it's quite clear there. And you know very well that it has to be paid for in a month. Then there's a little trick, I'd say, but again, at least there's a little bit of show on it, and that's the Czech Republic. 411 million is being saved. And as I'm saying, it's a good trick, because 411 million isn't going to be saved, which is the good news, like traffic. And it's dealt with by a loan from the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and so on. Again, it's just that it's moving away and it's paying for something else. That's the whole point that bothers me. I respect the fact that the balance, the budget deficit, is lower, is at 280 billion. But what bothers me is that we're here to say how we've saved 77 billion. It wasn't spared. It's just paid for from something else. In short, and I will no longer prolong it, because it will actually be based on second reading, compensation to entrepreneurs. I may be reading it wrong, but I see $3 billion there. Finally, there should be CZK 5 billion in compensation, but it may be that it will be taken again from some other support that was previously planned. In any case, however, I must respond to what the Minister of Finance has said at the very beginning. You criticize us, and now I say it in your words, for not wanting to give anything to entrepreneurs, and I stand by it, if we didn't bang into tables, you threw them overboard completely, and you wouldn't pay entrepreneurs anything, but you finally gave under the dose of criticism of entrepreneurs and opposition, and here I have to commend the MIT, a reasonable amount of CZK 5 billion. Plus, these are programs that give heads and heels. It's programs that we've been preparing. The change has been modified. But thank God for that. You're criticizing us for not having the resources. I note that we have prepared a budget in a situation of great uncertainty. We didn't know what was going to happen, what was going to happen. The times were changing all the time. But in any case, we have worked with the budget reserve. The budgetary reserve would be determined primarily for these expenditures, which we have finally had to do several times in the past. We paid off businessmen, and now I take it in direct payments, I don't take indirect resources, 192 billion crowns in less than two years. And of course, none of that was in our budget. We had to work with the budget reserve first. In the second phase, we had to work with the fact that the budget changed during and so on. But what's important is, and that's what everyone cares about, not the numbers game, and when we said it, when it was there, when it wasn't there, is that we always got the money. And I don't want to talk unfairly about who the money was for, who it wasn't for. You all know very well how it was pushed to pay off, so that it would be quick to make it across the board, so that it would be as far as possible. And I could quote most opponents here. And I understood why it was meant to be. So the helicopter raids and the like aren't even on the spot to comment at the moment. It's for the businessmen. [[18.10 hours]] And the last thing I miss in the budget, and we would like to support it, because I understand that this is an extraordinary situation, is that there is nothing in the economic area to support entrepreneurs with energy. At least I'll take it from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That, in my opinion, is very wrong. As was the effort to throw entrepreneurs overboard as part of the support of covidová, so they were definitely useful within the framework of energy. And I believe that any reasonable person here would be prepared to support this. But the fact that entrepreneurs will support only improved interest on loans is not only very little, not enough, but I dare say that this is also a mockery in a time of energy crisis. And that's definitely where the amount was supposed to come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u124	Thank you, too. Your speech did not raise any factual point, so we are in the debate and the next person who is enrolled is Mr Julius Špičák. Ambassador, please come to the speaker's desk and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u125	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, unlike my previous speaker, I will not start with a joke because the Health Department, I would say, does not give an opportunity to do so. Many things have been mentioned, but I will start with one that has not been mentioned. Individual resorts, virtually all the resorts were cut in some way in terms of funding, but while other departments with many times higher budgets were cut in percentage order, so health services were cut in one quarter, which I think is really frustrating. What is the specific situation? In the current situation, the covide pandemic is stagnating, in hospitals there are still nearly 4,000 patients, of whom nearly 400 are ill at high cost. He's dying every day between 50 and 100 patients, which is basically a pure death, and one can say, in my opinion, to a large extent unnecessary, because if the vaccination was continued actively and the vaccination law was adopted over 65 years of age, the problem could be resolved to a large extent. This is related to other very negative parameters of our health care, or rather the health status of our population. We have a high incidence, essentially pandemic, not just covid, but also obesity, diabetes, a high incidence of cardiovascular diseases, oncological diseases, increasing dependence, psychiatric disorders, there is a lack of quality of life in old age and for the first time in years the probability of survival is reduced. They are virtually paralyzed by healthcare development processes, not continued with quality control, DRG Restart, non-activated arrival of foreign workers, reduced quality and availability of care outside large centers. I went to work, and I got the number of oncological performances from the General Health Insurance Corporation. In two years, that number, that decline is between 15 and 20 percent, and it's definitely not negligible. And where are they looking for savings? Paradoxically, they are sought in the field of pandemic and vaccination, where the reduction of these expenditures is directly huge, as it reaches 4.5 billion and 60 percent of the entire segment. It's an incredible reality, it's an incredible signal, because it basically suggests a resignation for vaccination. Another significant reduced item is investments in directly controlled facilities, which are institutes and hospitals directly controlled by the Ministry of the Interior, 770 million. The financing of sanitary stations is decreasing, which I consider absurd, because of course their main problem was the low salaries of employees, therefore it is low attractiveness, and it can be expected that with the onset of a new wave of pandemic, which can easily come in autumn, we will be back to the same problem, that is, the quality of tracking and quality organization quarantine. Another problem is the reduction in the funding of the State Health Institute, which I believe was to be revitalized on the contrary, because it is basically the only dedicated institution which is focused on analysis and which could play a role in the revitalization, as we have repeatedly discussed, of some sort of Kochův Center. There is also a reduction in the funding of special programs, which includes the organisation of screening, and this could result in a decrease in screening examinations and an increase in the number of diagnosed cancers in advanced condition. We have already mentioned repeatedly the lack of payment for state insured persons, which will reduce hospital revenues and hospitals' income indirectly will also reduce the increase of all items, all inputs. Just for the hospital I work in, for example, an increase in energy costs some 55 million per year. All of this will clearly lead to a decline in the real cost of health workers' income, and I fear that the availability and quality of care provided will also deteriorate. We're talking about quality and accessibility being great. Yeah, she's great for us sitting here. Try ordering for a banal examination, such as coloscopy, or standard performance, such as hip replacement, and you'll be surprised that the dates are many months to many years old. So from my point of view, the budget of the Ministry of Health, this department, is inadequate. The Ministry, the resort is inadequately underfunded and the consequences will be borne by all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u126	Thank you. Now I'm gonna load an apology. For reasons of work between 17.00 and 21.15, Mrs Věra Adámková apologises. Now with priority rights, Minister Válek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u127	Thank you, Madam President. I will allow myself to react because I do not want the atmosphere to be unnecessarily serious, and I think, as I promised, we will certainly work well with the Health Committee, with all the experts both from the opposition and from the coalition, and we will certainly move the health sector. If I go back to what he said here, through Madam President, Mr Vondrák about the letter, then if the letter from the Prime Minister of the previous government was probably in the first one, not that the previous government was responsible for everything, but that Kalousek was responsible for everything, and the second letter was probably not to replace the government, but to replace the ministers of health as quickly and as often as possible à two months. [[unintelligible]] And that's what happened. I welcome the gorgeous criticism of the outcome of the functioning of those changing health ministers at the Ministry, and what is the result of the deterioration in the availability of care over the four years and so on, as he summarized, through Madam President, Mr Špičák. But I don't think the situation is so bad, and on the contrary, I think that the previous government and Minister Vojtěch have done a number of good for health care. I wouldn't be such a critic. And I think that this is also reflected in the fact that a number of programmes have been launched, and I intend to continue this because I think that health should not be addressed politically, but should be addressed professionally. And I believe, and I believe, that, in cooperation with a number of Members headed by opposition Members, through Madam President, Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák and others, we will move that a little further. I don't think so, and I'm 100% sure that any changes in the budget would have an impact on health care salaries. This is not even technically possible, because the payment decree was approved, the increase in health care workers' salaries was 6%, and it is a good thing that the increase was 6%, because health professionals deserved this. In the same way, all the requirements arising from the payment order have been met and insurance companies guarantee that availability will be ensured as provided for in the payment decree. It is true, and here I completely agree, through Madam President, with the previous speaker, that unfortunately some investment projects have not been implemented so quickly that they can be implemented this year, and that is why it is unnecessary for us to hold the money and to leave the money, but all that is to be invested, everything that is invested will be planned. [[18.20 hours]] The first thing I did was gradually invite the director, or the investment project managers from individual hospitals, and I checked the project after the project, how far away it is. For the last time, to be specific, I am with the management of the South Moravian Region, respectively, with the management of the city of Brno and the University Hospital Brno, dealing with the completion of a parking house in the Children's Hospital, which is extremely important for the citizens of the South Moravian Region, because the Faculty Children's Hospital in Černé Polí is the only health facility in the region and this construction is extended for six long years without any movement. I am very pleased that they have assured me that both hospital management and city management will give me a project documentation proposal within 14 days and that the construction will be started very quickly, because I consider it absolutely crucial, absolutely crucial for parents of children who are desperately looking for parking, and now the situation will finally improve. It's about employees, too. And there are many such projects, I really went through all of them, from Ostrava, where I discussed with representatives of the Faculty Hospital Ostrava pages of the oncology center in Ostrava, parties building oncology, to the Karlovy Vary Region, which until today does not have an oncology centre, and I thank you very much to Professor Vorlíček and other colleagues who are involved in implementing the concept of the oncology centre in the Karlovy Vary Region. And again, I'm going to discuss this with all the representatives of the regions. And I don't care what political parties they're from, because as my previous speaker dropped here, medicine doesn't choose. Health care is either good or bad, available or unavailable. I'm sure our health care is of good quality. I am sure that it is available, that its quality will increase, availability too. And the budget, as it is approved, on the deterioration of quality, has absolutely no effect on the deterioration of availability, on the contrary, and I will give one particular example. You may recall that the previous government has repeatedly discussed this, and we talked about it at the Health Committee, that it is necessary to do grant projects on covid. Therefore, a grant competition for covid projects amounting to 156 million was launched. This money comes from the money of the Health Research Agency, and I think it is good that grant projects are for the long-term consequences of the covid, even if the question is whether these projects can be successfully completed. However, I will have a meeting with all the investigators, discussing not wasting money. What is wrong is that the promise that had not been fulfilled was not fulfilled, and unfortunately the budget of the Agency for Health Research was not in the budget and the agency did not receive a crown. That means, the result of this decision here that projects are supposed to be covid, would mean if I didn't intervene and give the agency an extra 150 million that he wouldn't be the only - the only - health research grant next year. The only one! I know this, I am 100% sure, through Madam President, that Mr Špičák knows this, and all our colleagues who sit here, whether they are opposition or coalition, and have anything to do with medical research. And I could go on like this. It's just reality. I guarantee that the budget, as set up, will not lead to a deterioration in health care, will not lead to a deterioration in the availability of health care, will not lead to any reduction in salaries, will not result in workers being discharged from hygiene and that the quality of hygiene would deteriorate. And I would like very much, and here I would like to thank Mr Špičák, by your means, Madam President, if we are to participate in the construction of the Kochův Institute, the reorganisation of the State Institute of Health and Hygiene Services, so that we are on the same level as Germany, France and other countries from which we can take an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u128	Another one entered into the debate, because the factual comment that was here, I noticed that it was cancelled, so Mr Aleš Juchelka reporting, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u129	Thank you very much. Madam President, I will be very brief not to really be here this week on the third night, there is absolutely no justification at all. So I'll take the world's flight, what's really going on with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. As my colleague Martin Kolovratník pointed out, the table, where the Ministry of Transport is in its budget, as well as the way in which the budget has been treated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is precisely this Ministry, which has an increase of 17.4 billion, but I fear that it is precisely at the time in which we are located, which is an energy, covid and inflationary crisis, that is very weak. For MPSV there are savings of CZK 4 billion, which is a reduction in operating expenditure and investment. There will also be some funding from the IROP or a national recovery plan. We see there restrictions on the programmes relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but I think that we will play our part, in particular, not only on committees, but also on second and third readings. What also follows from those tables that we received unfortunately only this afternoon with the whole I would say in detail breakdown of individual amounts, is that MPSV saved 440 seats in its Ministry, but together this is not related to the total table, when the number of civil servants increases to 6 600 or 6 610. For me, however, it is very important how this ministry reflects the needs of all citizens who need help, because none of us avoids the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, everyone comes into contact with it for life at least once, even as an old-age pensioner. So how will the budget presented help citizens? For old-age pensioners there is valorisation of course, which is legal, it is not any valorisation that would be beyond the 805 crowns that have been received since January by all old-age pensioners. It is a thing that simply and simply the government must do by law, and that is an increase of CZK 1 017, on average 8,8%, with the January inflation already at ten, the average should be between five and six percent in 2022. And with the fact that the seniors will still be taking discounts on fare and other things, for example, I think we should think about whether or not to do some more valorisation on top of the 1 017 crowns. In terms of social services, for example, those, if I was just looking at it, relate to the amount of about CZK 20,5 billion plus, of course, there are other things. The increase in the care allowance is calculated in the social services budget of CZK 2.5 billion, with a payment decree of approximately CZK 900 million. Here I would like to stop a little bit, we will probably also address this in the Committee on Social Policy, where, of course, the payment decree for residential services is in order, even during the last parliamentary term, proposed two amendments by Mr Pastuchová. But what surprised me personally is the increase in the payment decree in field services, because there, in the case of the care allowance, which the government, of course, missed together with the opposition's votes, we must admit, increased the contribution to care in III. and IV. It is precisely to breathe the payment decree in field services that, on the contrary, they will now take some money again, and thus handicapped people who are dependent on helping or caring help will simply be able to afford less hours of care. And here, of course, I would like to talk about this within the Committee on Social Policy, but that is what awaits us for the future. What I do not think is the logic within the budget, and I thank my colleague Hendrych very much, who pointed it out, is that in the context of the budget increase in Chapter 313, which is the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there is only CZK 3 billion in the housing allowance, which is, of course, still nonsense, when last year, according to the statistics of the labour authorities, CZK 7 billion in the housing allowance, which is, and says the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, only 25 percent of those entitled to the housing allowance were used up. And if, as the government says, it would help everyone in terms of energy poverty directly and purposefully and de facto, 100 per cent of all eligible people would have to allocate precisely to the housing contribution under the budget of CZK 28 billion plus additional funding, because, thanks to the normative costs and, of course, the amendment to the housing contribution, the group of people who would receive the housing contribution has expanded. At this point, I am now announcing that we may be dealing with this with an amendment. [[18.30 hours]] I'm not going to talk here about why we had a special House about it yesterday, how the government threw the middle class overboard as part of energy aid. Of course, we're still suggesting the flat-rate aid. The proof is that only 21,000 additional requests from the large number of people who have been in the energy crisis are now in office. And I can say that even the way one of the coalition partners is proposing the area aid in some way, it's obviously, as we know, pirát, and the dépéháček, if we really forgive him by June, it's going to be at half the cost of the state budget before the pirát, who want to realize roughly CZK 30 billion in their idea. I would just like to mention that in January alone, the number of executions started year on year has increased by 39 percent. Today, statistics have come out, it's about 12,000, it's 23 percent in December, it's 11 in November, and it's not yet counted de facto the increase in energy prices or interest rates that await, of course, the increase in housing costs for families that are currently changing their fixation or perhaps thinking about some mortgage. I believe that we will also be able to make some changes this year and some amendment to the Social Services Act, as I say, will be a debate on the Committee on Social Policy. What I would like to mention is that within the budget there is only an equally allocated amount of CZK 150 million to prevent families, that this amount has not somehow increased. Otherwise, I would like to conclude by saying that I am looking forward to further discussions not only on the House's floor but also on the Social Policy Committee, above the next week's budget. I think I've reduced it to a minimum so that we don't linger here on Friday afternoon or evening, and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u130	Another is with a factual remark registered by Minister Jurečka. I'm gonna load up some apologies. It is an apology to Mr Jiří Kobza for family reasons from 18.08 to 23.54. On the contrary, Mr Josefa Bělica has cancelled his apology since 6:30. Minister, you have the floor, your two minutes with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u131	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, colleagues, I would just like to briefly comment on what Mr Juchelka has said here to address the budget and chapters of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'll give you some basic information. The savings that were made there in contrast to the original proposal from the autumn 2021 by the Government of Andrej Babiš, amounting to CZK 5.9 billion, were logical in a way, i.e. internal savings within the Ministry. These were savings that would affect the reduction in the number of employees within the resort during the year 2022. These are savings under the IT agenda, and they are also, for example, savings within some investment actions, where we expect them to be funded from European sources, or savings relating to some subsidy titles, where we assume that they will also be replaced, for example, from the recovery plan, when we will be launching the challenges in the next few days. So much for a margo for the savings. And then, of course, there are two additional items: CZK 21 billion for the extraordinary valorization that has already been mentioned, and CZK 3 billion for helping households in the energy crisis. I would like to remind you, a fellow Member of Juchelka has also touched this, social services. We don't play bets here, we don't do what's been done here in the past, that there's been changelings pouring money in here, or over the course of the year. We have allocated the sum of the fact that we have a clear budget for social services, which is CZK 20.4 billion, then there is an increased contribution to care, which is CZK 2.4 billion, and then there is the impact of the payment decree of CZK 0,9 billion, which is CZK 23.7 billion. Last year's reality without covid programs was 22.1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u132	Thank you for keeping time. Another is Mr Bžoch in the debate and Mrs Jermanová Pokorná will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u133	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, I will be very brief. I would like to comment on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget, I will not delay because the budget is low, it has always been low, we have always complained about it, but I will stop by some chapters where I am very sorry that money is still being taken from such a low budget. The first is transformation cooperation. It seems to be a small amount, 5 million, and, of course, in the overall large budget, it is a small amount, but it is all the worse in the transformation cooperation, where the budget is 65 million, and each crown we take from it will be missed for projects, such as for example for the support of civil society in Belarus and other such projects. Here I think it's a big shame because it's a small amount of the whole thing. The next thing I'm really sorry about is getting $50 million out of humanitarian aid. Again, it's not such a big amount in the budget, but I think that collecting these amounts and cutting those amounts off from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget is a bad thing. Humanitarian aid, when I look, we have, we deal with it today and every day, the crisis in Ukraine. If something really happens there, and it looks like it, we're gonna need the money because we're gonna want to support them. It's got to do with the transformational cooperation again. And the third thing that I am very sorry about, too, is that foreign development cooperation will be reduced by less than 125 million. It is an instrument that we can use, for example, in economic diplomacy. When these instruments are combined together, we can use them very well to support Czech exports. How? Well, of course, if we're going to be giving development aid somewhere, we can, of course, involve Czech companies. And again, in that overall budget, it's small sums, and that's why I'm very sorry that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only cuts these amounts, and it's just going to come down to our help, the projects that we have. And if the new government is shielding itself by wanting to return to Havel's diplomacy, that's the exact opposite of the MZV budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u134	Now, with a factual remark, Minister Černochová has signed up. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u135	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is ill, so he can't speak here, so I'll try to answer some of the questions. I would like to assure Mr Bžoch, by your means, that although the amount in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for economic cooperation is lower, it is higher in the area of defence. You certainly know, my colleague, through Madam President, that AMOS has been created, which actually employs a part of the people of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which actually carries out a number of projects in the context of economic diplomacy. If you are interested, I will arrange a meeting with my colleagues at the Ministry of Defence, so that you know exactly what is going on in this agency, what projects this agency is actually carrying out. I myself had a meeting last week with the director of the EDA agency, which is actually the agency of the European Union and partly solves things that concern NATO, so this is actually a project that is not in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it is in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, and it is running very well. As far as humanitarian aid is concerned, I can assure you, on behalf of the entire government, that if there is a need for humanitarian aid funds in Ukraine, we will definitely find these funds in the budget in the reserves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u136	Thank you. So now, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, who has already been duly applied for. Mrs Dostálová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u137	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared very carefully for today, I have prepared a long speech, but I will reduce it now, given the time it is Friday, but also because we have a second reading of the state budget, where I will have the opportunity to focus more closely on the various items in the budget relating to the chapter of culture. The most important thing I would like to say is that this new budget presented, compared to the budget initially presented, envisages cuts of CZK 922 million. It may look like a small amount compared to other ministries, but in the small amount that the Ministry of Culture is dealing with, it's a really big deal. Where it saves the most, and I must say that I am very sorry, there are about four areas. It is the promotion of regional cultural infrastructure, where CZK 110 million is being cut, despite the fact that improving culture support in the regions was a priority for this government. Unfortunately, with this cut, it is clear that the development of infrastructure in the regions will not improve its level and we will be happy to keep it in the current state. [[18.40 hours]] Another cut, and it is really painful, especially with regard to the situation in which this area of culture is located, is in the field of living culture. What surprised me and unpleasantly surprised me is that there were cuts in this chapter of CZK 150 million, 100 million goes with the support of professional theatres and permanent professional activities. Again, 100 million crowns. That's how much they'll have less theatre, which is already very bad at the moment. These are theatres that are established, which means that the costs are further shifted to their founders, municipalities, regions. Other cuts in this chapter of CZK 50 million are then directed into the field of cultural activities, from which the support of the newly established, i.e. private cultural institutions, was derived. What I lack in this chapter is the promotion of living culture for the future. I was kind of hoping, maybe I'm wrong, and the Minister will perform either now or at second reading, with his idea of how he wants to promote culture for the future, perhaps he will be inspired by Germany or Austria, where the system is prepared and works very well. What means a huge cut is a cut of CZK 400 million, and that is in the area of the care of material cultural heritage. This was also the priority of the current government. This cut will not ensure development, but will hardly secure the fixing of existing care. What I will certainly ask the Minister will probably not be too much room for this today, but at second reading or in the intercessions, it will be a fact as to whether there will be a delay in spending. Because, of course, I've noticed your statement that it's about spending distribution over time, but I'd like you to inform us about what stage it's at, what it's about and so on. I think that would be fair. And the other thing that caught everyone's attention was the cutting-off of a program that was used by property owners who weren't state-owned, that is, private owners, municipalities and cities. There the cut in this chapter in these programs was worth CZK 190 million. I consider this to be a huge mistake, because, while small amounts are provided from this programme, they helped save rural cultural monuments, and I must say that if the Minister does not count on the renewal of this programme in the future, this will mean huge and incalculable damage for Czech culture and historical monuments. As for the budget itself, I do not want to be just negative and critical, so, Minister, I welcome the fact that there have been no cuts in the contribution to the activities of the State Cinema Fund. Thank you for leaving the film incentives in our proposed amount of CZK 800 million, but I will also propose an amendment to this issue of the State Cinema Fund with the House, because this budget is approved by the extra House, but I will also propose an amendment in this area, because I think that this fund deserves an increase in the contribution to the operation already with a view to overcoming the problems with the increase in energy, but in particular with the national recovery programme. [[prices]] [[The National Recovery Plan?]] So I think we may find a consensus on this, and I hope that you will support my amendment, Minister, because I think that would be right. What I lack in the budget, and that very much, I have mentioned here, that is, a system of support, incentives for organizing festivals, cultural events, because at the moment, this area remains plonk, as out of the interest of the state budget, and I think it is not right. Another thing that I miss very, very much is the response in the budgets of the contribution organisations to increases in energy prices, because you are calling for savings on the operation of the contribution organisations set up by the Ministry of Culture, but the savings will have to be much larger, because the increase in energy will be significant. I would like to close my eyes with this, but let me conclude by quoting from the letter that we all received, I assume that you too, Minister, are a letter from President Jiří Dokoupil from the Union of orchestral musicians of the Czech Republic. And I think, if you'll allow me, to quote one paragraph that says it all. The draft budget of the Ministry of Culture is considerably reduced, not only in comparison to the budget of 2021, but even more significantly compared to the latest proposal of Alena Schillerová from 15. 10. 2021. In this sense, this is a completely unacceptable approach of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Petr Fiala. This, knowing that at present, the promotion of culture by the State is essential, as the area of culture is among the most affected areas affected by the covid-19 pandemic. Without direct support from the state, there is a threat of devastation of cultural institutions in the Czech Republic, and the budget of 2022 itself contributes to it in the field of living art. The government's separate and uneven approach to savings is not only hard to defend and morally distort, but also clearly shows that the Ministry of Culture remains a residual resort for the government of Petr Fiala without proper support. The proof is that in the first year of the operation of the new Minister of Culture Martin Baxa will stagnate the budget of the Ministry of Culture at a level of about 0.68 percent of the expenditure of the state budget. So that's what I wanted to say in conclusion. Minister, expect a few amendments from me. I hope that colleagues from other parties other than the YES movement will join them, because culture should be apolitical and it should be in the interests of all of us to keep it in its best form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u138	The next person to sign up is Minister Baxa with priority rights, so the Member will wait a little longer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u139	Good evening. Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make just a brief comment on the speech by Mrs Jermanová, through the President. My colleague, you have announced a larger performance at second reading, so we can certainly have a more detailed debate at the second reading, or on the committee floor, where the draft budget will be discussed. The Ministry of Culture has responded to the need for austerity measures, I think, in a very thoughtful way, which is in no way contrary to the fact that culture is not a priority for this government, it is also shown in the area of culture in the government's programming declaration, and where, among other things, the aim is that we will therefore aim to achieve 1% of the expenditure of the state budget without spending on churches during this parliamentary term. [[18.50 hours]] It can only be said bitterly that, at a time when the colleague was not a member of the Chamber of Deputies, but when the YES movement was in power and when we had the opportunity to increase the Ministry of Culture's budget more significantly at a time of unprecedented economic prosperity, this did not happen. I'll prove it at second reading. Because, if we are to be really correct and objective, and the presentation of the Member was that way, we must also insert the comparative data to see how, at a time when state budget spending increased by 50 per cent over a few years, huge amounts in the order of several hundred billion crowns, so unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture remained on the brink of interest, and the amount of funds, which at the time it was possible, could have been directed at it, remained very low. However, I do not think that the savings, if compared to the figures, are so dramatic, not only with the draft budget presented by Vice Prime Minister Schillerová at the time, but with the previous draft budget. I just looked at the comparison with the Ministry of Culture's budget for 2021, which means, in fact, last year's, also the cod year, and the difference is only 0.85, about 1 per cent between what is proposed now, compared to what was for 2021. Even the structure of the savings that we are now proposing in this budget is based on limiting as little as possible the cultural service for which either the Ministry of Culture is directly responsible through its contribution organisations or indirectly responsible for supporting them. For this reason, the largest volume of savings proposed in the amount of approximately CZK half a billion constitutes the transfer of investment expenditure. I intend to use the word "transfers," not investment cuts, because, as in other departments, we have done an analysis of how really it will be possible to spend money on investments this year, and we have reached a sum of CZK several hundred million that would not have been spent this year, and they were originally budgeted, so for this reason they form a relatively significant part of the savings. Madame, with careful reading of our chapter notebook, it seems that she has not recorded just one thing. You, my colleague, were talking about saving CZK 400 million for cultural heritage, but I think there was just some misrepresentation or some minor mistake because there was no talk of such a sum. Let me just mention that there were savings in the area of conservation of approximately 190 million crowns, where it is distributed among one conservation subsidy program, which was not written this year, and we assume that it will be written again in the next year, but - this is important - applicants who would have an acute need to obtain funds or a contribution to the restoration of the monument could submit an application to other subsidy programmes of the Ministry of Culture, such as the emergency programme, and we had to give the report in good time. You, Madame, and your colleagues, drew attention to the letter from the Ministry of Culture declaring this, so that applicants could apply to another subsidy programme, where the deadline for applications was January 31st, so as to reveal the cards, but we said it quite correctly and we believe that the subsidy programme for municipalities with extended scope will be written out next year. You correctly mentioned savings of CZK 150 million in live art programs. I will just point out a matter that I think is very important, namely that funds will be transferred from the unused cost of the Ministry of Culture to these programmes for the purpose of cost compensation other than those issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the basis of the Government's resolution on Wednesday and will be funds of almost CZK 100 million. So there will be injections for living art, which I think will compensate for a significant part of these savings, which have been made knowing that there will be no, again I stress, a serious threat to the cultural services provided. Among other things, there was a higher savings in the programme, or a higher savings in the program of professional theatres and symphony orchestras, because they are entities that have yet another source of finance, such as their founder, while cultural activities are related to subjects, you were talking about private, I am talking more generally about non-profit cultural organisations, which are often dependent mainly on this public support. You commented on the film incentives, thank you for correctly mentioning that their savings did not take place. And as far as compensation is concerned, I will mention that I think that when you asked me to say what compensation they would be, the government said that on Wednesday. And I think that the volume and the structure of the compensation that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will write, and I very much thank both Minister Síkel and Minister of Finance Stanjur that we have found a consensus on the generous support of entrepreneurs in the culture affected by the covid crisis, so that will certainly help them. So I'm ready for the House plenary debate with you and my colleagues, and thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u140	Your speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u141	I apologize to my colleagues. I'll be very quick. Minister, chapter of the contribution organization established by the Ministry of Culture, savings of CZK 450 million, of which the programme for the care of the national cultural treasure and heritage minus CZK 400 million. So I know what I said. First of all. Secondly, I wanted to say that I'm not talking about compensation, but I'm talking about promoting culture, system incentives, and so on. And in conclusion, which is a bit off, I wanted to ask everyone: please, my name is Pokorná Jermanová. Not the other way around. So please follow this order because I got married and the new name is Pokorná and Jermanová is original. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u142	It's pointing at me, I'm aware of that. I'm sorry, I know it myself. Is there, I don't know, with actual or preferential rights? With priority rights, Minister Baxa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u143	Thank you. My colleague, if I've knocked your name out of the chair, I'm sorry. I'm sure I'll remember that by now. Let me just remind you that you were actually speaking separately in your performance. You used, I think, the word cuts on investment savings. And then you mentioned the 400 million savings in the cultural heritage, which confused me, because that's the sum that relates to the transfer of investment. Because part of the investment funds is allocated to a program called National Cultural Treasure Care, so maybe it can give the impression of some savings other than those of the transferred investments. So I just want to point out that there was no other means than this. And then I want to mention one more thing that I didn't comment on in my opening act. We will certainly all be dealing with the suggestions sent by President Dokoupil, who, I think, or the President of the Union, Dokoupil, who is very proud to claim to be a representative of trade unions active in culture. I will hold some negotiations with them, but I think that even in this context we must somehow perceive the comments he has written. I'll be ready to argue with him in person and on the floor of the House's organs. Again, there are some other things that we consider important, such as the very significant amount of compensation for cultural entrepreneurs who otherwise have no right to any other support, and we consider them to be a very important part of the so-called cultural ecosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u144	Thank you, too. We are now going back to the general debate, with written applications. Mrs Dostálová, Mr Tureček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u145	Madam President, Minister, fellow Members, I cannot, of course, miss a few remarks on Chapter 317 concerning the Ministry of Regional Development. I, on the one hand, know very well how difficult it is to deal with the Minister or with the Minister of Finance on the MMR budget, because of course it is generally known here that the Ministry manages European programmes, those big European programmes, but it is very difficult to debate, of course, with finances that there are so-called white places that simply cannot be financed from European funds, and that the municipalities of course claim these programmes precisely at the Ministry of Regional Development. [[19.00 hours]] And just one comment through you, Madam President, on Minister Stanjur. It said here that on the one hand, we say that the municipalities and regions have surpluses, and therefore why they need money. It is important to remember that we have 6 250 municipalities in the Czech Republic and 70 percent of the municipalities, Minister, are in thousands of inhabitants. And they really don't have enough budgets to make investments, so grant programs at MMR. And believe me, during my time at the MMR, we and the municipalities have generated programs that really help the municipalities. And when I look at the condition of the state budget for the MMR chapter, I am aware that by the way specific challenges are built, because the municipalities of course want the Ministry to manage all the grant programs over the winter, so that they have the spring construction season to cope with those programs, it is really very difficult to negotiate with the finance minister, because in the state budget it is necessary to find those resources in the relevant calendar year when the challenge is announced. This means that I have found with the Minister of Finance, and for that I thank her very much, 3 billion for the national subsidy programmes in 2021, but that is money for 2022. But no minister can call a challenge if he doesn't have it covered. That is why, of course, it is necessary to put that money there in the relevant year. And it will be up to Minister Bartoš to negotiate exactly that way with Minister Stanjura money in 2022 for 2023, so that he can also announce a call in October. All the more I regret that now that the MMR, and now I apologize for the expression, one day the money goes away, it gives it to the municipalities, not it returns them back to the division into other resorts. The Minister has reduced the already small budget by 200 million in investments. He cut them short at the expense of the programme to support the development of regions and tourism, but, of course, by already having chapter notebooks, so when I looked into it in more detail, it is at the expense of co-financing. This means that it is not at the expense of specific programmes and grant titles, but of co-financing money within European funds. However, 200 million, when I look at how they actually turned out, and today the former Prime Minister, Mr Babiš, spoke about it, is where the MMR demands are worth 12 billion. For 12 billion completed projects under construction permit. Of course, 200 million is a drop in the sea, but for example, when I read in the government's programming statement, as it really means with housing policy, only the technical infrastructure program, which is about investing land for subsequent housing construction, is minus 180 million. So if the Minister had kept 200 million, he wouldn't have put them on the altar of the Ministry of Finance, so he would have had the ability to finance all the projects within the technical infrastructure. I have to say another number here, because the Minister really won't have it easy. If he wants to support projects in the magazine, only local communications are minus CZK 3.9 billion, public buildings minus CZK 2.7 billion. But that's not all. The Ministry of Regional Development faces huge challenges for the future. It must, of course, launch the drawdown of European resources, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, but the Ministry itself has, of course, the components within the National Recovery Plan, for roughly CZK 5.1 billion. And I am very interested in European funds because I have been doing this my whole life, so of course I want the Czech Republic to spend 180 billion, but we are struggling here, and all departments appeal to the fact that VAT expenditure is not eligible. All the resorts that manage the components from the National Recovery Plan will need VAT. Where's the money? Where are they allocated within the state budget to do this? The Ministry has about 1.1 billion in the chapter for this year, of which it is of course partially going to brownfields, where it can therefore be assumed that the VAT will be paid to the beneficiary. I just hope that these recipients do not mean, for example, Terezín or Josefov. These are the cities that inherited huge assets from the state, we wanted to give 100% funding - and now we're going to ask them for VAT? They should have projects worth 1.3 billion, so VAT is some 270 million. Where are the cities gonna get that? So I would rather welcome us joining forces here with the Minister and, of course, appeal to the Minister of Finance to actually put these resources at the disposal of the National Recovery Plan within the state budget. The National Recovery Plan has so-called European components and Czech components. The Ministry of Regional Development has a so-called Czech component there. This is a component that is financed from the state budget and concerns the preparation of investments. What cities, regions, municipalities need most to help them fund the project documentation and all these things, it's called systemic investment support, about CZK 4 billion, and, of course, I don't see a crown in the budget yet. So the Minister can expect many amendments from me, too, but I hope that we will be on the same boat here, and together we will try to push the Minister of Finance to give these resources. The very last one, because I don't want to delay either, I should probably have it for a long time. I have to say, it's a little startling for me to see the chapter notebook of the Supreme Building Office. On the one hand, we say how we're going to build, and if you look at the chapter book of the Supreme Building Office, there's zero. At the same time, the Ministry has negotiated ten jobs for me at the Ministry of Finance, but eight jobs are being cancelled again. So I just hope it won't be at the expense of the new construction law, because here the law needs to be respected and the law applies to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u146	Your speech called for the Minister's application with priority rights, so please Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u147	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, before I respond to Mrs Klára Dostálová, I just wanted to say that I did not want to enter into the overall budget debate. Here we have a lot of, say, partial reservations about funding in chapters of individual ministries' budgets, and let us be aware that not everything that money goes to in the Czech Republic from the state budget, you can assign to the gesture of one resort. Here was blamed in the area of the Ministry of the Interior that a chapter is being cut to support firefighters, and it happens in other cases where someone might say, at this point, money is missing. The Czech Republic, and it is the Ministry of Regional Development, which it manages in its programmes, and in calls for, of course, partners in the region, whether they are regions, whether they are municipalities, even in the case of some programmes they are individuals, persons, see, for example, help with restoring the homes of people affected by Moravia's tornado, so they are firefighters, selected firefighters, selected services, selected investments that the Ministry of Local Development has historically helped finance. I think that's right. I have some numbers here in the REACT program, 104th call between 29. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6. 2022 - 752 million. Then the IROP project. There are individual projects for stations, for training stations, for technicians is the challenge 2015-2017 3.6 billion crowns. So the money, whether it's national programs in some cases, but it's mostly IROP programs, so, of course, a lot of things infrastructure, school equipment go through that money, except they don't have the appropriate item in the resort where you'd expect it, because they're managed through MMR and IROP and they're getting into that region. That's what I'd like to say for starters. It's a lot of projects in regions that go this way. At the same time, it may seem a little confusing what budget the Ministry of Regional Development is managing, because from the outdoor perspective, when we look at total spending, it is about 28 billion, but 94 or how much percent is part of European resources that are not flowing through the Ministry as a flow heater, but are managed by the Ministry and people to reach partners in those regions and in those municipalities. [[19.10 hours]] Why do I say that? If I looked at it by looking at how it is often reported, that there are such pie charts, I would say, we are the Ministry of Investment, which it sends at the time, even though it is not so much, but it is the European Union in those co-financed programs, so those investments that go in the Czech Republic, and it is about 25 billion, run through the Ministry of Regional Development and end up where they are supposed to be, and on the contrary, these programmes are created in close cooperation. I guess that's for starters. Then I'd talk about... Maybe I'll start from the back. We have already been performing in the last parliamentary term, and it has been three years, as opposed parties, that we do not like the idea of the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and it is a long-term dispute with Mrs Klára Dostálová when I was chairman of the Public Administration Committee. The dispute will probably take some time, but now the government is presenting a short amendment to the House of Buildings Act, which will stop the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, the creation of the centrally managed building process, and will replace it with a substantive amendment, which will implement the technical integration, which will then be carried mainly in the area of IT and digital systems. [[Him?]] Why do I say that? Well, from the logic of the matter, the costs and personnel costs of the Supreme Building Office are zero. How did this happen to us? The elections were last year and some kind of process of the government coalition could not have joined its ministries until the end of the year. This had a certain effect on the fact that although most were already in the House at that time, the move that we wanted to stop the emergence of the Supreme Building Office simply could not be realized in that last year, and he, in paper form, is now assuming that this office will be created, however, it is a year and it should start to work from next year. And we just don't do the steps that would lead to something that we reject a priori, and that's why they're not covered in the budget. In response to the national programmes, it is important to say, and it was said here that those programmes, which are of their nature investment and concerning projects for even more years, have some in the quotes in the magazine, I do not deny it, but they are calling out some parametric call for, for example, the construction of social housing or the repair of some infrastructure, even those schools, and in order to write them out, they will be written out in a year and there must be the money, but the actual performance is not happening for several years or two years. But the money has to be there at the beginning. This has a certain effect, and I think it's actually not quite right from the point of view of the budget. I would be in favour of making this even, and it was evident that the budget generated so-called unused expenditure, which is the money that was sent to the account, or the Ministry described in the budget, was written some action, but the actual implementation of which will simply take place later, perhaps. It is also a matter of simultaneously running national programs, and there are a number of them. At this point, the Ministry has the appropriate resources in unused spending, which are still running for some challenges, it just doesn't copy that year, some challenges are still running and the fulfilment of those commitments is there at the moment. As Chairman of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, which, say, is sometimes a partner, sometimes an opposition body of the House towards the Ministry of Regional Development, we have often talked about how these programmes are conceived. And I think that's the answer to the question of former Minister Dostálová. I do not think that, for example, the things relating to the construction programme relating to the available housing programme, the parameters that were created at the time, simply fail to respond to the situation on the construction work market, the material market, and the conditions under which the municipality or the city can go into the programme, because it is not necessary for them to be attractive at the time, it is limiting, for example, the fixed ceiling of the price per metre, and these need to be reconfigured, to make them more advantageous. And I'm glad the secretary mentioned it. Even the government of Andrej Babiš according to needs, sometimes rightly, sometimes because of the PR at a given time, the government basically makes changes to the budget, last year several hundred, maybe a thousand, over one billion, most had to do with covid. And, of course, I am counting on it when we manage to target and configure those programs more precisely, that - and this government has also discussed this in the case of the preparation of the budget - we will, of course, discuss how we will then support the national challenges or, perhaps, European ones. It's nothing unusual. But at this point, national programs are running, and especially things about construction that are a priority for us, we need to target more precisely, offer the most attractive ones for the municipalities, actually see what the role of the Ministry of Regional Development is in this, whether they are some kind of loans that can be and are advantageous, but they serve about 200 applicants or 400 applicants at the level of a housing loan, or we are really focusing on the challenges where the municipalities will be motivated to use the money to build small-scale apartments, affordable housing, and so on. So in this, I wouldn't worry about the 200 million. They are again programmes where co-financing is from European sources and from the state budget. We've done an analysis of the individual programs, and we're essentially re-covering this from the item of unused expenditure at the moment. I just don't want to pretend everything's pink, which is why I'm glad that the former Madam Secretary Dostálová doesn't go into this criticism in some demagogical way. The budget, when you look at it, as presented by the government of Andrej Babiš in the area of national subsidies, except for the mountain service that the Ministry takes care of, was the non-profit part of the mountain service, so in those national programs it was in all zero. And I'm in the budget on the spending page in the last draft, and we're going to reconfigure the challenges, and then we're going to make sure those resources are there. It was also said, and it is also in the government's programming declaration, and the Ministry of Regional Development belongs to the former SFRB, I still did not get used to it, now the SFPI Fund, and also in the government's programming declaration was again after reviewing the effectiveness of those products, or those challenges that are used through the Fund, that this is the way to support construction in the Czech Republic. I would like to point out once again that the regional partners for the Ministry of Regional Development are regions, they are regions, they are municipalities, they are cities. And I think that we should not compete with existing institutions, but really focus on PTP projects, on challenges that will help municipalities to enrich their housing fund, build small-scale apartments, repair infrastructure, and, once the programs have been worked out, we will continue to work according to the government's priorities. Maybe two more things to conclude. It is a question of a large investment that is to come from the National Recovery Plan, and I am a little concerned, and it was also a question of VAT, that the former government of Andrej Babiš left us something that is not quite ready and that already at the moment of its creation had major shortcomings besides the actual delay. We in the National Recovery Plan have several components. The Ministry of Regional Development also takes care of tourism. This component from the National Recovery Plan has somehow fallen out. I think that tourism was one of the most affected areas at the time of the covid, so we are now discussing whether such a component may appear additionally, but the financial support in the National Recovery Plan is not really the one for infrastructure support for tourism, and I think that the omission was wrong to include such a component there. We'll try to fix it. [[19.20 hours]] At this point, I guess it's all for me. I am happy to talk to Mrs Klára Dostálová about the parameters of this budget, especially how the challenges have been configured, because I think the Ministry has been very widespread in its own programmes. On the other hand, I must say that we will support a lot of the things that are set up there now. I think that the help that we have now, and we have already met with representatives of cities or municipalities affected by the tornado, so we are adjusting some of the calls to be more acceptable to them, let's say, to give them even more time, because these projects are relatively complex, and I think that even the debate over those national programmes will open up after we re-set those programmes as needed. I think that the Ministry of Regional Development with this budget will be a good partner to municipalities, regions and institutions, perhaps individuals in regions who need this money and use it in particular as investment money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u148	Thank you, too. Next in the debate entered by Member Tureček, Mr králíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u149	Madam President, colleagues, I would like to make a brief comment on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, where funds of approximately CZK 3.4 billion are being cut. For one thing, this concerns other expenditure on state policy of the Ministry, inspection, control and research activities, amounting to approximately CZK 1.3 billion, and cuts in forestry - CZK 330 million, water management - CZK 200 million. But what I don't like about the cuts at all is that it cuts in the area of rural development, and that is CZK 1.6 billion. And here I would like to pause on this amount, because, on the one hand, these are funds that are intended as national funds for the financing of European resources, and of course, for these funds, the principle is that roughly every koruna from national resources generates two crowns from European resources. So here the blunt cut of CZK 1.6 billion has the effect that it can mostly touch up total funds in rural development amounting to CZK 4.8 billion. And I think that the Czech, Moravian and Silesian countryside is in no way worthy. By restricting rural financing, again, there can be adverse trends in rural areas, such as depopulation. There will be economically active people going to cities, and the countryside will grow old. I would also like to emphasise that rural issues relate in particular to those areas where, of course, there is lower economic activity in rural areas, lower employment, lower incomes, larger families, problems with transport accessibility, problem with civic amenities and, last but not least, medical care is also a much bigger problem in rural areas than in the city. I also want to stress that the last time this blunt cut was carried out in 2009, when a total of CZK 6 billion was collected from the Rural Development Programme. Between 2013 and 2021, these funds managed to stabilise the rural development programme and rural support policies at all thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Regional Development. I can also state the 2020 figure, when for the first time since 1989 population profits were recorded in municipalities up to 2,000 inhabitants, when there were more than 20,800 inhabitants in rural areas in the very small municipalities. This is what I think is practically a consequence of the fact that rural development policy was a clear priority between 2013 and 2021. So I'm also sorry for two other things about this amount of CZK 1.6 billion. Like I said, the first thing is kind of... it concerns the region that practically these funds generate additional resources from the European Union. Furthermore, when the government's confidence has been discussed here, I think I have noted the official promise that national co-financing will not be reduced and will remain at 65 percent of national resources for the Rural Development Programme. If I take that major cut, which reduced the state budget share from around CZK 4,532 billion to CZK 2.932 billion, and I add to that the share of the European Union, which is going to be 8.9 billion this year, I am getting to a figure of not 65 per cent, but 32 per cent. So I'm asking where the promise of that 65 percent is when, according to the draft budget, we're at 32 percent. I hope that we will discuss this issue widely both on the agricultural committee and I hope that we will succeed in practically kind of asserting that rural development policy will continue to be a priority for this Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u150	Thank you, too. Another enrollment is a Member of the králíček. Please, you have the floor. The Member shall have the floor, and then Mr Vondráček will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u151	Good evening. I would like to briefly, and I hope, to comment on some points in the state budget, even though there is neither the Minister of Finance, nor the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of the Interior to whom I wanted to speak, but I believe they will at least hear it, because in the last few days we are talking a lot about security, whether international. Minister Rakušan, too, mentioned the activity that was in favour of the Members who voted in favour of the pandemic law. In fact, because of what happened, some of the addresses of Members were then monitored by police officers. Policemen, to whom you have not added the original 1,400, but only 700 crowns. We also talked about other security trends moving from conventional space to cyberspace. For the past four years, we have been giving positive reviews across the political spectrum and commending our secret services, which have worked well in various security incidents. I am even more concerned that there are negative figures in the draft budget. At the SAOKIB, at the National Cyber and Information Security Office, where we are constantly hearing from the current coalition, which was in opposition, how important cyber security is, and I remember well how Bartošek, my colleague, made amendments when he wanted to add money to the National Cyber and Information Security Office. He talked about how it's undersized, he talked about how nobody's doing it. And the result of the current proposal is minus 28 million. Most of all, however, I am struck by the BIS budget. The recently appointed director Michal Koudelka got minus 56 million in wine. Minus 56 million to allow this counterintelligence to do its job well. So did GIBS minus 16.4 million and at the end of the NBU minus 14.8 million. I would hate to see that the NSA will not have the capacity, for example, to carry out checks in the Office of the President of the Republic on the basis of the last case of alleged shredding of documents. And I'm getting an anagram of the fact that Mr.Michálek's assistant here, Mr.Ferjenčík, proposed and criticised the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic about Babiš's hand and the like. He proposed two amendments minus 6.6 million. And, hey, the pirát are in the government, and there's no reduction. The office of the President of the Republic still has the same budget. Interesting change. [[19.30 hours]] In conclusion, I was inspired yesterday by the performance of Minister Jurečka, who said that the government of Andrej Babiš had not moved digitalization to the MPSV. So just to remind you, the MPSV has received at least two awards in the area of digitization over the past four years, namely for eInability and portal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And if he criticizes the inaction of digitalisation on the MPSV, he also criticizes the work of fellow members of Mr. Bartoš, because one of the advisors at the MPSV was Mr. Bláha, whom we elected today on the Board of Directors of the VZP. And just to remind you, the MPSV has 23 billion in the National Recovery Plan, so I think they can digitize happily. In conclusion, I would just like to take this opportunity, and when we're talking about the police and the security forces you took away roughly, if I count it, somewhere around CZK 90 million, I'd like to thank the security staff for sticking around with us all week and keeping an eye on us and performing many hours in excess of their work obligations, even if you don't give them the original amount that was there. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u152	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now Minister Ivan Bartoš has signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u153	Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would still respond to Mr Králíček's previous speaker through Madam President. When I spoke, and I believe that we must support our regions, that these are not just agglomerations and large cities where life is happening, it is also one of the objectives of the Pirates and starosta coalition. And when you talked about the funding, and I said before that on the expenditure side of the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development is roughly in European money, and now I say roughly, CZK 26 billion is planned this year, so 92.42 percent of the expenditure blocks are support for regional development and tourism. Let's say agricultural policy, but even the environment, it's also a lot of programs. And for example, the funds' budgets are significantly richer than the SFPI or the Ministry of Regional Development. So regional development, investment in regions is being covered through often, perhaps, cohesion funds or through IROP or through other programmes that aim at balance in the region. My goal is for the aid to be more direct, for the differences to actually be erased, for a certain standard of infrastructure and services in the regions to be equipped, and for that money to be very precise. I would just say that it is not the budget of one ministry, which in some way supports regional development and small municipalities, but it is more ministries in its programmes. And for the Ministry of Regional Development, this is quite significant - 92.4 percent of the total expenditure, that is, the total expenditure is 28 billion, that is money that goes into the development of regions, and partly to tourism that is related to it. And now I'd only react briefly to Mr. Králíček, it won't be confrontational in any way, I wouldn't dare. I've been trying, and it's kind of ant job, but I have a pretty good team. Even if he was great, it's probably not gonna help us at this point, because I'm of the opinion that what we don't measure, we don't really control that much. And I am very glad that even in these conditions we sometimes succeed, and sometimes it is a resort, sometimes it is a region, sometimes it is a community, succeed with some project and then maybe even get some national awards or international awards. When ready is tested, our people at the cyber training Olympics, or as I would call it, are very successful as individuals in cyber defense. But please, let's not measure the quality of digitization by the price of successful projects, and let's not measure it by the money either. I was trying to figure out how much, because we often talked, we digitized and sent in an extra 450 million, the former Minister Schillerová said that time. And you think, is that a lot? Isn't that enough? I've been trying to figure out what the real budget is 2022, and now I'm just saying the budget that goes to IT spending. And opinions vary. When I look at the Treasury and I calculate everything I think is IT, I end up at some 15 billion 863 million, if I'm not mistaken. However, if I look at the SAO, which is more cautious because it knows that a number of IT expenditures are not at all expenditures in the IT box, they are not linked to software maintenance, software development, licenses, but they are consulting services, because it is not known-how on a number of ministries, although local IT deputy and department are trying, so it can be more and less. Let's say the SAO is a little more cautious in this regard, and the amount says higher because it knows that these services are incorporated differently. It doesn't even fit what I look at when I ask about the National Recovery Plan. The Treasury thinks something, NAKIT thinks something. A lot of things at the IROP are going on a way to digitize. However, only total investment figures are available. So the quality of IT or, respectively, whether it's good or bad, it can't be measured by the costs that are issued to IT at the time. On the contrary, I think, but we are only there for a second month in the government, that a thorough analysis already can be significantly spared on the total costs. And I think with a calm heart, I would talk like tens, maybe over all the resorts and hundreds of millions without really being threatened by IT in any way. On the other hand, even in the National Recovery Plan, I see projects, and this is not the government here, it really didn't prepare it here, the government that is more prepared, and the projects that are ambitiously targeted in the National Recovery Plan, where we are supposed to meet the milestones on which the money is then allocated to us and in the national budget that will pay them first, are returned, where I have to say that the projects are in such a state that I have great concern at all to run them to reach the milestones at the moment. But we'll do our best. For example, the critical project for the digitization of the building process is promisingly in progress, but somehow the former government did not leave us with the personnel coverage that has the know-how, this contract, to take care of it at all. And I think that's the question. And we decided to take digitalization in a slightly different way, to give it a person in the government who will deal with it, to build a basic team of governance under the Office of the Government, which, after the IT transformation takes place, so that it is manageable and strengthens the role of central registers, strengthens the role of architects of the entire department, which are architecture, so that we can really go and help individual ministries to the extent that there is no consultant to which IT eventually goes according to some ruts, maybe it does not reflect the things that he recommends and help make the transformation. When the MPSV was mentioned here, everyone knows how every minister who comes in knows what the problem with vendor lock-in is with the system that serves welfare. That's the kind of thing that everybody's been throwing at each other. Nobody bit it. We're gonna have to bite it. And the situation is very similar. The situation is very similar to the Ministry of Finance. It was just historically built systems that no one has keys to, only a supplier, where huge amounts are paid for licenses and traffic, for support. And every change that's required from the resort where it's no longer know-how, as the processes actually work, is very expensively paid on the development side. This is where we have to go. [[19.40 hours]] I think what's important, and I believe that when we stand here in a year, maybe at a different time, we can look at what the core of Czech IT is, what central services are at this moment under the Ministry of the Interior. They're registers, they're identity systems. How much do these systems cost? With what money in the budget chapter do we support the core of Czech digitalization? And how do we manage to control the expenses? Because the costs in a large part, the 15 and some billion, are not the actual development costs, but in a large percentage they are the maintenance costs. These are costs that are not spent in accordance with the Digital Czech Republic strategy, which, although incurred under other governments, is well written. And I think that if we... or the previous government controlled at least half of it, we could have crossed that departmentalism, we'd have been much further in digitalization. Recently there was a Czech IT benchmark, how in the eGovernment area there are individual ministries, how the catalogue plan of services is being implemented. Well, it's not twice pink for us to be running out of time. So, to sum up, the picture that is in the budget, I have tried to figure it out differently, what are the programmes that are funded from the EU's source, which is financed from the IROP, what is the real budget, what money goes to research and development - it really does make this sum, but this sum from my point of view and also from the perspective of the assessment of Czech IT, or whether this government places emphasis on it is not at all indicative. I believe that once we can build that central team, join forces with the competence center, with NAKIT and actually cross the resortism, those investments will be lower and digitalization will be significantly more effective. And it'll take money for that. So when someone pops up, what kind of investment in IT is, when we proceed in this project way, what's going on here, I'll be able to say, This is the investment that's supposed to change the course of that IT in the Czech Republic. It's ambitious, it won't be easy. I am glad that the members of the government see in this common goal somehow crossing the Rubikon and getting into some regime where the real money that is embedded in IT is money saved in the finals. Where, even in digitization, the multiplier effect of the money is that it is not pure spending, but it saves time not only for people on the side of system users but for the running of the state, and we will see this still-sung Estonian model, where good digitization saves 3% of gross domestic product, and we look at stable IT, where it is also a joy for people who were not used to working in government, working for it, having an adequate reward and doing it to IT at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u154	Thank you, Minister. With a factual point, Mr králíček is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u155	I don't want to stretch it out, I'm sorry, just for a little while. I didn't criticize the digitization budget. I didn't mention that at all, because we talked about it and agreed that we were emphasizing it on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because I know that the budget is difficult to digitize, and I didn't find those investments there. And I don't want to delay the plenary, and I want to discuss it with the committee. I didn't criticize anyone's work on the MPSV. I just said those things, the criticism, yesterday. The criticism was heard from Mr. Jurečka's mouth. I just don't agree with him. I think there was a lot of digitalization on the MPSV, and those things were just a statement. I just said that I'm possibly heading for the pirát' ranks. I don't agree with him. What I criticized was the budget reduction, in my opinion, for the key security forces and for the SAO, for the BIS, for the GIBS and for the NBU. I criticized that, which I think is wrong, because if we want good quality work from the security forces, we shouldn't be cutting them this budget. And I also criticized the fact that the police were not added to the original 1,400, but only 700 crowns. I have not criticized digitalisation in this sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, Minister Černochová has signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u157	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to respond in my speech to a fellow Member, Mr Králíček, who mentioned here that we did not apply to the members of the Security Corps what they proposed in the context of valorisation. I would like to remind Mr Králíček of my intervention from 20 April 2020, when I intervened with the Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, who was part of the Government of Andrej Babiš, where Mr králíček was a Member during the last parliamentary term. And you, my colleague, you know that even though I was a member of the Security Committee, I tried to get a so-called stabilisation contribution into the law. In order to really have the opportunity to stabilize the police, including the members of the local security service, to keep them from leaving Prague, so that the really demanding service in those cities and cities such as Prague, can be performed by people who will be properly valued for it. It didn't happen, colleague Králíček, nothing at all. At my interview, the Minister of Interior replied: I must begin by saying that the stabilization fee has not yet been paid to members of the security forces under the authority of the Ministry of Interior. For the financial year 2020, the priority of the Ministry of the Interior was to ensure a flat-rate increase of all the salaries of security forces members by the same amount and other blah, blah, blah. I'd like to ask you, colleague, and I'm willing to go with you. I'm talking to them, too. Do you know what the stumbling block of the security service you're mentioning here is? That they don't even have the full risk... or the supplement that's given by some kind of utilization, based on the risk associated with the job. If your interior ministers in the government in which you sat as a Member would give them this amount, at least their salaries would be equal to the salaries that members have in other departments. So believe me, as an MP, I'm aware of where there's a stumbling block on the salaries of those people who guard us, do their jobs well, spend long hours with us, I appreciate their work too. And I'm just sorry that you're here now blaming us for some 700 crowns of valorization, and you won't remember that it was your government that could have raised those salaries by this part of the salary so that the salaries would have been higher. Why didn't you do it when you ruled here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u158	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Robert králíček is now signed up with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u159	Just for a little while. Even if that's true, I can't respond to you right now, Madam Secretary - but you have the space, so do it. If we made a mistake, I'll admit it, and you could have done it now. Mr. Rakušan before he submitted it, or he could've submitted it, if you've interpelled it, you know, he could've submitted it, it could've been in the budget, it could've been done. You're still criticizing. But you're not in opposition anymore. You're in the coalition now, so do it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, with a point of order. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u161	Mr. Králíček, we would have done so if we had gotten to law enforcement. We haven't gotten to law enforcement yet. And if the stability contribution isn't in the law because you've blocked it, then we can't do it by the Rakušan Interior Minister sitting down and saying, well, let's do the math. He can't! Because he needs to have the legal possibility that the stabilization allowance could even be paid to those cops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u162	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Radek Vondráček will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u163	Thank you for the floor. I didn't get erased. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a brief comment within the Justice and Budget Department. Look at the atmosphere in which we are discussing the state budget. In a half-empty room, Friday night, after a week when we've been here for two nights. I consider it another sign of the irrationality and the inconclusiveness of the coalition. Consider that you have 18 ministers, so if 18 Members were to speak to you and want to debate with those Ministers, that is 18 dialogues, and you basically put it on Friday, and there is a vote on the pandemic law. I call it very much to be positive that your ministers are speaking and discussing. That's a positive thing, and I appreciate that. You can't see it here, but the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister are in the hall, even though they're not behind me. You know, I always imagined that the budget was supposed to be some reasonable outlook for a good economy, that it wasn't some stupid cutout show à la foxterier, as we learned today. I do not think that the budget should be a game with numbers that everyone who knows it is not true, that the pseudo-cuts are only on paper, that it is not actually possible to keep it, and even deny the reality and legal obligations of the Czech Republic. I want to demonstrate it to you on the budget of the Justice Department. The Minister of Justice is not here. We already have such a tradition, I always do when I act to trust the government or to interpel him, he's not here. So I don't blame him, I just want to tell him, so he understands that his entire budget is a smash and it's a flop. And I'm going to explain it to you on the basics. On the other hand, the originally proposed budget is minus 1.785 billion. The biggest difference is on the justice section, it's minus 1 billion 234 million. And it says that judges are supposed to save 287 million on the salaries of prosecutors 96. Oh, please, these are, excuse me, virtual readings. You're celebrating your savings here, and I'm telling you, we're not gonna save that money because we voted unconstitutionally here. We've only cut back salaries for one group of civil servants. And those judges will turn to the Constitutional Court, and this time I'll be on their side, because what happened here denied the agreement when they forgave this country 3 billion for a penalty. So the money's saved now, I respect that the Minister has to have it in that budget because there's no other way, but let's not pretend it's a savings. It's an absurd savings and it's on paper. The biggest difference in this budget is 0.861 billion in other expenditures in the judicial area. It's also the other prison area expenses, 0.551 billion. The only real of these savings is wage savings, and they are 109 million minus for employees in the service stations, for security guards minus 195 million, in the civil service minus 11 million, for salaries derived from constitutional officials minus 96 million. That's pretty simple, that's the 1,400 crowns you took from those court clerks you didn't give them. And that's the only real savings on the Justice Department, and don't be mad, no one's gonna applaud you for that. That budget completely ignores what's really meant to be paid. Here are cuts to traffic that will not be possible to keep. The previous budget, I'm telling you straight, was tense. It was cut lightly already, Minister Benešová and Schillerová fought against each other, and it is further drawn from that. It's completely ignored by the energy surge. [[prices]] I don't know if the Minister of Justice knows that his department competed for energy, competed for a higher price, about 2,500 in a megawatt hour, and the competition fell, now it's new, and it's going to cost 5,000. There's at least a double increase in energy, and the budget isn't talking about it, because one day it's decided that the budget has to look good, and there's no train going through it. By the way, I think it's a political mistake in the Justice Department. If you had left the old one and eventually moved some funds in the framework of the amendments, they would have made some kind of reserve, so it would have been much more comfortable for the minister. And I think at the end of the year I'll have a lot of arguments: I'm sorry, I told you, I told you. It is not taken into account at all in the budget that, for example, the lawyers on the attorney's tariff were canceled by the so-called flood discount, when the lawyers here for 20 years received 10 percent less ex-offo remuneration. Now they're getting them in full, but do you think the budget remembers that it's gonna do, like, $50 million? What about the bailiffs? We've adopted a novel here about bagatile executions, which are known to be in the case of small executions, when enforced in vain for three years and the creditor doesn't deposit the advance, so they stop and the bailout gets some money from the Ministry of Justice. They can, and not that they can, be hundreds of millions. That's gonna be hundreds of millions, and those hundreds of millions aren't even on the budget. All of this is gonna have to be paid, and the D.O.D. looks like it's not like it doesn't exist. I would like to know if, for example - we will meet with the Minister on Sunday in Questions of Václav Moravec, I will ask him there, but I would really like to know if he is willing to put his head on a block, give his political responsibility to the fact that this budget will be respected and that we will not meet here over the amendment to the State Budget Act sometime within six months. If not, there's been some talk about betting on the education section, I'd like to bet Mr. Blažek, too, if he thinks he didn't argue with the money that he didn't, which he didn't, as the Minister of Justice, argue on the finances, if that's enough for him. I'm warning you that the number of prisoners is increasing, that the downward trend is reversed, and the prisoners are increasing. Prison service has a long-term spreadsheet. She had some kind of reserve, you're taking it away from her with the cuts. The daily dose per prisoner is CZK 65 per day, one of the lowest in Europe, somewhere behind Romania and Bulgaria. Do you really think, at rising food prices, when this government doesn't do anything about basic food, that you can do it, feed the prisoner for CZK 65 a day? I was listening today to Prime Minister Fiala say he wanted a thin state. I didn't know we were gonna start by starving the prisoners. [[Want]] I'd probably put some little improvement on the minister's behalf if he cancels two of the undersecretaries of the seven or how many he has there, he might have one prison to feed. I insist they're blunt cuts, they're just cuts, and they're not system solutions that go somewhere. Why don't we talk about the number of judges? We have very many judges relatively when compared with other countries. But it has to be courage, we have to talk about it, and we need to change the ratio of the number of judges, the number of assistants. Even in the judicial part, the fact that energy is growing more than twice as much is not taken into account at all. I'm pointing out that there's got to be a light in these courts and it's got to be drowned. Let's all pray for a mild winter, or at the end, maybe he'll sue through Skype, maybe through the home office, but certainly not in court buildings. That's why I'm not actually blaming the numbers directly to the Minister of Justice, I'm blaming him for not fighting back, for blowing off the resort. And I look forward to our next debate, hopefully we'll both be present this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u164	Thank you, Mr Member, and Mr Richard Brabec is now in session for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u165	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, when I last spoke, it was 5:00 a.m., now it's 8:00 p.m., so hopefully I'll ever see myself talking at some reasonable time. Before me, the Trio of Tureček, králíček, Vondráček, I think it would be nice for Brabeček to speak. [[Happy.]] But now, Brabec tells you dry, so I'm sorry about this late hour. [[With laughter:]] Sparrow. [[The general cheer continues.]] Well, at least I made you happy, that's right. Oh, I'm gonna be such a quick-Brabeček Brobby. [[He's laughing, he's cheering again in the hall.]] [[20.00 hours]] When I look at the budget, unsurprisingly, you must have figured out what chapter of the budget I'm going to be going to, of course, we're going to play the main part with the Minister and her team on the committee and, of course, at second reading, where I will certainly make some amendments. I'm just going to focus on some really basic facts. When I look at the budget in revenue, it looks very optimistic because revenue for this year is CZK 38.7 billion, which is, of course, an astronomical amount. It's almost 18 billion more than the year before. But, of course, if we look closer, we will find that this is primarily due to European money and revenues from the sale of emission allowances. But it is a bit poured - poured out, because it is clear that European funds also have, of course, their specific dads and moms in specific projects, which is certainly good. Now it is important that the Ministry can prove the huge money that is rolling in there, and many of these programs have been negotiated by our government, basically all of them, including the new Environment Operational Programme, to be used effectively. I'm just going to mention that this is obviously not a bad thing, and luckily, that European money has always been the engine in the last many years of environmental investment, and it is so good. If we were to invest in the environment only from the Czech state budget, we would, of course, do significantly less than what the operational programmes and the new modernization fund, the National Recovery Plan, or the Fair Transformation Fund have helped us. But when I look at the comparison of our government's budget and this budget, I see a drop of about 680 million, that's 683, and 500 million went down the subsidy programs, especially the Landscape Care Program, which was originally 150 million, but we raised it to 300 million last year, and also to the New Green Savings. 100 million down is cut in salaries and about 80 million in traffic. I'm sure I'd like to encourage the Minister to fight again. I know it's being considered that it might be financed from other sources, but I'm sure we can agree that the Landscape Care Programme is an extremely important program that finances hundreds of very interesting projects in the countryside, water retention in the countryside, planting trees and so on. It is a very successful program, a very popular program in the whole Czech Republic for municipalities, volunteers and so on. So I'm sure it would be good if the increased money were preserved. And of course the same applies to the New Green Savings, which has become one of the best programs, I dare say, even the best program in the Czech Republic to reduce the energy performance of buildings, whether family or residential. Surely this programme should not be limited by money, because the interest, and the Minister knows it well, is growing very much. He's been record-breaking for us, and he's still growing. This means that it should not happen that there is no money for it, all the more so when it is financed from the proceeds of emission allowances and they are increasingly fueling the state budget. Now it's expected to be 20 billion, this year. And as much money as possible should end up in the field of the environment. So I'm definitely gonna support every way that money ends up in the field of the environment. I will certainly also make amendments in this respect. It is important that every minister, I think it is his greatest task, has always won as much money for his department, though every finance minister has a hardened heart and does not want to give, but that is the role of those ministerial ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pavel Růžička, Mr Jan Richter, will be prepared. [[Secretary Hubáčková requests the floor.]] Wait a minute. I have a request here with the Prime Minister's priority right. She'd like to respond. Is that possible, gentlemen? Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u167	Good evening to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I thank you for the words on our budget, they will really touch the most, as the Member mentioned, the subsidy programmes. I would just like to assure you, I will be very short that we are looking for ways to get these subsidy programs, especially in the care of the landscape, from European sources, how to supplement them and perhaps even strengthen more than 300 million crowns, especially from the National Recovery Programme. I'm sure we'll talk about it on the committee. New green savings - that's where I'd like to send out the signal that, as far as the running programs from last year are concerned, there's absolutely no problem. And this year's cutbacks, I think we can also replace or use the European money. So I'm sure we'll be looking for ways. And the multi-source funding here is appropriate, and we're definitely gonna try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u168	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And now, with Mr Lukáš Vlček's factual remark, I will ask Mr Růžička to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u169	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I would like to add one more thing to the Minister in terms of support for the state budget. On the Committee on the Environment, we are very seriously aware of the need to ensure a sufficient amount of financial resources for the environment, expressed mainly in the sense of the European programmes mentioned, but mainly in the framework of the State Environmental Fund. We try very hard to communicate with individual regions, because most regions of the Czech Republic also announce a number of programmes that deal with the issue of water retention in the landscape and the removal and treatment of waste water or the supply of people with quality drinking water or project preparation, so that there is a good quality project readiness for this area. I am very pleased that many regions have reflected this in recent years because, in our view, coordination of municipalities is very necessary, which means municipal, but also regional and national budgets. So, in our view, this is one of the areas that can also help significantly with some austerity measures, because associations of both municipal and national and regional budgets in this area can help significantly. So we also strongly support this area on the committee, and we will be very happy to see it also appear in the draft state budget, as it is being discovered here. So thank you, Madam President, for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pavel Růžička is now signed in and Mr Jan Richter will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u171	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Defence - Chapter of the State Budget - 5.4 billion. I'm sure you remember when we were moving $5 billion out of the budget, as the former chairman of the Defence Committee, the current secretary, was emotionally speaking and defending the army's budget, and how that, when she takes away $5 billion, would endanger her ability, how our country's defence will be threatened, and in her emotional speech here she made it clear that we are doing a bad thing. Then we returned the $5 billion of the defense department. And here in the proposed budget is minus 5.4 billion. So if the secretary here says anything, she can't be trusted anymore because it's her clear loss to their finance minister. I see the difference in the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the current government and the proposed by us only in a fierce attempt to keep the promise of a reduction in deficit in the form of simple cuts and the alleged non-implementation of the BVP project as an excuse to justify these cuts. If I want to disprove the idea of the BVP, I'm sure the Minister must admit that the modernization should have started sometime in 2010, when it was Mirek Topolánek's government, the Minister of Defence was Mr Vondra and the director of the cabinet of the current Deputy Minister Šulc. And they have done nothing in this area. We all know what deficit of the defence budget has been in recent decades, even in previous ODS governments. In my opinion, there is no reason to cut back and reduce the defense budget. The army urgently needs this money, especially in this complex international security situation, where it must continue to modernise and build capabilities. [[20.10 hours]] The government committed itself in the programme declaration to 2 percent of defence expenditure in 2025. In the case of 2% of GDP, this would be a leap increase of 40 billion or more by 2025. So far, we haven't heard where the government wants to take it. The chapter book of the Ministry of Defence, which we received together with the draft state budget, states that the estimated share of the Ministry of Defence chapter on predicted GDP for the 2022 proposal amounts to 1.33 %, in the first year of the medium term, is expected to be 1.42 percent and in 2024 to 1.49 %. With this set parameters of the envisaged proposal, so far the Czech Republic's political commitment to NATO has not been approached, this is achieving the share of defence expenditure on GDP of 2%. The draft state budget states that you will only seek to adjust the limits of defence expenditure in order to meet the government's programming declaration, that is to achieve a share of defence expenditure of 2% of GDP in 2025. For the reasons set out above, I see the difference in the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the current government and proposed by us only in a fierce attempt to keep the promise of a reduction in deficit in the form of simple cuts and the alleged non-implementation of the BVP project as an excuse to justify these cuts. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter was designed by our government for 2022 in the amount of CZK 93.5 billion. The share of expenditure in this chapter on GDP has been calculated at 1.45 and converted at 1.41. The increasing trajectory of defence expenditure would also be maintained in comparison with the budget of 2021 in year-on-year comparison. Perhaps it would be fair, Madam Secretary, to tell the soldiers that you just don't want to give them the money and that you lost the war with the Treasury Secretary, and the army won't have the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u172	Thank you, too. Ms. Jana Černochová has applied with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u173	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mr Růžička, Mr Růžička, through Madam Vice-President. I don't know who wrote your speech, but you shouldn't pay him a penny. They didn't take your $5 billion, but they took your $10 billion, first of all. They came back here until March, intricately, for two sums. You, members of the ANO movement, had them taken from the Communists, and for that you left their deputy Mr. Müller at the Ministry of Defence. It's called a newsstand. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] You said before the dime that Minister Vondra in 2010 in the government of Mr. Mirek Topolánek, you are also a little confused, but it doesn't matter, Minister Vondra was a Minister of Defence, and Minister Vondra - imagine this, Mr. Růžička - 18. 5. 2011 issued historically the first strategic document that the infantry combat vehicles mentioned in the White Paper on Defence, which was approved by the Czech Government by resolution 369. Here two possible basic options for solving the elimination of BVP-2 have already been mentioned, either by modernising the BVP-1 vehicles or by replacing new vehicles. Furthermore, the Minister, then Minister of Defence Vondra in 2012, asked the then Chief of Staff, whom - to remind you - General Picek was to organise an information briefing on the possibility of replacing infantry combat vehicles, which dealt with variants of solutions. In 2013, Mr Picek was still Chief of Staff, so he set up a commission in January 2013 to discuss the possibility of replacing infantry combat vehicles, which issued a final report in June 2014, in which he proposes the acquisition of 209 vehicles in 9 modifications. Attention, we were in September 2013, a marketing survey was prepared to replace existing infantry combat vehicles. We are in October 2013, the concept of the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic was developed, where it was originally considered completely unrealistic to replace infantry combat vehicles by 2020, in the end a passage appeared in the final text: continuation of the acquisition of vehicles on the universal belt platform as a replacement of BVP-2 as one of the main projects of the development of capabilities to reach a milestone in 2025. He was no longer Secretary of Defense, Mr. Alexandr Vondra, but he was Secretary of Defense, General Picek. The year 2014 is coming and the era of the ANO Defence Ministers, which lasted precisely from 29 January 2014 to 17 December 2021, i.e. a long eight years. I've got six here. And fours described the step by step that took place around the infantry's combat vehicles. I also have a very strong statement from all the ministers for the ANO movement, who expressed themselves in the sense that it is extremely important that infantry vehicles be purchased, and as they are in bows and can be signed by Minister Šlechtová ASAP, she was told by the Minister for the YES movement, Minister of Defence Stropnický. Unfortunately, I was in the same situation thanks to your Minister Metnar. I would like to recapitulate the year 2020 only: 14. May 2020, after we were repeatedly on the Defence Committee, virtually every Defence Committee wanted information from the Minister of Defence, Metnar, as it comes to the end of the purchase of infantry combat vehicles, and we have been repeatedly, you, me, other colleagues, assured that it is already behind the door, that by mid-term, by the end of the year, so now allow me a small retro by 2020. [[He's still talking very loudly.]] In May 2020 sending a letter to suppliers, a maximum price, technical parameters, financing model, contract system, Appendix 1 processed on the basis of the results of the multi-cycle negotiated procedure following the submission of preliminary offers from suppliers. 30. 6. 2020 responses from suppliers. 9. 9. 2020 Supplement No.2 processed on the basis of an extension of the time parameter of the property reproduction programme 107B08. [[20.20 hours]] On 23 to 25 September 2020, negotiations with suppliers for licences. 14. 10. 2020 withdrawal of PSM from the contract. PSM with PUMA armor decided to leave the competition. In October 2020, Appendix 3 was prepared on the basis of the opinion of the property manager MU61-63 on the acquisition of intangible assets of licences and project documentation. Attention, we're in 2021, the year of the election, when practically every month it was: It's coming, we're gonna make it. The Minister said that he could not imagine that this contract would end under the table and that it would not be completed. For my repeated questions: Minister, do you have variant B? There is no need to have variant B, this contract will be executed and the contract will be concluded. On 22 April 2021 Appendix 4 was prepared on the basis of the proposed change in the rate of financing of the project and the requirements of the project team resulting from negotiations with suppliers. 26 to 24 to 6. 6. 2021 testing of functional samples, implementation period. 27. 5. 2021, again, calls for tenders. 8. to 10. 6. 2021 negotiations with suppliers for offers. Round one, round nine. 7. 2021, decision NŘ SOPS MO to use the general derogation. 20 to 22. 7. negotiations with suppliers for offers, second round. 1. 9. 2021 submission of offers to suppliers. 3. 9. 2021 assessment of tenders by the Commission for the assessment of tenders. 16. 9. 2021 requests for addition of information to all suppliers. That was the 9,000 questions no one answered just to remind you what you haven't heard. And watch out, we're going to the finals. 5. 11. 2021 exclusion of tenders, not suppliers. Dear fellow Member Růžička, I would like to see you, if you were in the position of Secretary of Defense, you dreamed it, so I understand you're a little disillusioned that I'm standing here, but I really wouldn't wish it on you. I wouldn't want you to come to the resort in the situation where I came in, find one skeleton in the closet after another, find jobs that may be covered in the budget, but you know you're not gonna sign them. Madam former Minister of Finance, Chairman of the ANO Club, if you knew in advance that the contract would not be realized, would you allow your fellow Members from the MPs, your ministers, to put the budget of the contract into the budget if you knew that the amount was 5 billion, and would you know that it would end up in the NNV, that at the end of the year, it would end up in unused expenses? By the way, Mr. Stropnický was down to $5 billion. Mrs. Šlechtová ended there less, Mr. Metnar ended there even less than Mrs. Šlechtová. So I'm not criticizing. In fact, under your leadership of the Treasury, you tried not to make those NNVs as high as they used to be before your arrival. But really believe me, if I hadn't cut this action out of the budget, you would be the first to beat me up here for keeping the funds in the budget for something I just knew at the end of February that wouldn't be implemented. At this point, legal assessment is under way, because what happened to this public contract can mean very fatal consequences for other budgets in the Czech Republic. Indeed, there can be some arbitration, some litigation, and we can be sanctioned as the Czech Republic for some of the steps that my predecessor has taken here in the past. And I want to have a clean table, and I want to know that if I sign a contract, and I'm not afraid to sign a contract, there's no risk of paying more than we have to. And by the way, another lie about blowing the deal. I still believe that we can, if I have a legal assessment in the sense that we are at risk of minimum costs, let us conclude the contract. But it certainly won't be this year. It's just 12 years to buy a BVP, and you really think Černochová's gonna sign your contract in six weeks, what's at the resort? Then I'd like to see you. That's what you might think, because you think you'd get rid of me with it! But you can't just get rid of me. Resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure the financing of the strategic project of the acquisition of a belt combat vehicle of infantry from the state budget of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence between 2023 and 2025. Dear colleagues, the Government of the Czech Republic adopted a resolution that is binding on 9 February 2022 when approving the budget, which is important for the next financial years as well, so that we can complete a heavy part-time job by 2026 as we have it in CT and in all strategic documents. We all committed to this as the Czech Republic. So also for this reason, because it is not a blunt cut that we would not want the contract, but only that it is not prepared in bows so that someone can sign it, so at the same time as we voted on the budget, the government agreed to implement a strategic project for the acquisition of a belt combat vehicle of infantry, which is necessary to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic and to meet the allied commitments in the area of military capabilities, whose key component will be a mechanized heavy-type brigade. Secondly, it obliges the Minister of Finance to take into account the need to finance the strategic project referred to in point I of this resolution in Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence in preparation of the draft State Budget Act for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for the years 2024 to 2025. The Minister of Finance will lead. So, Mr. Růžička, don't tell us that our government doesn't want to do anything. Our government wants to realize the purchase of infantry combat vehicles, but in a completely transparent way and in a way that does not burden the budget of the Czech Republic, and thus this event was definitely not in bows. And I've got a whole phone book there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I would just ask you if you would address your colleagues, please, through the President. Thank you. Now with a factual remark, President Schillerová is signed in and Mr Josef Bělica is prepared, and then Mr Pavel Růžička. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u175	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I'm glad, Madam Secretary through Madam Vice-President, that you've acknowledged the reduction in unused claims, because I've really been pushing it very hard all along. It's a good thing you noticed. I'm not going to argue with you about military procurement, because it's not my area, and I don't understand it, but I'm going to ask you more in terms of budget rules and financial aspects. I understand the arguments you're saying. I understand that this will probably not be competitive anytime soon. But the contract has some volume, and it can't be published under budgetary rules unless the volume is guaranteed in the budget, including the following years. You have to have it secured or no one will sign it. I would like to see the official, and I am having a really good time right now from the perspective of budgetary rules that would sign a contract that would not have had cover and would not have been written into the years to come. So either you cancel it completely, that's obviously your competence, which I'm not interfering with. I don't know, and you'll have to ask the experts if it's a violation of any... That's how they always explained it to me, I was discussing the budget not only with the minister, but there was always the Chief of Staff, General Opata, explaining things to me, because of course I argued with them about every billion. And I don't know if it's a breach of commitment, I have a feeling it's some kind of breach of commitment. [[20.30 hours]] Then obviously there is, obviously, I was looking at the number in the budget, slowing the trajectory of raising defense costs in relation to the percentage of GDP. This has slowed down slightly for us, I admit, because of course the covid came and we had other priorities, but now the slowdown is even more pronounced, which of course will delay the fulfillment of the commitment, but we said that this morning. And a little sip, if I have a moment. Of course, I didn't care that we had to put that 10 billion in the budget - our last - in the government's budget reserve. We're in a situation that we're in. We wanted this country to have a budget. I also relied on the handshake from the opposition camp at the time, that it would help to push through, for example, leaving the hall, it did not happen so that we did not have to take the 10 billion, but we knew from the first moment, and so we presented that we would return them, and we did. It happened twice, in January 5 billion and in March 5 billion, but it did not happen that we would take this at all. So I personally think that the contract is simply at risk if its funding is not secured, even in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u176	Time, Madam President... I also thank you for the time being and is now registered with Mr Josef Bělica in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u177	Good evening, Madam President, good evening, ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives of the Government, Madam Secretary. I'd like to ask for one perhaps substantial, perhaps irrelevant thing. I think, and the secretary and I have known each other for a while, that she already knows that let's say the intensity of the voice or that she's gonna yell at us is probably not the right nut. [[Black]] We're not even afraid of it, we're not scared of it. Plus, I think you should say the important thing, you don't have to say everything. I understand my colleague Růžička's concerns, and the former Minister of Finance has already said so for me, but the Bévépáčeks are important to our army. If they are not financially covered in the budget, there is a fear that the project will eventually come to an end. I think the questions are legitimate. I believe, then, that the Minister rather than the personal wave goes into the material one, I would very much like it. I also hope that the army will not be the subject of any political quarrels, but its stability, its quality and the quality of its equipment should be important to us across the political spectrum, and that T-shirt doesn't really matter. I'm quite sorry, Madam Secretary, about how you handled it. I'm quite disappointed in the performance. The only thing I missed in there was Babiš. They've already told all your colleagues before, and that's all I've ever missed. I'm really sorry. Maybe you can add that, but I think that the army should connect us rather than divide us, and I'd really like to get to the issues of the matter and to solve the problems than into some personal invektives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u178	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pavel Růžička, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u179	Madam Secretary, through Madam President, you are absolutely brilliant because you know exactly what I dreamed, what I think you are, so you are in the right place. I don't think you know what I'm thinking. But I've said it in confidence with the government. I wish you all the best to make the two percent and have an army fully operational and fully combatable. You know, I have the advantage of serving until 2009, and I know how, when I wanted to buy a uniform, during your reign, the warehouses were empty, no ballistics, no shirts, no camouflage, no helmets, no helmets, nothing, and under our rule, we managed to make it. You know better than that. So I'd really put it off that personal plane a little bit different, into that material plane. If I have offended you in any way in this speech, I am deeply sorry. And we've always been able to have a momentous time with the four years before, so let's just keep talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with the de facto Minister Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u181	Thank you. Thank you for your apology to Mr Růžička. Thank you. Why - if I were to respond to the words of my other dear fellow Member, Mr Bělica, by your means - my colleague, why didn't your three ministers sign it? You've had the Department of Defense for eight years. We all know we've had it in these documents this long. That's why I quoted here from history, because I think it's important for colleagues to hear here that it's really a contract that didn't exist here on December 18, 2021 when Černochová joined the resort. First of all. You said I'd mention Babiš. I'll mention it, but the exact opposite of what you expect. It's not Babiš's fault. Mr. Chairman of the ANO Babiš movement told me, and I can say it here, because a lot of people have heard that he doesn't understand why Minister Metnar didn't use the word "why didn't he do it this way?" Because if he were in his position, he would have done it in a completely different way, and Mr. Babiš and I agreed on that. The Minister really had a whole range of other options here, he chose the worst. As far as other colleagues are concerned, we've all been talking about bows here, you've heard them, they're said to have already received the documents in the bows by Minister Šlechtová. It's just not in bows. I look forward to working with the Defense Department with the Defense Committee. I'll be very happy to show you all the steps I've been telling you when I'm gonna show them to you and show them to you in the documents so that you can be sure - that no one is really doing anything here that's against the military's interests. [[Time, Madam Secretary!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u182	Thank you for the time being and now, with a factual remark, Mr Bělica has been added. Can I let him in front of you, Minister? [[Minister Stanjura reports that he is registered with preferential rights.]] You're going with priority. Yes, well, thank you. Mr Bělica will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u183	I don't mean any harm, Madam Secretary. Maybe your predecessors felt exactly the same responsibility as you did. I don't know. I never took that ministerial responsibility, you're carrying it now. And I didn't say in my speech that you were doing something wrong. I was just sorry it was always supposed to be about attacking the predecessor. I don't think it's a simple contract, I don't think it's a simple issue, I don't even think it's that easy working with the military on those parameters. We've been discussing this together for a while in the last parliamentary term on the committee, so actually my speech was about that, and I was trying to challenge, maybe I didn't make it clear enough, or it was understood differently, to talk more about the specific things. Because, and I'm happy for you, and I'm happy for our army, too, so that the Bévépéčka can finally make the contract, but she's certainly not easy. So if you're gonna make it, I think it's important that the bee-pee will eventually have the army and can use it. That's important. So let's talk about how to do this. Now there's a cut in the money. I fear, objectively, that it will not be so easy that you will continue to encounter some obstacles, and it may not be just the finances, because the contract is also important for the Czech industry. Even the involvement of the Czech industry is the contract, and if it's over 50 billion, we all know that, and then those Czech companies will lose those contracts, so it will affect the economy of the state. So it's important, I think the debate is legitimate, that we will discuss it both on the committee and on other rounds of budget discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u184	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and now with the de facto Minister Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u185	Thank you. I am sure I agree with my previous speaker that the involvement of the Czech industry is very important. Then I don't know why the memorandum on cooperation with the state enterprise VOP was closed, which is unfortunately not in black numbers, but is in red numbers. At this point, this business was actually an incentive for the European Commission, and I happened to have it on my desk today as a reaction to some old filing six months ago from the point of view of some other steps. At this point in time, if we were to close anything, we could be saved by the European Commission because of this contract. I think that there was also an example of a coincidence from the time of Minister Metnar, it was the purchase of helicopters, which simply cost the Ministry of Defence budget half a billion on the fine of the Office for the Protection of Competition. I just have good will, I'm really trying to get these things out as quickly as I can, so that these steps can be done as quickly as possible, but I'm not the person who would do these things recklessly, he didn't have relevant information from lawyers, what convention this could have for the Czech Republic. We had a NATO meeting, not a summit, but a meeting of ministers, the Minister's office, and I informed them that the tough part-time job is our goal, that we want to meet it by 2026 and that our country will do everything we can to fulfill the so-called C.T.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now with priority rights, Minister Stanjura, Vice-President Skopeček will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u187	Thank you for the floor. A few words about the debate that's been going on in the last few minutes. My colleague, Minister Jana Černochová, spoke only in a matter of fact, has a total of 59 data, where she described, did not say all how it was done. The reaction was to the performance: how come the money isn't there? Well, ask someone else completely. Jana Černochová, in the eight weeks of being a secretary, has performed much more often, much more vehemently in favor of the army than your tichý don, former Defense Minister Mr. Metnar, who avoided the House of Arc, I have always seen him twice a year when he was silent and didn't say anything. Eight years from now, you haven't been able to do it, and you're criticizing Jana Černochová that she didn't make it in eight weeks. That's hypocrisy, that's all. So let's say, Mr Bělica, through Madam President, you are the mayor, if I'm not mistaken, did you have a contract where you ruled out offers and kept applicants? In your era in communal politics? Did you have a contract like that? Have you ever heard of such a procedure? I've never heard of such a stupid procedure before. Never! And I think if you ask the previous mayors that it's exactly the same, and if you ask any mayor or mayor in this room, it'll confirm that they haven't heard such a stupid thing. Put the money in there and sign the contract! Who? Who should we sign with when the Czech Republic does not have a single offer after eight years? After all the resolutions, the committees, I don't know what everything is. We've got nothing! And you say, "Why didn't they send the money?" And why would we send them when we have nothing at all! Ask Mr Metnar when he's here again. Ask him why that's not possible. Jana Černochová clearly quoted the Government's resolution. And then, as a Czech language, he is quite rich, Mr Bělica, through which, when it is your opinion, he cannot be objective but subjective. You said: I'm very worried, and that's an objective fact. Well, that's subjective. You're still worried about something. I've heard about a thousand times today that you're worried. I don't believe you at all. You're not worried. Where have you been for eight years? Why weren't you worried? For Minister Stropnický? Do you remember what Secretary Šlechtová said when she came after him? She said there were contracts she'd never sign, that she didn't want to end up in jail and that she had a closet full of skeletons. Then came Mr. Metnar, handed Jana Černochová two closets full of skeletons. He's just spreading it. And you have subjective concerns. Ask Mr Metnar why it is in the state in which it is today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u188	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Schillerová made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u189	Minister, through Madam President, Madam Vice-President, why are you upset? You've already been in the government, I think my colleagues spoke calmly, and even my fellow Member Růžička has apologized to the Minister, that's okay. I asked a simple question. I'm asking from the budgetary point of view, I'm not interfering with the army. The contract will be canceled? Yes, no. The contract's gonna be published? I understand everything, I don't try. Yes, no. If it is published, it must also be covered under the budgetary rules in the following years. No clerk's gonna sign this, no one's gonna get arrested. That's a simple question. If it's cancelled, it's the secretary's jurisdiction, I'm not involved at all, I'm just asking. Because if it was written out, sometimes, I understand it takes some time, that there are probably problems, I don't understand how big. Otherwise, Mr Metnar is in quarantine, just so you know. He doesn't hang around the house. So that's what I'm asking. If it's cancelled, I understand it has continuity, I've always understood it from General Opata, it has a link to some fulfilment of obligations, and if it's written out, it must have a cover regardless of whether it falls into unused claims. That was my eternal dispute with the Department of Defense. And that's why I forced them to spend unused claims from past years, which you yourself acknowledged, there was a billion there in the fall, and I don't remember it exactly right now, but I would have found it somewhere in the files, so maybe 1.8 billion, which was really withdrawn against the numbers that were in the previous years. That's not a big amount of defense, but they've always explained it to me, and it's so in line with the budgetary rules that the money has to be in bows, even if it's not spent in that year. And I understand that it was delayed, and it upset me, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u190	Thank you. Now with the factual remark of Minister Jana Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u191	Three billion were spent on the Ministry of Defense's budget for covid, so there was only 1.8 billion left in the NNV. Madam former Minister, through Madam Vice-President, you misunderstand me. The contract's been filed. Thanks to Mr. Metnar, the contract has not been canceled. The contract's still in those systems. Only tenders were cancelled. They were not excluded from the tender. So we need to find some way to solve this from the point of view of the transparency of the public tender that went on here in accordance with some public procurement law, and at this point, we know that by not having offers and the price that was actually derived from some assumption, it's old - do you know when? From 2015, Madam President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, through the Vice-President, so there is also a presumption that the prices can be somewhere completely different, and that is the state in which I received it, in the bows. So I really, really, believe me, from the first minute I'm at the resort, I'm dealing with this account, I'm giving it a lot of energy and time. Instead of being able to deal with other things in the resort, which also require time and speed, I spend my time dealing with a contract from my predecessor, which has actually been corrupted from the very beginning and according to the words of the president of your movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u192	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Jan Richter is now duly registered. I'm sorry, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u193	Thank you very much. Good evening, I won't be long, don't worry, I don't have an hour speech ready. I want to comment on some aspects of the budget, then maybe stop at what President Zeman here said. I'm convinced that what we have here today is the maximum possible that in such a short time, we just couldn't make savings higher. I'm also saying that this is just a warm-up to the budgets in the years to come. And it's not just a budget deficit reduction. [[20.50 hours]] I think we're having a little bit of a flat debate here today, and we're just talking about savings in those chapters. But the tasks ahead of the budget are much more general, much more systemic and larger. I think that in the following years, not only will it be necessary to reduce the budget deficit at a relatively large rate in order to stop the debt of the Czech Republic, but it will also need to work to change the structure of the budget. I mean, in particular, the need to reduce the share of today's mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditures. Mandatorial expenditure is involved in state budget expenditure in 2022, this year, about 75 percent. Add to that quasi-mandatory expenditure, it is already 88.2 per cent of the total revenue of the budget. So it can be seen that mandatory and quasi-mandatory spending has taken over the state budget and that space for active fiscal policy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u194	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that the Vice-President remain calm for his comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u195	Thank you, too. So I believe that we will need to make systemic changes in the coming years so that we do not increase the share of quasi-mandatory and mandatorial spending on total income, because the government would be losing the last bit of space for its active...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u196	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Calm down, please. This is the second time I've warned you. If you have any problems, just figure them out outside, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u197	Thank you very much for your attention. I'm gonna try to cut this short so I don't stick around for long. However, I will ask for your attention. So, in addition to the deficit, there is a need to reduce the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenditure, or their share. Of course, this will not be possible without systemic changes, especially in the pension and health system. In addition to the deficit and the structure, there is still a problem, the long-term problem of Czech public finances, or budgetary policy, and this is procyclical fiscal policy, the fact that budgets in recent years in previous governments have deepened recessions or, on the contrary, contribute to the overheating of the Czech economy in times of growth. So the public finance task for the coming years will not be small and it will not only be a reduction in the public finance deficit, but it will be necessary to work on the structure of the spending party and it will need to try not to make fiscal policy contribute to the volatility of the Czech economic cycle. The current government will also have to address the long-term sustainability of public finances. The government often boasts that the share of the government's debt to gross domestic product is low, that it did not increase during their government. He did not increase because, of course, in the previous years, gross domestic product grew relatively rapidly and the share of government debt in gross domestic product remained roughly the same in the ratio indicator, as the debt grew in absolute amount. However, when you look at how economists measure the sustainability of public finances, they measure it in several levels. It measures short-term, medium-term and long-term sustainability. While we are relatively well off in the international context of a whole range of European overdebted countries in the short and medium term, if you look at the long-term sustainability monitored by the European Commission in the context of fiscal monitoring, you will find that we are very, very bad at the long-term sustainability of public finances as one of the worst and most risky countries with regard to public finances. Of course, this has to do with the demographic trend, it has to do with the ageing of society, and it has to do with the fact that our pension and health system is not ready for such a rapid ageing of society. And if we don't want to jeopardize high-quality health care and pensions for an ageing society, for a generation of today's 30s, for 40s, we're really going to have to make very important systemic changes with these public finances. I'm gonna put a little bit of pressure on what Mr. President said. I commend him for that, and I think it's fair that every economist admits color. He admitted the color that he was a Keynesian, and he said that he considered the deficits in recent years, especially in the covid crisis, to be justified because they were increasing economic growth in some way or trying to fight the crisis. I think the argument is odd and it's the wrong application of Keynes' economic theory, because in those previous years or in the covid crisis, aggregate demand did not fall, which John Maynard Keynes wanted to increase fiscal expansion and wanted to meet the lack of aggregate demand. The covid crisis was characterised by the fact that, on the contrary, the supply was frozen and any monetary and fiscal expansion at the time the shops were closed, closed by a number of businesses, could not, of course, help economic growth. As a freedmanovec, as a representative of another economic school, I warn against the use of fiscal policy as an active tool for the smoothing of the cycle or for increasing economic growth, because both theory and reality have shown that while deficits are cutting very easily during those recessions, when the period of economic growth comes, either man or economist is freedman or Keynesian, even in times of growth, these economic deficits are very difficult to reduce, and that fiscal policy contributes to debt growth. I am no longer talking about the fact that there are so-called time lags in fiscal policy, which means, if the government wants to deal with a problem in the economy and wants to adapt its fiscal policy, the time lags that exist from the moment the economic problem is measured and found to be very long after some economic measure at the level of the government or the House has been approved. [[Are they?]] And after all, we also have a school here, a so-called public election school, which says that the goal of politics is to be reelected and that it only adapts to its fiscal policy, which I think if we look at the deficits of public finances that grow regularly during the election period, it is a confirmation of that rule. Therefore, I also believe that the treatment of Czech public finances will not go without what I call the spending rule, which will be part of the fiscal constitution and which will hinder any government, whether right-wing or left-wing, from excessive spending, which does not correspond to economic growth. I believe that we must come up with such an expenditure rule that we must include such an expenditure rule in our fiscal constitution, because I believe that only on the basis of rules based on economic policy makes sense. And the history of the Czech Chamber of Deputies shows that, without some strict rules, deficits will be very difficult to tame. As far as the tax exemptions mentioned by the President here are concerned, I will be very much in favour of abolishing any tax exemptions, because our tax system is indeed one of the most complex in the world. And the administrative costs that taxpayers must bear in connection with paying taxes are internationally very, very high and we must do something about it if we want to do something about the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. However, many of these exceptions, of course, are replacing social policy today, whether it's the discount on the taxpayer or other tax breaks and discounts. I don't think it's bad that they're valorized. We must remember that, for example, the basic discount on the taxpayer has not changed for many years, although inflation in the Czech economy has been rising relatively rapidly. If nothing else, then the inflation, which is close to 10% - and I am not convinced as President that it is only a January phenomenon, I fear it is a much deeper phenomenon - must lead us to act more responsibly in budgetary policy and that this year's exercise, in terms of savings, will actually be preparing for deeper, more pronounced savings and systemic changes in the state budget that we need both for consolidation of public finances and for the Czech economy to fare better. Because you will find very few economies in the world, perhaps none that has destructed finances and economies and people would succeed there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And now Mr Jan Richter, who has been duly applied for, will appear. And just before I give him my word, I have a message. Mr Robert Stržínek votes with replacement card number 11. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u199	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Madam President for saying my name right. Thank you very much. And now I'd like to focus on the draft budget from the point of view of sport, because in the sports environment, I've been moving my whole life. And lately, I've been constantly communicating with various associations and clubs, and I know their needs, and I've known their problems lately, which aren't enough on this soil. Probably even the biggest critic of Andrej Babiš can't doubt in his life that there has been a significant increase in funding for sports during the reign of Andrej Babiš. While in 2016, before the beginning of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's reign, he managed to budget 3.5 billion in sport, so in 2021 it was 10,5 billion. The trend was correct, clear and sporting. The former Minister submitted a draft budget which envisaged nearly 6 billion. It was a realistic proposal, although it was already a bit consolidated, but it met the needs of the sports environment and did not take money from children. It wasn't a gunfight. It's logical. We've had a two-year-long covideo period. Often there is talk of how entrepreneurs, schools, of course health care were affected. But they don't talk so much about sports. Yet it is an area that has been hit enormously by pandemics. The children basically stopped playing sports, and many children did not even return to sport after the pandemic. In doing so, we all know how important it is for us to be able to move our children. Then a second problem added to this, and perhaps even more risky factor for sport, and that is increasing energy. I think that most associations and clubs already have tense budgets at this time, not to mention the provisional, when they don't even know what to expect, set so that the growing energy really threatens their functioning and activity. And how does this government want to deal with this? So what is his recipe for helping unions and clubs? Your recipe from the way I saw it in the draft budget is clear. It's a finance cut. At the same time, sport should be a clear priority. And the government's budget of 2022 is down to 1.3 billion. I don't know if this government realizes that this is the money that will be shown to us many times in ten fifteen years. Currently in the budget is 4.6 billion and this is inadequate and for the future for a sport threatening amount. And I'm sure my fellow paramedics would complement me, and they would agree with me that today we have up to 40 percent of obese children. Do you want to do something about it, government? So please don't start by cutting funding in sports. Of course, I will put forward amendments, and I sincerely believe that the government will reconsider its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u200	Dear Member, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing this meeting. Before I give another word to the next logged in, I'll read the apology. Today, 18. 2. Mr Špičák apologizes from 19:00 until the end of the day. Furthermore, from 19 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Fridrich apologizes. Furthermore, from 20 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Radek Koten apologizes. Next, on the 18th to 19th, Mr Marek Novák apologizes because of illness. Furthermore, from the 18th from 21.00 to the end of the day for family reasons, Mr Karel Tureček apologizes. We will continue with the duly signed up for the general debate. Mr. Jan Richter will now appear and prepare... [[Reaction in the hall that MP Richter was just talking.]] I'm sorry, he wasn't erased. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now appear and prepare Mrs Marie Pošarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will briefly comment on the budget and on its discussion. Thanks to the current government, the Czech Republic is still in the so-called budgetary commission, which means that most ministries cannot make payments for potential investments and purchases because they can only draw one twelfth of last month's budget each month. The SPD does not want the country to continue to manage its budgetary make-up, which is why, as members of the SPD, we are open to its rapid discussion. However, we have a number of serious reservations about the draft budget, and we will therefore make a number of amendments. We also take the view that state budgets should be balanced as far as possible or surplus. We therefore welcome the reduction in the budget deficit. But we also see no sense in why the draft state budget prepared by the previous government was not discussed in the House at the end of last year, when the difference in expenditure compared to the previous budget is only 1.79 %, i.e. 34.5 billion crowns. We reject the proposal that the government wants to save most of the 34 billion on non-teaching workers in schools, police, firefighters, soldiers, and reduce payments for state health insurance workers, reduce fare reductions for students and seniors, and cut investment. At the same time, the current government created three new ministries and created 74 additional jobs for them at the Office of the Government and increased the budget funding in the chapter of the Office of the Government by CZK half a billion year-on-year. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior will have to move again the purchase of new fire trucks for which firefighters have been waiting for long years. We have the biggest energy crisis in modern history. Households are crushed by high inflation and skyrocketed energy prices and mortgage interest. However, the government's draft state budget does not include any general and effective aid for citizens or businessmen. Instead, people are being sent to work offices to beg for alms. Other European countries are taking horizontal measures complemented by those addressed to mitigate the effects of inflation and the increase in housing costs. We certainly do not want to take money from our decent and working citizens, and therefore we will propose a number of transfers in individual chapters of the state budget that would support them in this difficult time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u202	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher is making a point of fact and Mrs Marie Pošarová is preparing herself. Mr. Ambassador, your point of order and two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u203	Thank you. Have a good night. I have a factual remark on my honored colleague Honza Skopeček, whom I listened to in detail in these theories. I really don't understand what he was saying. She's a good theory, and then there's good practice. I'm gonna repeat the numbers again, and I'm gonna say something about it. In 2013, the debt to GDP was 43.3%. In 2021 - it's always at the end of the year - it was 42 percent despite what happened here for two years around the covid. This means debt is lower than GDP. It's always done in proportion, not absolute amounts. That doesn't make any sense. It's always an affair. And now I've learned here that it was economic growth, GDP growth. All right. Well, that's good. If there was a decline, he, and I assume Zbyněk Stanjura, would be the first to criticize that the government was responsible for the decline. And when it's growing, it's like it's going sideways so it doesn't turn out like some positive plus points to the previous government, and it's said, it was because it was growing. I think that's positive. Demand stimulus - that's another thing. Demand Stimulation. What was the stimulation of demand when there was a crisis last time? That taxes went up. While you were in opposition, you were very keen to reduce those taxes. I'm not here to encourage anything but a consistent attitude when we're talking about whether a man is a friedman, or rather a more left-wing economist. Nothing else. And don't let me change my attitude depending on whether I'm in opposition or coalition. That's a brief remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u204	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Mr Vojtěch Munzar is reporting. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u205	I'll be very brief. To your colleague Nacher, through you. Indebted is still indebted. It is nice that you are constantly looking for numbers that fit the YES movement, but simply indebting us in economic growth, it was not the right economic decision. Plus, I have one thing to point out. These were not expenses that can be easily cut from year to year. You guys indebted us systemically. You have constantly increased mandatorial expenses and operating expenses, which are very difficult to cut. And the trends are important. Yes, you inherited a pretty good basis for the economy, which is why economic growth was. But today, today we're in a situation where the debt trend is very fast. I mean, look at how long it's gonna take us to knock down those deficits. So look at the trends because they're important in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u206	Thank you, too. Another factual point is that of Mr Jan Skopeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u207	Thank you for the floor. I will respond through you to an honored colleague. I don't know what she doesn't understand. Just the proportion of debt to gross domestic product can be reduced in different ways. Even when GDP is rising faster than that debt, it is clear that the indicator is decreasing in that percentage. If we break down the debt reduction, we'll find in that period of your government that if anything contributed to it, it was on the one hand a relatively rapid growth of gross domestic product, and on the other hand it was a good management of municipalities and regional budgets. What did not really manifest itself in reducing the debt ratio was the fiscal policy of the government, which, despite economic growth, was cutting relatively high state budget deficits. So look, it's calculated, the numbers exist, I'd be happy to give them to you. In particular, those who participated in stable debt or the small reduction were municipalities, regional budgets, and rapid economic growth. Not your government's fiscal policy. And if you don't want to contradict yourself, on the one hand, when you evaluate economic policy or fiscal policy at the time of the post-crisis 2008, 2009, you cannot criticize us on the one hand that Kalousek has made huge deficits, and on the other hand, that he has strangled the economy too much. That's where you rule out the arguments. That doesn't make sense. Either you have to choose, my colleague, that Kalousek was making huge deficits, or you have to choose that we have strangled the economy. Both options just can't be defended. Solve this logical nonsense in your head.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u208	Thank you. There is no further factual point; in that case, Mrs Marie Pošarová, who is duly applied for, will speak and Mr Karel Haas will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u209	Thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, five-wheelers Petr Fiala presented their draft state budget for this year. The government is increasing public revenue estimates for 2022 by 62 billion -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u210	I apologise, madam, but I will enter into your speech and ask my colleagues, if necessary, to complete the ongoing discussion in the lobby and not to interrupt their discussion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u211	- an estimate of public revenues for 2022 by CZK 62 billion compared to the estimate of Babišův's government. But this may not be a reality in practice. And the reduction in the budget deficit is so roughly half of it is on the water and is more or less fictional. At the same time, the government proposes new spending of CZK 40 billion and cuts around CZK 80 billion in the expenditure proposed by the previous government. And where are her cuts going? The State's contribution to the health insurance of so-called state insured persons, seniors, students, mothers and fathers on parental leave and others is reduced by 14 billion. 4.5 billion is then reduced by the amount of the budgetary reserve to combat the covid. It is an indefensible blow to the ligament of Czech health care and Czech health professionals who have been developing maximum deployment in the fight against the epidemic for two years, and this will clearly and objectively lead to a reduction in the quality and availability of health care. But, of course, the government doesn't spare on itself. Because, among other things, by 74 million compared to Alena Schillerová's proposal, she's increasing the government's budget. The Ministry of Transport's budget is reduced by 9 billion, where the funds for maintenance of roads and railway lines are reduced senselessly, and where the fare in public transport for students and pensioners will also be increased due to a significant reduction in discounts on this fare. The volume of investment in transport infrastructure is also decreasing by CZK 7.5 billion. This is counterproductive in terms of the future of mobility and economic development. The reduction of the budget to so-called regional education, which is a need for primary and secondary schools, is also considered by CZK 4 billion. For example, this includes the abolition of planned increases in the salaries of teachers and non-teaching workers. The reduction of the Czech Post budget by 1.5 billion will lead to an increase in postal services prices for citizens, with a public service in the public interest. In turn, reducing the amount of funding for unemployment aid and re-training for citizens actively seeking work may lead to these citizens resigning from their job-seeking activities and prefering long-term use of uninsured social benefits. It is catastrophic to plan to reduce the amount of funds intended to contribute to the care of the disabled by almost one billion crowns. Drastic reduction of the already very low support of severely disabled people dependent on ever-expensive care and assistance services, including residential services, is totally antisocial and will lead to a reduction in the quality of life of these people and their health. In this context, it is then a complete mockery to citizens, not only to those disabled, of the planned increase in contributions to the European Union budget by a total of CZK 2 billion, without any reason and authority, in a situation where the Czech public funds need to be directed exclusively to decent and working Czech citizens whose standard of living is falling due to enormously rising energy prices, food and other basic living needs. For most of our modern history, the thinking of our nation's economics included gentleness. Working and saving was the motto of the legendary minister Alois Rašín. The path to the long-term stabilisation of public budgets is not to raise taxes, but primarily to focus on their spending side. The deficit of the state budget arises and increases and accumulates when public expenditure is repeatedly and over the longer term higher than public revenue. We can therefore stabilise the budget either by reducing expenditure or by increasing revenue. However, these two ways are certainly not morally equivalent. If we raise taxes, we say that the state knows better than working citizens how to handle the money they've earned. So it is about giving more and more power to the state and its institutions at the expense of human freedom and freedom of decision-making by citizens. On the contrary, reducing expenditure would allow for a fairly rapid detection and minimization of all necessary and non-productive agendas so far financed from public money. There is, of course, no other way than to reduce the expenditure of the state budget sharply in areas that are not related to mandatorial spending, public services that citizens pay for their taxes, and the care of vulnerable groups of people, pensioners, disabled people, families with children and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u212	Madam, thank you for your contribution to the general debate. And now, Mr Karel Haas will come forward and be prepared by Mr Jan Síla. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u213	Mr President, thank you very much, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start with two promises. First, I'll start positive, that's the first promise. Secondly, I will maintain that we are at the first reading of the draft state budget, which means I will not talk about one specific budget chapter. So fulfilling the first promise - I'll start positive. After the three difficult ones, I'm gonna say it this way, like, greasingly, the previous days, and I think it's been hard for all of us, so imagine that I'm happy with today's debate across this House from my left hand to my right hand. Because the debate is finally right and political over the key law of the year. Why do I say right political? Our government defends, supports a good draft state budget, the opposition legitimately beats the wrong draft state budget. And that's how it's supposed to be. And I would say, and that concludes the really positive promise that those poachers, and you can see that I'm saying it again with the gentlest word that came to my mind, and now from all sides, I think it was completely politically acquitted to the parliament of a democratic country. Here's the thing. I will say five key main reasons why, as a coalition Member, I support a well-prepared draft state budget, and I will try either to give a specific number as an example of the argument or a reference to an authority that may be indisputable. First reason. We are turning the helm, turning the trend into, say, an unacceptable or long-term unsustainable fiscal policy from previous years. Here I am referring to you, I have promised these authorities, the first opinion of the National Budget Council of the Government on the draft state budget of 11. 2. and I assume that none of us will be the three highly respected members of the National Budget Council of the Government, two of which were elected in January 2018, Ms. Professor Zamrazilová and Professor Pavel, third, Mr. Ing. We chose Hampl in this House not long ago, so I assume none of us are questioning their erudists. Second reason. Our government is ending what has happened in previous years, which means - and now I say that in quotation marks - to pump up inflationary money into the economy. Inflationary in the sense that the volume did not correspond to the real performance of services, production and work in the Czech economy. I'll try to refer to the facts again, the facts are simple, I refer to the presentation of the Ministry of Finance from January 6th, I suppose you've all perceived the presentation, and I think the facts in the presentation from January 6th, 1. t. r. are indisputable in this respect. Third reason. For many years, our government brings not cosmetic but significant savings in the state budget. Those savings were falling in the good sense of poking around here, in the debate about their size. I take the view that the savings in the range of CZK 77 billion are indisputable, are worked out and are real. Again, I think, and I can refer, in this sense, to the initial position of the National Budget Council of the Government, that it is necessary to do so, in turn, a specific number, that the state begins with the defatting cortex itself, see CZK 13 billion saved in the operating expenditure of the state. In operating expenses of the state. [[There's noise in the room.]] Fourth reason. Despite the savings I mentioned, the budget is to the maximum possible extent, we would all like better, as far as possible for investment. The draft investment in the budget is worth CZK 203 billion, rounding up. Compared to 2021, compared to the plan for 2021, when the plan was CZK 189 billion, the real investment was CZK 176 billion, it is an increase, I round again, without tenths, by CZK 27 billion. And the last, fifth reason. Despite the savings, reason ad three, despite the proinvestment, reason ad four, the budget is definitely not antisocial. Let me give you a few more examples. I'm not gonna do the poking now that I say the government's raising pensions. I will say it is not antisocial, because of course it envisages the statutory valuation of pensions in the range of CZK 21 billion, it envisages a contribution to housing due to an energy crisis of CZK 3 billion, with compensation to entrepreneurs in the range of three or government modified CZK 5 billion, counting on CZK 850 million for private and church schools...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u214	Ambassador, I'm sorry, after all, I respect that it is late at night, but the negotiations are still under way, so I'm going to ask you to keep the discussion quiet, or move you to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting close to the end. I wanted to mention as a government MP, as it should be in the democratic debate, five understandable reasons for the first reading to support the draft state budget. If I wanted to end lightly again, I wish the Minister of Finance, I see him in the hall, he listens honestly, by your means, Mr President, listens closely to the whole debate and I appreciate it - many words have been said here today about blunt cuts. So, Minister of Finance, I wish you a sufficiently sharp pencil in the preparation of this already politically manuscript draft state budget for 2023. Thank you, and I believe I have fulfilled my briefness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u216	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka is signed up with a point of fact and Mr Jan Síla will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u217	Thank you very much. I am only at my honourable colleague, Mr Haas, through yours, Mr President. Of course, this government cannot be social or antisocial in terms of valorizing those pensions, because it is simply due to the law. And even if you wanted a thousand times, fortunately, you can't back off. If you were social, maybe you'd increase it a little bit more, because it's all seniors who are waiting for the future to get more energy, more housing, more food, more medicine. Natural gas - 24 %, electricity - 19 %, food, bakery products - 9,4 %. These are all figures that are included in January inflation in order to increase old-age pensions by 8.8%. So luckily it's due to the law, you can't move. And you guys would be cool if you increased it even beyond this legal valorization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u218	Thank you, too. A factual comment by the Minister of Finance follows. Please, your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u219	I won't even need two minutes. First, the ODS passed the law. Secondly, do not keep talking incompetently about how the drugs are going to get expensive. There are legal limits on supplements for medicines that do not depend on the total price. The limits are still the same. If someone pays more, they get it back from the health insurance company. So please don't ever use this argument again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u220	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Jan Síla will speak in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u221	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to delay Friday after a long week in this advanced period, but I will not forgive myself for mentioning at least a brief mention of the health chapter in the draft budget for this year. I understand that the coronavirus pandemic has indirectly caused a disproportionate increase in government debt, but I would like to point out a few moments that it actually revolves around it, but unfortunately I feel that it's a little bit back. Debts should be paid instead of eating through our future. The budget proposal 2022 reduces the influx of funds into health care. It is hard to understand why it saves itself on health care, which is long-term underfunded and which faces difficult to solve problems such as lack of health care personnel, uneven availability of health care and currently solves and will still address the coronavirus failure of common health care, mainly orthopaedic, these are the heartbeats, replacements of artificial clubs, and so on, and oncological operatives. Most of the money to health isn't from the state budget, it's from public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u222	I apologise, Mr Member, but again I must lead you, Members, to discipline and I ask you to keep the discussion down in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u223	Thank you. The budget shall cover insurance premiums for seniors, children, unemployed or prisoners. It increased three years in a row and the former government planned another increase of CZK 200 to CZK 2,176 per month per insured person. As Minister Válek has already announced to the directors of health insurance companies, payments for state insurance companies will be CZK 200 higher according to the original draft budget only until March of this year. From April this year this value will be reduced again to the original, which was last year, that is to say CZK 1 976. The state against the original draft budget will save about CZK 14 billion. [[Noise in the hall, very poor hearing.]] Last year's public health insurance revenues increased by 96 billion, i.e. by more than 29 percent, compared to 2019, before the pandemic of coronavirus. For years, funds flowing to health care in the Czech Republic have been around 7,5 percent at an average value in the European Union of less than 10 percent, while at comparable levels of health services. Last year, for the first time, the share of GDP increased to a total of 8,8% in health care. I thought after many years...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u224	I'm sorry. Colleagues at the rapporteur's table and the petitioner really bring your debate into the lobby and do not disturb the one who speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u225	Finally, after so many years as hospital directors had to answer to their subordinate chiefs: there is no money that this situation would improve. According to some insurance companies, it will also not be possible to increase health care payments for the next year, because the system is currently on the edge. This year, expenditures are planned for almost 441 billion. Moreover, in 2022, this year, health care is facing the most extensive changes in health care payments in the last 15 years. Patients have been expecting a large number of changes since January because the key pillars of Czech health care will change from this date: the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, the new performance tariff and the new payment decree. All these three documents direct the flow of public health insurance money. Through them, the state determines what will be paid to, to whom, how much or how often. Although both the remuneration decree and the performance tariff change every year, the fact that their adjustments would meet with the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act is exceptional. I hope that at least partially reverses the abolition of the valorisation of payments for state insured persons, but we are aware in the SPD that solving the deep health problems will require significantly more serious systemic changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u226	Ambassador, thank you for your attention, too. And since the final vote is very likely to come, I will ask you, honourable Members, to take your seats in your benches. Anyway, for the sake of order, before I conclude the general debate, I ask whether anyone is reporting to the general debate. Please, Mrs. Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u227	Thank you for the floor. I promise I'll be very brief. We've had almost all day except for the shorter interruption on other points when we were discussing the first reading of the state budget. I'm glad it did. I would like to remind you that the ANO movement tried to come up with constructive proposals to allow for three days and two nights of the pandemic law to be over, and that negotiations on the state budget would be threatened, so that it would actually take place today, because it is important. This is important in order to end the longest budgetary provisional in this country's history. This means that it will be good if the budget goes further in the legislative process, although of course you understand, given all the reservations that the representatives of the ANO movement had, that we cannot support it. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I'm not going to repeat the arguments I made during this day or what my colleagues have said. Let me just remind you of a few numbers that are very alarming and unstoppable to us by any possible support for this budget. It is in particular a chapter of the Ministry of Health - a reduction of 19 billion, including payments for state insured persons amounting to 14 billion, which is not regulated. Department of Defense - decrease in spending by 5.4 billion. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - an increase, but only by 17 billion, although 21 will valorize pensions and, of course, add 3 billion to energy poverty. That means it goes much deeper into this chapter. Ministry of the Interior - decrease in expenditure by 3.2 billion. Ministry of Industry and Trade - decline by 6.5 billion. The Ministry of Transport - a decrease of 9 billion, with a subsidy of 7.5 billion to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. Department of Agriculture - about 3.5 billion. Ministry of Education - by 5.2 billion. Ministry of Culture - about 921 million. Department of Justice - 1.8 billion. National Sports Agency - 1.3 billion. And so on, of course, I didn't mention smaller chapters. It's something that's gonna catch up with us, put our problems away for the future, sign on the economy, and sign on people. However, we are prepared to prepare a number of amendments for second reading. We will defend them, we will comment on them, and we will try to convince the government, or the members of the government camp, to accept at least some of them, because this would reduce the effects of these brutal cuts. Anyway, when the Public Health Insurance Act arrives here, we point out that the debate around him will be very long. We have tried, our government, to make sure that health care has as much money as possible, precisely because it has been struggling with covid, and precisely to prevent further treatment from being restricted, which must be available and free of charge for all citizens. So this will also be a big problem and a great burden on this budget. Still, I say again, let this country have a bad budget rather than stay in the budget provisional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u228	Thank you, too. I am now addressing the rapporteur, because before I close the general debate, it is important that you give the budget committee resolution number in the general debate, which I will then vote on. It is not that you are reading the whole motion for a resolution, only a number is sufficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u229	Yes, thank you for your word. There was no counter-proposal to return, so we will only vote on the draft budget committee. And now, therefore, the draft budget committee contained in its resolution No. 46. If you don't mind, I won't read it any further, I've read it all in the introduction, and I'll allow myself to refer to its wording. I will read the main: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 according to the House press 144" Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u230	I thank you, too, and this concludes the general debate. I will now give the final word to the Minister of Finance. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u231	Thanks for the word. The final word will be very short. Thank you for the first reading debate. I will end my final word with the same request as I ended my opening speech, my opening word. At this point, I would like to ask, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, Members to support the proposed resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-18-ps2021-011-01-002-002.u232	Thank you, too, Minister. I want to ask the rapporteur's final statement. Do you want to take the final word? It's not like that. I will sum up the general debate. There have been no proposals, no proposals for recasting, and so on, that is, we will vote directly on the motion for a resolution, as has been said in the general debate. First of all, I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Log in with your voting cards... I think our numbers are stable. And now I will vote on the resolution, as has been said in the general debate. It is a resolution of the Committee on Budgets. 46 of 16 February 2022 to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2022. Is there a request for me to read the resolution, or do we know what we are voting on? We know what we're voting on. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 6, 174 Members of Parliament registered, for 103, against 1. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. [[Let's hear it for the Coalition MPs.]] [[21.40 hours]] Colleagues and colleagues, before I officially close this meeting, allow me to thank both the Chancellor and all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies and the Security Service for all of us... [[Present rise, applause in the hall.]] ... who really deserved our thanks and accompanied us and ensured smooth conduct during all nights. That's how we discussed the programme, and I'm done with this meeting. I remind you that we will meet on Tuesday 22 February 2022 at 10 a.m. when the 12th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. Thank you, I wish you a peaceful evening and a peaceful journey to your homes to your families. Thank you.
