ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-14-ps2021-032-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 32nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to rejoin your ID cards, if you have already done so, or to tell me who is asking for a replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 106 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday 7 July this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Members of Tom Philipp. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? [[There's noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to keep your voice down first. Log in with the ID cards so we can have... and we already have the necessary kvorum. We will therefore proceed now, because there has been no other proposal for the designation of verifiers, to vote on the appointment of the verifiers of this meeting by Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tom Philipp. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number one, 101 Members and Members have signed up for 99, against none. The motion was accepted. And I note that we have designated the 32nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Tom Philipp. I declare that until the beginning of the meeting, the Martin of the meeting, the whole of the working day, the whole of the working day, the whole of the working day, the whole of the working day, the whole of the working day, Oldřich Pavel for the whole of the Krejza Levko, for the Jarmila of the Kohajda day, Benda Marek for the whole of the Lochman Němečková, Benešík Mádlová for the whole of the Ivana Věra, the whole of the Vildumetzová Bureš, Berkovcová Jana for the whole of the Věra day for the whole of the health Mračková, Dostálová Klára for the whole of the Patrik day, for the whole of the Metnar day, for the whole of the Hájek Jiří, for the whole of the Lubomír day, Brázdil the Havel of the working day, Bernard Josef for the whole of the medical reason, Dražilová Lenka for the whole of the working day, for the Krutáková of the Jana reason, Dufek Aleš for the whole of the family Vojtěch, Dvořák Jaroslav all of the whole of the whole of the case, for the case for the Ivan of the whole of the Oborná of the case, Fritrech, for the whole day, for the whole of the Monika of the whole of the whole of the case, for the case, Jáč the Heller of the Šimon of the case, for the whole of the Stanislav, for the Milan of the whole of the whole of the whole of the Matěj of the Ondřej of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case, of the Pastuchová, of the case-law, of the Martin of the case, of the whole of the case-law of the major of the case of the case-law, of the whole of the case-law, of the case-law, of the whole of the whole of the case-law, of the whole of the Klíma of the Pavel of the case-law of the case-day, of the case-law, of the case-law, of the case-law, of the case-law of the case-law of the whole of the Fridrich of the Michael of the whole of the case-law of the whole of the whole of the whole Jana all day - working reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava all day for family reasons, Potůčková Lucie all day for family reasons, Pražák David all day for work reasons, RatiborskRatiborský Michal whole day - family reasons, Rozvoral Radek all day - personal reasons, Staněk Pavel for the whole day for personal reasons, Svoboda Bohuslav for the whole day for family reasons, Šebelová Michaela all day for work - working reasons, Šimek David all day for Wenzl Milan - working reasons, Špičák Julius from 15 to 21 hours - without giving reason, Štefanová Iveta whole day for health reasons, Tureček Karel whole day for medical reasons, Válková Helena whole day for medical reasons, Vech Radovan whole day for medical reasons, vlček Lukáš whole day for medical reasons - medical reasons, Volný Jan until 12 hours for health reasons, Vomáčka Vít whole day - working reasons - working days, Vondrák Ivo all day for medical reasons, Wenz And yet, Mr Roman Bělor's apology has arrived between 12 and 15 hours for work reasons, and Mrs Taťána Malá between 15.30 and 21.00, respectively. until the end of the day, for family reasons. The members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš throughout the day for health reasons, Blažek Pavel all day - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna whole day - working reasons, Jurečka Marian within 12 hours - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 12.15 to 14 hours for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan within 14 hours - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole day - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek the whole day for working reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 28 June, by decision No 31, I extended the situation of legislative emergency on the basis of a proposal from the Government until 29 July. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on the terms and conditions of business and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, House press 259. By decision number 32, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing, ordering the House press to discuss 259 to the Economic Committee and setting an unstoppable deadline for the submission of the resolution by 9.30 p.m. today. [[11.10 hours]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, pursuant to § 99 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. So I'm opening a debate that I don't see anyone logged in to. Therefore, if no one is still reporting to the debate, I will end the debate and we will proceed directly to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I am opening the vote on this resolution. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number two, 120 were registered, for 118, against no one. The motion was accepted. Therefore, we are discussing further in a state of legislative emergency. One more apology, Mr Jiří Mašek for the whole day for health reasons. We will therefore now proceed to the establishment of the 32nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the programme already approved. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 32nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3 registered 122 present, for 114, against 1. The proposal was adopted and the agenda was approved. We will therefore now proceed to the discussion of item number 1 of the already approved agenda in the shortened negotiations.
