ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-005-067.u1	67. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the World Postal Union Act signed at the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union, held in Addis Ababa from 3 to 7 September 2018, and at the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union, which took place from 24 to 26 September 2019 in Geneva /German press 92/ - Second reading I'm going to ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela for an introduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-005-067.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has been presented for the second time in the ratification process with the aim of expressing the approval of the Chamber of Deputies with the ratification of the World Postal Union Act of the SPU, adopted at the extraordinary Congresses of the SPU in Addis Ababa in 2018 and Geneva in 2019. During the previous term of office, the Chamber of Deputies did not open negotiations on this material, submitted by the Government in August 2020. Since you have already dealt with these treaties in January of this year, at first reading and subsequently in the Foreign Committee, I would like to remind you very briefly that the SPU Act is a multilateral international treaty governing the functioning of this intergovernmental international organisation included in the UN system, which has 192 member countries. In particular, it lays down rules on postal services between the postal administrations of the Member States, i.e. the conditions for the exchange of letters, parcels and postal orders, liability in the event of loss and damage to consignments and so on. [[11.20 hours]] The SPUs are regularly revised by the highest body, which is the SPU Congress, which usually meets every four years. However, relatively complex developments in recent times, when, for example, the United States of America threatened to withdraw from the SPU, led to two extraordinary congresses being convened in 2018 and 2019. The output of both of these congresses is changes and additions to individual contracts, which are now presented to the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the form of so-called supplementary protocols. The SPU Act was signed by the Czech Republic at both extraordinary congresses subject to their ratification. With the content of the Act, the Government agreed with its resolution in July 2020 and again in December 2021. Practical fulfilment of the content of the Act is entrusted in the Czech Republic by the Czech Post, a state enterprise, on the basis of the Postal Services Act, which imposes on the holder of the postal license, inter alia, to provide international postal services in accordance with the SPU Acts. The texts of the SPU Act, which are annexed to today's House press, do not cause any complications for the Czech Republic. There are also no new claims on the state budget. After discussing this press on 3 February of this year, the Foreign Committee recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify the SPU Act, and also the Senate of Parliament in March, I would ask you, honourable Members, to support this agreement with your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-005-067.u3	I also thank you for putting the press on the table and asking for a seat at the rapporteur's desk. I now ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 92/1. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-005-067.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, as has already been said, the Foreign Committee dealt with this press at its 5th meeting on 3 February. The minister said the essential things, I will just add to the basic thing that caused the two extraordinary meetings to take place, and why the US threatened to resign. Of course, this postal union also brings together a kind of compensation system for receiving parcels in its territory of Member States and some states, such as the United States, but also the Czech Republic, become such a forced payer that it has a high import of small packages or packages from China, for example, and that is why these extraordinary congresses were to be settled. I will now introduce you to the resolution of the Foreign Committee which we adopted at the 5th meeting: "After the justification of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade of Engineer Petr Oček, report by Mr Jaroslav Bžoch and after the debate by the Foreign Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the World Postal Union Act signed at the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union held in Addis Ababa from 3 to 7 September 2018 and the extraordinary Congress of the World Postal Union held in Geneva from 24 to 26 September 2019; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.'; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-005-067.u5	We also thank you for presenting the news report. I am opening a debate in which I do not have one registered or any other, which is why I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? No. So we will proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has just presented. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the resolution? Who's against it? In vote number 94 registered 147 present, for 137, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank both the petitioner and the rapporteur and conclude on this point. Let's go to the point
