ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u1	12. Government proposal for a law on restrictive measures against certain serious acts applied in international relations (Sanction Act) /German press 256/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the government, Minister Michal Šalomoun will present the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor. And before I give you my word, I will read an apology, Mr Dvořák apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the day for medical reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present the Government's proposal for a law on restrictive measures against certain serious international negotiations, in short a draft sanction law. In the programme statement, the government undertook to submit a draft law sanctioning gross human rights violations, i.e. the equivalent of the so-called Magnit Law, by the end of 2023. However, Russia's unprecedented situation caused by armed conflict has greatly accelerated the preparation of this law and we are therefore presenting it now. The proposed sanction law pursues two main objectives. First of all, it lays down still missing legal rules for the submission of proposals by the Czech Republic to lists of sanctioned entities under the sanctions regimes of the European Union. In a number of other cases, it introduces a national penalty list through which sanctions can be re-established on subjects who commit serious infringements in an international context, such as human rights or terrorism, at national level. By creating this legal basis for targeted national restrictive measures, the ability of the Czech Republic to promote its foreign and security policy will be strengthened, in particular in cases where the restrictive restriction cannot be achieved at European Union level or if its approval is lengthy, or if the purpose of the inclusion of entities in the European penalty list is being thwarted or threatened. The adoption of its own national restrictive measures constitutes complementary to the proposals for inclusion in the European Union's penalty lists, as it can be assumed that the application of restrictive measures by the European Union as a whole will have substantially more significant impact on the entity. However, the national penalty list must still be viewed as an important instrument through which the Czech Republic will be able to sanction those who violate or undermine international peace, security, human rights, democracy and other fundamental protected values within its foreign and security policy and are not yet on the European Union's penal list. This purpose is defined in the first provision of the proposed sanction law and should also serve as a basic interpretational aspect in its implementation. Sanctioned entities may be both natural or legal persons and bodies or entities which have no legal personality or which are difficult to verify such fact, such as armed separatist groups. The Czech Republic is bound by the relevant regulation of the European Union when defining the applicable act, so it can sanction the negotiations in these regulations and cannot, on the contrary, affect other acts. Therefore, not only active acts, but omissions or other facts, can be a Sancionable act if the European Union rules link the possible application of such sanctions to them. As regards the actual implementation of sanctions against the entities listed in the national penalty list, it is proposed to follow the Act on the implementation of international sanctions as amended last Thursday, which was approved in the procedure of Section 90 at first reading. Among other things, this amendment complements the existing catalogue of sanctions and introduces their application in the case of registration of entities in the national penalty list. The process of listing the entities in the relevant penalty list can be described as follows: The proposal for inclusion in the European Union penalty list is submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after consulting the selected institutions and bodies and subsequent inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, to the Government. The proposal shall be submitted only if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obtains qualified information on the fact that the entity concerned has committed or is guilty of acts subject to the applicable law of the European Union, has not yet been included in the list of the European Union, and if this is in the foreign policy interest or security interest of the Czech Republic. Subsequently, the Government will decide by resolution on the submission of a proposal for the inclusion of the entity concerned in the penalty list of the European Union and, where appropriate, its inclusion on the national penalty list, assessing the possible impact of its decision on the foreign policy or security interest of the Czech Republic, the fulfilment of obligations arising from membership of the European Union, economic security and, where appropriate, other relevant facts in terms of security of the Czech Republic or internal public order. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall process and submit a proposal for inclusion in the European Union penalty list without undue delay and shall, where appropriate, make an entry on the national penalty list. Similarly, proposals for the exclusion of the entities concerned shall be made in one of the penalty lists or in a proposal for a modification of such inclusion. [[14.20 hours]] The draft sanction law also regulates the elements of registration, the conditions under which it is abolished, removed or amended, the remedies of the persons concerned, the protection of classified information and the synergies of the competent authorities of the Czech Republic. Complicated international situations, persistent unprecedented violations of international law, violations of human rights and freedoms and ongoing war aggression, these are the reasons for the urgency of the adoption of the sanction law. The Government's proposal is for the Chamber of Deputies to agree with him at first reading. As President Schillerová has been informed that she is likely to veto this proposal, then we are at least inclined to decide on this proposal as soon as possible. The international community as a whole, as well as individual states, needs to act with sanctions to end, or to discourage acts of instability in the world, evil and human suffering. Following the adoption of the proposed sanction law, the Czech Republic will join countries that have already adopted similar legislation in Europe, such as France, Latvia or the Netherlands. At the same time, the Czech Republic will be the first Central European country to have such a law. Therefore, I ask you to support the proposal and agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Marek Ženíšek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Much of this has already been said by the appellant. I would therefore like to present the rapporteur's report very briefly. The aim of this government bill is to strengthen the ability to promote the foreign and security policy of the Czech Republic, through the introduction of its own penalty list or the possibility of inclusion on the penalty list of the European Union at the initiative of the Czech Republic or to join the penalty list of another Member State of the European Union. Currently, the Czech Republic lacks the legal regulation of the procedure for the inclusion of entities that have committed or have committed acts subject to the relevant regulation of the European Union on the penalty list of the European Union at the initiative of the Czech Republic. There are also no legal rules for the adoption of national restrictive measures against the entities concerned prior to their inclusion on the European Union list of penalties, or before submitting a proposal from the Czech Republic to the European Union, or for the adoption of such measures to a different extent and the related regulation of its own national penalty list. It should be noted here that the proposed national mechanism is designed as complementary in relation to international and Union sanctions mechanisms and is designed to comply with them. In view of the urgency of the legislation in question, in particular with regard to armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, in view of the sanctions adopted by the European Union, it is desirable to adopt the proposed sanction law as soon as possible. Therefore, the applicant's proposal to give consent to the proposed legislation in the first reading. The proposal thus responds firstly to the current international situation in which the application of restrictive measures has increased in importance in the foreign policy of democratic countries, and secondly addresses the long-term lack of legislation in the Czech legal environment. Furthermore, it should be stressed that the proposed law does not itself impose any sanctions, it has basically procedural content and restrictive measures are defined by the relevant European Union legislation and the law on the implementation of international sanctions. To conclude, the Czech Republic will not be the only Member State of the European Union - the appellant has already spoken about this - who will have its own national penalty mechanism. With certain content and scope differences, it has already been introduced, for example, by France, the Netherlands, Latvia or Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now opening up a general debate and asking whether anyone is reporting to the general debate. prosit, President Schillerová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I have announced that - and now I will say this on a microphone - on behalf of the ANO Clubs and the SPD movement I am putting the veto on the agenda under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Let me justify it. It is not a veto - at least I speak for the YES movement - of political protest. There is no political protest. We are prepared to support the idea and the legislative proposal politically, but we do not want to discuss this under Section 90 for the simple reason that we believe that the proposal needs to be discussed in detail. We will probably try - in cooperation, we want to work together - to prepare some amendments. I will certainly suggest that this press be included in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, because I believe that it is not enough to discuss, with all due respect, in the Foreign Committee, that it simply wants to discuss it in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I'm a member myself, so I'm definitely gonna be a part of it. I will base my comments - these are not just my comments, these are the comments of the experts of our club, members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Of course, we're going to study this even more deeply, so think of it as our initial opinion. And so let me say a few things that we have to say. [[14.30 hours]] As stated in Section 1 of this draft law, the law provides for a procedure for the submission of proposals for the inclusion of entities against whom restrictive measures should be applied, namely sanctions, to the EU penalty list or to the national penalty list. Although, according to this proposal, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs merely proposes - I merely quote - to the government the inclusion of a particular entity, both natural and legal persons on the relevant penalty list, thus the entity does not have the executive authority to include it in the Union or national list, only the government has the last arbitrary in this regard. Well, we think there's too much competence, but we're ready for the debate to hear your arguments. And we see several pitfalls. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall submit to the Government a proposal for the inclusion of the entity in the national penalty list before submitting a proposal for its inclusion in the European Union penalty list if there is a danger of a failure to fulfil the purpose for which the entity is to be included in the sanction list of the European Union. This is therefore a possible inclusion of the entity in the national list before the EU itself assessed the inclusion of the entity in the relevant penalty list. However, we believe that this is contrary to the claim made in the explanatory memorandum that it is only a complementary and complementary mechanism for Union instruments. Paragraph 9 of the draft law - I continue - states that the sanctioned entity may lodge a reasoned objection in writing against its registration on the national penalty list. However, this objection is submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the same body, which also decides on the relevant proposal to the Government for the inclusion of the entity in the penalty list. In the event of an objection, it would be desirable for other, impartial bodies to be involved in the submission and handling of objections. Because here, I think it's hard to expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make a positive decision when it proposed the inclusion of the entity itself on the national list. For the next one. According to Article 14 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following conditions shall apply: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall, at its request and within the time limit laid down by it, provide the public authorities with the necessary assistance in the exercise of the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, this period may not be less than three working days under the draft law, unless this is a synergy which must be provided without delay. In principle, it can be encountered in practice that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will set a deadline for the shortest possible, three working days or none. This is, in view of the seriousness of the proposal, such as the proposal by the Government of the Czech Republic to include the entity in the relevant penalty list, a very dangerous time limit, which may give the MZV an objective option to propose entities essentially immediately and without a time limit to that list. In Article 16 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: It is stipulated that information processed or related to the activities of state authorities under this draft law, unless the information provided in the national penalty list is provided, is not provided. In accordance with the explanatory memorandum, point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 provides for the exclusion from the general right to information, which is the only and completely insufficient justification of the applicant for restricting the guaranteed right to information under the special law. The explanatory memorandum then states that the draft sanction law is a complementary instrument to Union instruments, with its use being made only in connection with the submission of proposals by the Czech Republic and other Member States of the European Union to include the entities concerned in one of the EU lists. At the same time, it states that the national penalty mechanism submitted is proposed as complementary, I repeat, in relation to international and Union sanctions mechanisms and is designed to comply with them. However, the European Commission expressed doubts as to the compatibility of the national restrictive measures taken to achieve the objectives of the common foreign and security policy with the internal market rules, namely the freedoms of the free movement of capital and services. It's a position sometime from 2019. The whole proposal to introduce national law can thus be contrary to EU law. This means that there is a doubt as to whether it is not the EU's exclusive competence. Of course, there are a number of other questions that I could continue to read here, which we are asking ourselves. I'm not saying we can't get answers from you, but we don't think we can get them today. We think that we really want a debate in detail on the committee, expert, to assess this from all these angles. Therefore, I repeat once again, I give the veto on behalf of two clubs, the ANO movement and the SPD movement, to discuss in accordance with Section 90, and I propose that this press be included in the discussion of the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u7	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just follow up on President Schillerová, why it's a veto on behalf of Club YES and SPD. Yes, in principle, it is as President Schillerová says. We, too, would like to get involved in the sense that we're going to discuss this a little deeper. And in our country, it is our MP Jaroslav Bašta, who is an expert on these matters. So that is why we would also like this to be discussed in detail in those committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u9	Thank you. I see a point of fact here. Mr. Hayato Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that behind the jungle of the sections and such complex legal problems, we should not forget those suffering people who are suffering in dictatorships right now, the authoritarian regimes, whether they are Ujguř in Sinjiang, China, the people of Hong Kong who think democratically and are being condemned and imprisoned for that, the people in North Korea and unfortunately the other and other states of our world, where democracy is certainly not simply victorious. But rather on the world stage, we observe such a difficult struggle between societies that respect the dignity of each individual person and his freedom on the one hand and those dictatorial, authoritarian regimes that do not respect the dignity of the individual person at all. So, of course, if the proposal is vetoed, we'll take it on vacation over the holidays. I also appreciate the fact that I'm actually getting approval here. This is a law that allows the right way to punish prominents of such undemocratic regimes, who are proven to be involved in the severe repression of human rights. When sanctions are introduced by the general, unfortunately - for example, economic, national - this will affect not the prominent but the ordinary population. But it is the Magnitský law that is such a tool to put pressure on, the opinion of democratic countries, us in the Czech Republic too, those who commit these crimes. So they can't buy real estate from us so they can't have bank accounts with us so they can't travel to us freely. So I want to remind you of this. Yes, it's also correct to say that it's about time. That, in fact, every week when such a law is postponed, it may cause more suffering for specific people. It's kind of abstract, but it's a fact. So thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Eva Decroix has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u12	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I am merely allowing myself to react briefly with regard to the veto now being raised, and also with regard to the fact that this law is indeed a priority, given - there is still a war going on, we need that, in the course of an investigation to which both the International Criminal Tribunal and Eurojust and, in general, the entire European Commission are now calling for investigations to be conducted not only in Ukraine but also in our country. And it is more or less likely that as a result of this investigation, we can actually find, identify those persons we need to put on the penalty list. [[14.40 hours]] I thank you for saying that you do not want to politicize, it is a question that we need to resolve as a state that we need to resolve in the interests of democracy, higher principles, so at least I would like to make a proposal to shorten the committee's hearing by 10 days, which means 50 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u13	Yes, thank you. I've noted your proposal to shorten the deadline for a ten-day hearing. Yes, it is with priority rights that President Schillerová is reporting. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad you feel the way I meant it when I got off with the veto. I will respond to Mr Okamura, sitting over there, and to the lady of the house... [[The President gives you a name.]] Decroix. Thank you. I'm sorry I couldn't remember right away. By your means, Madam Vice-President, it is exactly so. I perceive everything you have said, Mr Member, through Madam Vice-President. Believe me, I feel exactly the same way. We'll support the law politically. You know we've supported all of your proposals so far. I don't remember supporting any of them. But precisely because we are a democratic country, we are a rule of law, so we cannot pour out a bathtub and a baby. That is why we simply want to, we want this debate, we want a debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee, we want an expert discussion and we really want to verify that the law is in line with both European regulations and the Constitution and the Charter so that we do not spill the baby with the bathtub. And against shortening the time limits... Absolutely, we'll support it. We want to reduce deadlines, we want the debate, we want the support, we want the law to be here, but we want it to simply comply with generally binding legislation, with the Constitution and with European regulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Isn't that right, I'm ending the general debate and I'm asking if there's an interest in final words? It is. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u16	Madam, honourable Members, I believe that even what has fallen here is desirable to release this law to second reading. It will be quite sufficient time to discuss this in the committees. I understand it's actually a new regulation, it hasn't been here yet. So I look forward to the debates on the relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u17	Since there has been an objection, i.e. the veto of two parliamentary clubs, YES and SPD, we will continue to do so. There was no proposal that we should vote on. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I'm gonna go ahead and proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the foreign committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 60, 140 Members and Members registered, for 125, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. In light of what I said, I will not repeat it again, I suggest we order the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u19	Thank you, too. Anyone else have a suggestion? Member Strýček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u20	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. So I take the liberty, because I have also become familiar with this bill and, of course, there is very much talk of the security of the state, so I propose further discussion in the Security Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-008-012.u21	Thank you. Does anyone else have another suggestion? [[No one's checking in.]] We will now vote on the proposals for the commandment, first of all, to the constitutionally-legal committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 61, 140 Members and Members, for 124, against none, have therefore been accepted. We will now vote on the Commandment to the Security Committee, as Mr Strýček suggested. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 140 Members and Members of Parliament registered, for 56, versus 3. The motion was denied. I therefore note that we have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a committee for the next. We will now vote on the proposal that was made in the general debate by Mrs Decroix to shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days. Isn't that right? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 141 Members and Members, for 125, against none. The proposal was adopted and we have therefore reduced the deadline to 50 days. I'm done discussing this point. Before we break up, I would ask Mr. Vice-President of the Election Commission, Karel Haas, to introduce us to the results of the election that took place today at 1:45 p.m. This was point 13, Proposal for the election of the President of the National Budget Board. Please, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the hall.]] And I'm asking for peace.
