ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 311/ - First Reading Mr Vlastimil Válek, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is therefore a law on the protection of public health and the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, as well as related laws. The main objective of the bill is the transposition of Directive No. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 153, 21.5.2011, p. 1). So we are trying to catch up on the slide that was created about the quality of water intended for human consumption. This is a recast of the text into the Czech legal order. The adoption of the draft law will ensure an increase in the safety of drinking water supply, as the assessment and follow-up of risks across the entire chain, which, from the river basin, through removal, adjustment, distribution network to the consumer's tap, enables the focus on the relevant risks and the adoption of appropriate measures to protect public health effectively. The proposal includes an accompanying amendment to the Water and Sewer Act, which regulates the rules on access to water infrastructure and the area of information on supplied drinking water to customers. This part of the law was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture. It's actually a combination of two texts. The application contains the revocation of the authorisation for the issue of Decree No. 84/2001 Coll., on sanitary requirements for toys and products for children under three years of age. This is due to the elimination of duplication, since the issue covered by that decree is currently covered by other legislation, in particular by Government Decree No. 86/2011, on technical requirements for toys. So we're removing the duplicate that's in the legislation. Finally, the proposal brings the Czech rule of law into line with the EU regulation. In the event of non-compliance or non-acceptance, the Czech Republic would not fulfil its obligations arising from membership of the European Union. This is therefore a transposition. That's all from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u3	Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Michaela Šebelová, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, only briefly, the Minister has already explained everything. The proposed amendment to the Public Health Act is a transposition of a European directive which aims to increase the safety of drinking water supplied. It proposes such an adjustment where the assessment and follow-up of risks across the supply chain will enable the focus to be on the relevant risks and the adoption of appropriate measures to protect public health effectively. [[12.10 hours]] It also includes an accompanying amendment to the Water and Sewer Act, regulating access to water infrastructure and providing information on supplied drinking water to residents. Furthermore, the proposal removes duplication of treatment of hygiene requirements for toys and products for children under three years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u5	I thank and open the general debate in which Mrs Věra Adámková has signed up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words from the practice of this amendment on the protection of public health. You know that protecting public health is moving our everyday life. It certainly affects all areas, of course it is necessary to keep an eye on it and it is good that I do not want to say some things completely tightened up, but, say, they modify or adapt. As far as - I allow myself to comment on both parts - that part of the protection of the health of young children, it is very necessary because a number of products are coming to the market that have escaped a little bit in the old regulation, which unfortunately we see in hospitals and colleagues in pediatrics as not exactly a joy providing a view of the child, so definitely fine. When it comes to tightening up or modernization, let's say we're not exactly strict at Advent time, the demand for drinking water, we have to welcome this, and I'm very curious about the step B that needs to be done, and that's the control. Let me make a few comments on why we attach so much weight to this in health care! You people who watch health care, you know, it's not that long ago, when unfortunately, people who have some health disabilities, that means reduced immunity. for example, for us people after the transplant, unfortunately, there was a death due to the proliferation of legionels in drinking water. I'm just following up on one thing, and that's so that we don't head over here, please, head over to all the news that's being submitted to us - like temperature reductions and so on, because these bacteria have very specific conditions for their survival. They've probably been on the ground longer than we have, and they want to fight us and win, of course, so we really need to monitor the quality of drinking water very carefully, especially in hospitals, in children's collectives and the like, of course, in households, but there is a personal responsibility. But it has B, and that is, especially now in our capital Prague, other cities have something similar, or they don't - the water doesn't belong to us. The water is a private company, but the water lines aren't the company that sells us water. So I really appeal very much to our colleagues who are in communal politics, and that means control. The water's getting a little out of hand. I believe that drinking water is not essential for everyone, but it really is for health, so we are often out of control, and I very much ask: we have a legislative instrument here, let us use it, it is a novelization, it is in accordance, that is, it is with European law, or to some extent, as human action is obviously imperfect is treated, so I certainly welcome the tightening up, but we will certainly ask through the Minister and, despite others, how we really look at the quality of water, especially in children's teams, hospitals and so on, because we can significantly improve the forecast of our patients as well. And the second thing - which is not for our minister, for other ministers, of course, perhaps through him - is how we force water distributors to ensure the quality of drinking water. This means regular checks, and then eventually, so also another point B, which will do it because we are not satisfied everywhere, we know about it, so we certainly welcome the amendment, but I say again that we will ask about the fulfilment, because for the health of our inhabitants, for some, it is absolutely essential, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u7	Thank you. And I'm asking if anyone else is interested in getting off? Yes, Mr. Špičák is here. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we take our approach to drinking and safe water as a matter of course, but it is not a matter of course, and surprisingly in all the consequences that have been mentioned, both by the referring minister and rapporteur and by my colleague Professor Adámková. This is basically a very complex and very complicated process. The process also has its development because the spectrum of basically negative substances that can potentially occur in water and the spectrum of pathogens that are really present there are also changing. And I can actually warn or confirm Professor Adámková's words about the legionel infection, which really hit our equipment very hard and forced us to local, basically to local protective measures. So again, this is a very complicated process. We have to stratify the risks, we have to divide the whole process of control into control of resources, so control of those essentially pipes, that means divorce mechanisms, and control directly on that tap. And the whole system must be focused, it must basically be organized so that it is basically preventive, which means that these infections are not specifically addressed, which are already ongoing, or poisonings to prevent them, and basically it is essentially a system that is based on scientific evidence. Therefore, there is no reason for it not to be more or less identical for the whole of Europe. I see three pitfalls here that I would like to draw attention to, and I would basically like the petitioner to acknowledge them. For one thing, it is a pitfall of the capacity of sanitary stations, which we understand, of course, is the state in which they are in, and we know that the plan is to release a certain percentage, about 120 employees. The second pitfall is the pitfall of excessive bureaucratization, which means that the bureaucracy associated with the controlling should not be transferred to state institutions such as schools, so that the school head does not have to fill out x of various questionnaires and basically substitutate communication. I would like to point out that the system will also require unified digitalisation. All units of the system must be universally connected and very functional. And as the fourth issue, which I repeatedly draw attention to in this area, should be clearly dedicated to the Constitution, thus optimally the State Health Institute, which would systematically address this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I see a factual remark here, and even two. First Minister Válek, and then Mrs Adámková. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u10	Just very briefly. I wanted to thank both previous speakers. It is not quite common for three university professors to agree on something that is important, even on academic grounds, and all the more so I am glad that we agreed on this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will be very happy to continue discussing this subject in the committees, and at the same time the Health Committee will meet at the Ministry of Health, I hope, either by the end of the year or after the New Year, where we would like to discuss again a shift in the preparation of legislation for the reform of hygiene of the State Health Institute and measuring stations. Without an amendment to this law, we do not have a chance to implement many of the things that have been said here, through Mr President, Mr Špičák and Mrs Adámková, at all. Therefore, I ask in advance for support and cooperation over this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u11	Thank you. And there is another factual one, Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u12	Thank you. I will not delay, I just wanted to take advantage of this situation in the fact that we will have to involve other fellow ministers in this, because the quality of drinking water for children's facilities - preschool, school. And then we would really be very, very persistent in carrying out that control. So I'm just pointing it out, so it's not like we didn't say anything, but we're definitely gonna check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u13	Thank you. And there is one more factual point. I don't know if it's factual or if you want it to be... factual. You have your word, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, hello. I would like to mention one more thing about this discussion of drinking water that I have been trying to do when I participated in the preparation of the Constitutional Water Protection Act as such, because the water infrastructure, both the entities and the objects of this critical infrastructure, should also be protected, because we are going through a relatively turbulent period and it may be that water as a soft target can become the subject or target of terrorist attack. It would therefore also be good to include in this law that the protection of this infrastructure is the responsibility of the state and the authorities, because it is not only surface water, it is also groundwater, it is water resources, it is water treatment plants, sewage treatment plants and also water treatment plants as such. [[12.20 hours]] I think that this is an important thing that must be heard here, and it is necessary to pay just as close attention to it as what Mrs Adámková said about legionella and similar possible infections and pathogens. We saw it in Prague 6 when there was actually a connection of waste water and drinking water. We really need to understand the whole drinking water supply issue throughout the complex, that is, from the sources of drinking water that we need to protect, through infrastructure to what is going on with the waste water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-005-017.u15	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? If not, I am ending the debate. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. And I will call my colleagues and we will proceed to the vote. So who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered 155, for was 129, against was 1. Result: accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion to order another committee or committees? I can't see. In that case, I conclude this point and I thank everyone for their cooperation. Before starting the next item, I will just read the apology: Mr Koten from 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Kubík from 12 to 16 for health reasons and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová from 12 to 14 o'clock for family reasons. We can go on, we're at point number
