ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u1	28. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended /German press 312/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Balaš will present the proposal on behalf of Vít Rakušan. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and in Political Movements. This proposal was drawn up on the basis of an evaluation of the current functioning of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u2	Minister, I am very sorry, but I would ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, and if they have something to discuss, let them move to the foyer. Once again, I'm asking for peace, thank you. You may proceed, Minister. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Once again, honourable Members, honourable Members, let me make a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and in Political Movements. This proposal was drawn up on the basis of an evaluation of the current functioning of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, and it was necessary to make an explicit adjustment to the internal rules of operation of the Office. I could imagine other parametric changes, but for now, we'll stay with this. First of all, these are relations between the President of the Office and the members of the Office so that their roles are balanced and members can be more involved in the work of the Office. He also called for a more precise definition of relations within the Office in February 2021 of the then Interior Minister's Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The Ministry of the Interior has collaborated with representatives of the Office to prepare this proposed amendment and calls for it, of course, also the non-public sector. The present House press is following up on the materials discussed already during the previous parliamentary term on the initiative of the then President of the Chamber of Deputies. The main principle of the proposed amendments is to strengthen the collective element in the management of the Office and to this end, it is proposed to establish the College of the Office as the senior body of the Office composed of both the President and the members of the Office. The College of the Office shall have important competence in the coordination of the supervisory activities of the Office. The central management role of the President, who is at the head of the Office, shall be governed by his/her activities and shall be regarded as a service body, but shall be maintained. Following this, amendments are proposed to clarify the position of the members and the President of the Office in the supervisory activity which they would not only direct but also exercise in a particular area of office's competence. Strengthening the transparency and efficient functioning of the Office in the supervision of the management of political parties and political movements and financing of electoral campaigns in general can be considered to be very important, so I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Radovan Vích, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor. And before I grant it to you, I will apologize to Mr Ondřej kolář from 14.15 to 9 hours for work reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll try to be quite brief. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended, which is a guarantee inspection committee and which is also likely to be discussed by the Constitutional Committee, this amendment proposes, in particular, the establishment of a college of the Office, composed of members of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements, in the Act on Association in Political Parties and in the Political Movements, specifying its individual competences. The main proposed changes are therefore the following: the establishment of the College of the Office, the definition of the status of the Office's supervisory and methodological functions and the improvement of information within the Office. It was not proposed to discuss this law in an accelerated process, i.e. pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and the effectiveness of the amendment is proposed by the petitioner from 1 January 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening up a general debate to which Mr Vích has come forward, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u6	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. By this amendment, the law No. 424/1991Sb., on association in political parties and in political movements complements the establishment of a college composed of members of that office. I would remind you that, in addition to the President, there are four members of the Office in charge. All of them, including the President, are to be formed by a new body, i.e. the College of the Office. This authority shall be entrusted, according to the explanatory memorandum, with key competences in the exercise of the supervisory and methodological role of the Authority, such as coordinating the activities of the President and of the members of the Office, including the possibility to impose tasks on them, the approval of the Office's activity plan, the Authority's decrees or interpretation opinions, the decision-making of appeals and the like. The explanatory memorandum also states that, for other agendas, it is proposed to introduce mandatory consultation of the President of the Office by the College of the Office. It is therefore a restriction on the separate competences of the President of the Office created by a newly created collective body. I remind you that the President of the Office is hereby appointed President of the Republic. This does not change with this bill. However, it should be noted that the members of the office, i.e. the four persons who are to become new members of the college, and thus their powers are to be strengthened, are appointed by the President of the Republic, but are elected by the Senate from proposals from various institutions. In addition, the Senate also has the enhanced power to propose these members before they are elected. For example, a member of the Office may be proposed by the entire House, but also by one senator, which is a great imbalance in the power-sharing process for the benefit of the Senate. The approval of this amendment would therefore result in an unjustified further strengthening of the Senate's competence. The representation of the President of the Office is already being dealt with in the current law. In my opinion, the draft law is useless and merely imposes quite non-standard restrictions on the President of the Office and weakening his powers. Moreover, it is not known what it would do in practice. In my opinion, the transfer of the President's responsibility to collective responsibility is simply wrong. On the other hand, this may lead to a fluctuating institution, where, following the adoption of this amendment, disputes arise about the direction of the Office's activities and in the finals, it weakens the institution as a whole. For me personally, therefore, I cannot support this amendment in the proposed text, but let us discuss it and discuss it in the relevant committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Petr Letocha will now appear and Mr Petr Sadovský will prepare himself. Mr. Ambassador, you're logged in - you're downloading, okay. So it is Mr Petr Sadovský's turn to prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I will apologize to Tomáš Helebrant, who apologizes from 13.45 to 9. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, my previous speaker here has summed up more or less how the office works today, which means that there is one president of the office, four members, basically fourteen employees. I don't want to wind this up in any way right now because I know you're running out of time. I will prepare an amendment or prepare an amendment for second reading, but I just want to give you a brief few comments on the proposal. In the event that this government proposal is approved, the administration will no longer be monocratic or completely collective. It's basically a new type of so-called dual management. The President shall lead, direct the work and the College shall assign tasks to the President. The President, as head of the State's organisational branch, is personally responsible for the Office's personnel and material technical security. Against this, the collective authority shall have no legal personality and shall not be able to guarantee effective public expenditure. If we talk about the budget, the President is personally responsible for compliance with the budgetary rules, and the College is discussing the budget and its amendments without any subsequent responsibility. The President is himself and directly responsible for the management of civil servants, against which the College entrusts members to the management of civil servants, without the necessary participation of the President. And there should be fourteen employees in the so far Monocraticly managed office who will basically be run by a five-member college. I will overlook the possibility of interpelling the President. Overall, it may happen - I'm not saying that it will happen, but it may happen - that the office itself, as it is built today, will be even more weakened than it is now, and it may become really confusing. I would ask you not to look at it - I suppose almost all of you have looked at it - to look at it and think about what I just said, because I think that this proposal, which seems to me to have been sewn with a hot needle, would deserve some kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Helena Válková will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u10	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, I will follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Sadovskýý's colleague, very briefly stating that, although the YES movement or from me and the other Members and Members, the motion for rejection will not come, the amendment already mentioned must come. There are vague terms, new discussion of information, mechanism of appeals, decision-making of the college. Some of them have already been brought to the attention of Mr Sadovský, so I think that there is a regime here that we know from the penalty law, which I certainly do not agree with the justification, the sooner, the better. On 1 January, there will be a change in the presidency and other staff of this office, and we must therefore have new legislation. Moreover, we know that competence, if it is intended to adopt this standard in order to clearly define competences, is the exact opposite of what this standard would lead to, in this version, I am quite certain - many possibilities of interpretation and interpretation. I was quite surprised that it was in plenary today. You see, I have no basis, so I will limit myself to a statement - rejection, not because it is true that it focuses too much power in one hand, but also in this form. That means, so we all have to work together, hopefully across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u11	Thank you, Madame. I will now read two more apologies. Mr Roman Bělor apologizes for working reasons and Jan Lacina, both from 14.15, Mr Bělor to 15, Mr Lacina to 15.30. Mr. Letocha is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u12	Thank you for the floor. I propose shortening the time limits for committee discussions from 60 to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u13	Yes, I'll make a note of shortening the deadline from 60 to 30 days. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Yes, with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u14	I suggest we extend the deadline to 70 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-011-028.u15	Anyone else reporting for the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate Am I asking the Minister for the final word? Nor is the rapporteur interested, nor is the Minister. I'm hearing an application for check-out, I've signed you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'll read an apology before the number of entries settles. Josef Kott apologizes from 13:30 to 9:00 for work reasons. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Please, Mrs... garanční. He's not suggesting that we proceed to the vote. I ask who agrees that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the inspection committee as a guarantee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 128, 95 Members and Members registered, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a further committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to vote? It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as the next? I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 129, 95 Members and Members signed up, for 90, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. A proposal to shorten the deadline from 60 to 30 days was made in the general debate and a proposal to extend the deadline was also made. Do you agree that we should first vote on the counter-proposal? Yes? Isn't that right? I therefore ask who agrees with the proposal for an extension of 70 days. It's an extension, okay? To let you know what we are voting on, the proposal for an extension, President Schillerová, to discuss 70 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 130, 97 Members and Members voted in favour of 48, versus 34. The motion was denied. We will now vote on a proposal to shorten, to discuss from 60 to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 131, 97 Members and Members voted in favour of 51, versus 45. The motion was accepted. So we reduced the deadline to 30 days. That concludes the discussion of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Before we start the next point, I'll read the apologies. Milada Voborská apologizes from 14.25 to nine o'clock for work reasons. We will now proceed to discuss item number
