ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, I am opening on the second day of the 29th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out - so I have checked everyone out and I will ask you to sign up again with your registration cards, or to tell me who you're asking for a replacement card. I also say that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting. There's a lot of apologies, so it's going to be quite a long one. Madame Věra Adámková for the whole of the family Vildumetzová, Jana Král for the whole of the whole of the Lukáš Vlček, Andrej Babka for the whole of the Kolovratník day for the Ratiborský of the family Michal, Jana Šimon for the Heller of the Urbanová Barbora, Klára Dostálová for the whole of the working Voborská for the Milada of the family reasons, Aleš Dufek for the Martin of the Zdenka day for the Iveta of the working time, Jiří Hájek for the whole of the Pastuchová Levko for the whole of the family reasons, Matěj Ondřej Havel for the whole of the Wenzl Lucie for the Potůčková of the working reason, Karel Havlíček for the whole of the Pokorná Jermanová for the Vladimíra of the Lesenská Mádlová, Ivana Jáč from 12 hours for the Jaroslava reason, Vít CrkvenjašŠtefanová until 11 hours for the health reasons, Staněk Klíma on the whole of the whole of the working day. She also apologizes to Vice-President Věra Kovářová between 9 and 11 o'clock for reasons of work, President Radim Fiala from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons. And now we come to the apologies of the members of the government. Minister Vladimír Balaš apologizes all day on account of foreign travel, Ivan Bartoš all day on account of foreign travel, Martin Baxa all day on account of foreign travel, MikuláMikuláš Bek all day on account of medical reasons, Martin Kupka all day on account of foreign travel, Jan Lipavskýý all day on account of foreign travel, Zdeněk Nekula within 10 hours on account of working reasons, Vít Rakušan all day on account of work, Zbyněk Stanjura all day on account of foreign travel, Michal Šalomoun until 12 hours on account of working reasons, Vlastimil Válek all day on account of working reasons and Minister Anna Hubáčková also all day on business. That would be an apology for now. And we are to begin today's negotiations with a fixed clause 8, which is a government bill amending Law No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, it is printing 237, it is in third reading, and then we would continue to discuss further points approved by the programme. However, I can already see with priority law the application for potential changes to our programme. So please, now there's room for any changes to the show. This is Chairman Jakob. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. On the agenda of today's meeting, I would like to propose, following the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture Nekula and the Minister of Health, War, the elimination of the current point 9, which is the House Press 73, a draft law on pharmaceuticals. There are a number of amendments, and there is still time to discuss the various amendments, which is why both ministers agreed to withdraw this press from the programme at the moment, and I am doing so. Current point 9, House press 73 - exclusion from the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-000-000.u3	Thank you. I'm marked. And here comes Chairman Marek Výborný. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-000-000.u4	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues, on the basis of the agreement of all Members' Club Chairs, I would like to read a change in the order of consideration for today's 29th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in this way. Of course, Madam Vice-President, it is up to you then how you let this vote, but since this is the agreement of all club presidents, I think that we will then be able to vote en bloc. So today we would act in this order: we already have - and we do not have to vote - as the first point of today's House press meeting 237 and after that we would discuss the laws of the agenda of this meeting in this order: paragraph 3, House press 30 - the government bill on the services of platforms for communication of video recordings and so on, then we would continue point 6 - the government bill on organic farming, House press 57, then paragraph 7 - the government bill on veterinary care, House press 72, also in the third reading all, further we would continue point 10 - the government bill on the protection of hops, House press 138, paragraph 11, House press 151 - the government bill on plant health care, i.e. the amendment on plant health care. And another point, item 2, House Press 166 - Government Bill on Public Health Insurance Insurance, House Press 166. Consequently, if there were time space, points 4 and 5 would be included, House prints 55 - Government bill on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment, and point 5, which is the amendment law on this law, House print 56. [[9.10 hours]] I'm gonna have to recap so we don't make a mistake. Thus, the discussion of laws at third reading would now be firmly placed by the House press 237, then by the House press 30, then by the House press 57, by the House press 72, by the House press 138, by the House press 151, by the House press 166, by the House press 55 and by the House press 56. Furthermore, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I would also like to propose that we place point 13 for 1345 hours, which is an electoral point - The proposal for the election of the President of the National Budget Board, and put point 12 for 14.15 hours, which is the only draft law at first reading, and that is the Government's proposal for a law on restrictive measures against certain serious international negotiations, the so-called penal law, the Parliament's Press 256. Fixed today at 14.15 hours with the fact that before opening this point, the results of the elections, i.e. that point 13, would be announced. So much on the basis of the club president's agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-13-ps2021-029-02-000-000.u5	Thank you. So it's the agreement of all club presidents, both the firm classification of order and the fixed classification of two points as proposed. I'm just gonna see if there's anything else to add to the program item. This is not the case, so I will have my colleagues and colleagues come to the vote to deal with these proposals. We're already meeting in the hall. I didn't notice the check-out request, so... Was it? So I'm signing you off. You've all been checked out. Please log in again with your registration cards. Well, in the order it was presented. First, on the basis of President Jakob's proposal, we will vote on the proposal to eliminate paragraph 9, which is the medicines, the House Press 73. Initiating vote on this motion for elimination. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 19, 141 Members and Members voted 140, against 0. I therefore note that this resolution has been adopted, the item has been eliminated. I therefore propose that, if there is no contradiction, vote the second proposal en bloc, in whole. It sounded very detailed here. So the order of points would be points 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, 2, 4, 5. Then 13 and 12. With the fact that, of course, point 8 has already been firmly inserted. Of course, that doesn't change, that's for sure. So if there is no contradiction, I am now opening the vote on this motion to change the agenda. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 20, 142 Members voted in favour of 140, against 0. I note that this proposal to amend the programme has been approved. We have dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda, so we can proceed to the first point of today's meeting based on how we are currently approved. It's a point number.
