ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws /German press 351/ - shortened acts According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 5 We should assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. I am opening the debate and here I want to ask whether Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is joining the debate at this moment or until the debate at that point? To the point, well, I'll postpone the application for the debate. And I record here two applications for this debate, first Mr Hubert Lang and then Mr Radek Koten. [[Both gesticulate that to the point.]] Then Mr. Vondráček. Do I understand that both applications are up to a given point when it's open? Thank you. Mr Vondráček reporting now? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u2	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if I count well, in four weeks or five weeks I am standing here for the third time with the same book, with the same constitutional findings and the same arguments, and I want to speak to the exact same thing, and that is overuse or abuse of the institute of a state of legislative emergency. [[He's pointing.]] And I'm tired of it myself, too, so I don't want to quote it again, all the constitutional findings. But it is not from the central one of 2010, number 55, that I will not be able to read one sentence, and that is that "the inconclusive of certain rights of the opposition, or the factual impossibility of their undisturbed performance as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, may lead to a weakening of the legitimacy of the exercise of power. Continuous restrictions or even violations of fundamental democratic principles can also lead to a threat to the democratism of the political system itself. The ruling majority is to bear in mind that power is not forever, and the current ruling majority can soon become a parliamentary minority and vice versa." End of the Constitutional Court quote. The last time I referred you to the comment that came out of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sure you all know it, and you'll read it there, I'll really cut it short, I have no reason to drag it out here because we have a half-thirty in a minute, but "negotiation in a state of legislative emergency means a certain extraordinary, extraordinary circumstance." And the Constitutional Court made it clear that the interpretation of extracurricularity should be restrictive and that it should really be based on some extraordinary economic threat of damage to the extent and essentially by analogy with what is stipulated, for example, in the Czech Security Act, that it must be a serious threat to citizens' rights or the threat of major economic damage, and preferably both cumulative. The exception is, and this is also mentioned by the Constitutional Court and the Rules of Procedure in its comments when a broader consensus is found, when the opposition agrees, for example, when a constitutional majority - 120 votes or more - is voted on about the state of legislative emergency - then one can turn a blind eye and one can forget that the conditions are not strictly given. However, I did not once again capture from the ruling coalition any voice or attempt that we might be negotiating a regime in § 90, which would be logical that we would approve it all at first reading if there was a consensus. I did not receive a single signal in this regard that the opposition would need to be asked not to vet § 90. Maybe I'm wrong? I'm looking at our lady president of the club, but it didn't happen. [[Mrs Schiller agrees to nod.]] Or if negotiations were to be called upon to shorten the maximum periods for second and third readings, we did that here too recently, for that's about a month since we've been there for the last time. But I didn't catch any dialogue like that again. And this coalition is going through a lot of force, and it wants to discuss it again in a state of legislative emergency, and it's essentially threatening the legitimacy of the process. It's just scary that parties that are called democratic really use undemocratic procedures, and when something is three times a month... And then somebody comes out of the coalition and says he's sorry or he's sorry, he's not happy about it - someone said, "The Chairman's leaving," and he says he's not happy about it. I'm just reminding you that the government is not here to make you happy in Parliament or to like it here. The government is here primarily to comply with the legislation in force, and this is not happening again in this case and is once again taking advantage of the state of legislative emergency. The ANO movement club, although on the content side, is basically in favour of dealing with the situation. I suppose Madam President will talk more about it. I just won't support this way because it's the third time within a month. We had a pretty close encounter last time, coincidentally with the Minister, who is now sitting here with another legal standard. I would like to ask again in this particular law, what is the impact, what are the damage? You can quantify it somehow because the regime lasts until March for Ukrainian citizens, so it is actually still three months. And so I would like to hear, explain to me, and convince me that this is not just a pillow for a government coalition, so that they have a few months to get ready in some way, that it's not just excuses, because they're not able to be prepared right away. I can imagine a transitional provision being made that we would agree here in a broad consensus that we could just do it in the classic legislative process. Instead, you come back with a state of legislative emergency. And we have something to say as an opposition, because if you think that Lex Ukraine has always been perfect, it isn't. Listen to criticism, for example, from the governor's side to the regional centers. That could just be fixed, but no, you're gonna blow this place up again in a state of legislative emergency. [[17.30 hours]] The bill was submitted to the House on December 1st. The opposition is simply not equipped and ready to make a solid amendment this quickly, so it degrades the debate in the Chamber of Deputies and it is something that should not be happening here, because a parliamentary minority is really being suppressed by a parliamentary majority. And once again, it will be for the strength and it is not for the benefit of us, it is not for the benefit of the rule of law. And I would beg you, for the third time, for the third time!, don't do that again. Someone always says you're not gonna do it anymore, and then another law comes in. I hope I'm standing here with this book and my arguments and this constitutional find for the last time, because I'm tired of it, too. [[The rules of procedure of the PSP.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Alena Schillerová will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, our Member Radek Vondráček, has made that very clear. I will not repeat the same arguments that were made by him. I'm just gonna say, he's been meeting for a week, and I'm here again. And I said at the time: there was such a mess here, and I heard a lot of assurances not only for us here in plenary, but also for the grémia, on the organizational committee, that it was the last time. Well, it's not the last time. And yet you have perfected the fact that you are presenting a law in a state of legislative emergency without the reasons and arguments, as my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček has said, and we do not even have the Home Secretary here yet! [[Let's hear it from YES.]] So the Force Minister is pushing the force of the Force Institute, and he's not even coming to the Chamber of Deputies yet. Well, that's really something out of the ordinary. A new age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u5	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, what we have heard here is, of course, clearly true. Every time I receive an extension of a legislative emergency via e-mail, I know exactly what's going to happen next. It can be said that the Ministry of the Interior was not able in itself to prepare the bill in a good way, so it was said to us on the Security Committee that it would still be working and fine-tuning. So it won't be lex Ukraine IV, but V, VI, VII, how the Ministry of the Interior will gradually complete it. It is precisely the abuse of the Institute for the adoption of laws in a legislative emergency that is already in principle - because there is a limited democratic debate between the government, members of coalitions and members of opposition - so of course, we can say a little bit about this, but we really cannot put forward amendments within the time limits that would be appropriate, and therefore we cannot support this kind of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u7	Thank you. Now, the Minister with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the liberty of reacting. First of all, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan is excused for work reasons. [[Noise from the opposition.]] I know you can laugh about it, but who has ever experienced from ministers and from these benches, which is also connected with the European Union, knows that they simply have to meet some of the deadlines. And it's a proposal that he's putting forward in cooperation with several ministries, so I don't think it's a problem at all that I'm putting him here today and defending him for the government. But I want to respond here to what some of you have said, including my colleague Vondráček. If you look at why there's a reason to submit. This is the reason that concerns the obligation of electronic registration for people who are here in the territory of the Czech Republic with temporary protection, for which it is possible to extend temporary protection, as the European Union has recently decided for all 27 states. Serious impacts that may occur if we fail to do so, and the system needs to be started as quickly as possible and the amount that is here, the registration system can be done, so let us be aware that it has an impact, for example, on the business environment in the Czech Republic. Today we have more than 115,000 people who have come from Ukraine, currently on the labour market in the Czech Republic, and the real threat would be that after 31 March these people could not continue to be here in the Czech Republic. So this is not only a reason that is here in favour of protecting these people, but it is also a very practical reason why it is presented here, why it is really necessary for this efficiency to take place at a very early date, even a practical reason that concerns the national economy, which concerns our companies, which, let's say, really also the economic impact in relation to this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u9	Thank you, too, Minister, and I ask if anyone else would like to speak in the debate? I see two factual points here. First Mrs Jana Pastuchová, then Mr Ivo Vondrák and then Mr Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u10	I'm just really, really, really. I was surprised - I wouldn't say a word if the Minister were sick... Yesterday I watched The Theresa Tománková's Party where the minister apologized this morning for medical reasons, so I thought he was sick, you're saying for work reasons, he's running around in the machine somewhere in America that he was flying. And if he wants a legislative emergency, and this law, as it is in a hurry, and working reasons... The Minister is supposed to work here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák as another Member and Mr Jiří Mašek and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u12	Good evening. I don't do it often, but I have to do it now. Dear Minister, we're dealing with this in a state of legislative emergency because you haven't been able to solve it since 24. 2nd year this year. That's the basic problem. That is why we are dealing with Lex Ukraine III, IV, will be V, VI. And I am now saying this as a person who is familiar with this problem, and I think my colleagues from the Association of Regions will confirm me in this and my colleagues from the Association of Regions. You are unable to resolve social benefits in the context of the Ukrainian crisis so that those who are here can take care of those who have it in their job description. So don't nod your head, don't do it, and you don't even know how to do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u13	Just to be clear. Minister, you're applying with priority rights, do I understand that? [[The Minister agrees.]] So here are the factual points. Mr. Jiří Mašek and then Mr. Josef Cogan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u14	Mr President, honourable ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Minister, I would also like to look back on this issue, because we have actually been pushing the Security Committees since the end of March this year to improve the registration, to make specific proposals for photography, for the suspected suspects to be taken with dactyloscopy and so on. And what's happening suddenly appears after a year, Lex Ukraine IV, that will require photos, that these people will enter into registers and so on. We've wasted our time. We don't know how many Ukrajinec we have here. There is no time for this in fact, but I can say that, for example, the General Health Insurance Corporation benefits 2 billion of the fact that the state pays from its cash register for Ukrajinec who are not here because they draw on them as standard as our citizens. From that, we can assume that there are about half of them here. The same is true in schools. Yesterday I was investigating a patient who works at a school in Hradec, where 100 pupils joined freshman year, 17 Ukrajinec, and after two months there is no one from the Ukrajinec, they just went back. It is also based on the entry of the number of children into schools and so on. It turns out we don't have registration at all, and now, after a year, maybe we're having a little bit of a drink with her, so that's where the Home Office is failing. To this day, a migration plan has not been submitted, and the Minister has actually warned here a few weeks ago that we can expect hundreds of thousands of refugees too. And we still can't take care of them, because material reserves aren't ready for that, we don't have emergency accommodation. All we have to do is rely on the Ukrajinec to leave here, and some of us who are coming back will somehow be able to handle it. But we don't have an overview of it at all. That is why I would like the Minister to be here to discuss this point. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u15	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Josef Cogan, with a factual remark, and then Mr Hubert Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u16	I would just like to go on time, rather than just the fact that the temporary protection institute was formulated at the meetings of the ministers of the European Union's interior on 14 October 2022, so we are not talking about a spring term. And then maybe I'd like to say about the relationship, as was said here, with the minister. The Minister has apologized, he is currently on a business trip, where he defends the interests of the Czech Republic and the European Union. And the fact that there were assaults on his condition seems a little bit like hyenaism to me. The truth is that Vít Rakušan was in a state that he was not very well on the weekend, basically because of it he tried to get better in shape. The fact that even in this case he left for the planned meeting, which has been planned since the summer, to blame him, seems to me really not entirely correct. At the same time, I would like to thank my colleague, the Minister, for taking the matter for him, because we are all acting for the interests of the Czech Republic. What's in that law, I think, if we subtract those opinions from us, it's factually correct, so I don't know why we're putting it that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u17	Thank you. There are a number of factual points. First, Mr Hubert Lang, then Mrs Berenika Peštová and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I am then signed up for the general debate, where I will comment on the law as well as on the YES movement. We've always joined the Lex Ukraine three times and what's going on here - it's not true, Mr. Ambassador, who you spoke before me. There's just a deadline until March... [[President: Through me, please.]] Through Mr President, I apologise. It is not so simple, really, and to deal with this without the presence of the Minister of the Interior, who obviously also has something to say because it also affects the MPSV - this is really about the security of the Czech Republic, it is about large funds and it is simply not that simple. And to deal with it in a state of legislative emergency like this in a shortened procedure, where we really have a whole series of questions, despite the Security Committee, that Lex Ukraine, gradually some of the things that we draw attention to practically since the beginning of March, April, so they start to work there. But how many more of these Lex Ukraines are gonna be this kind of salami method, okay? So I'm gonna be talking in a minute, and I'm gonna have a whole bunch of things, and I'm gonna point out what we're still seeing with some flaws. And the presence of the Home Secretary as a man who really is responsible? I don't like that he's not here, it's really wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare and then Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the honourable Member. He's not a hyena. Here I think that Mr Vondráček summarized it beautifully when he said what a state of legislative emergency is to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. And here's the thing -- there's supposed to be a process for every legislation. The process is clear, but you're pushing something here. That you don't have ministers here - look who's behind me. It's ridiculous. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is sitting here, I understand that he currently holds the position of Minister of the Environment, but he still takes the job for another. If it's a given ministry that's a gesturer, that minister should be sitting here. I understand you have a lot of other work to do, or the Ministry, ministers have a lot of work to do, but this is the law that's crucial to them, at least that's what they keep saying. So if I'm making laws -- and there's a lot of lawyers here, and I'm looking at you -- it's probably logical that whoever's going to submit, it's supposed to be a gesture minister. And don't let anyone take it and push it through in a state of legislative emergency. And I say, Mr Vondráček, who said why we do not want this to go at this rate, sums it up beautifully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u21	Thank you. Now, Mr. Jiří Mašek, after whom Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u22	I would just like to respond to Mr Cogan, through you. Mr. Ambassador, the temporary protection institute has been here since spring of this year. Since the very end of October, we have only discussed the possibility of extending those deadlines, nothing more, nothing less, and all the details about registration and the things that finally bring the law in part, and I say only in part, that Lex Ukraine IV, we've been talking about since spring. And the new thing that's in there is just the possibility of an extension of one year and under what conditions. Oh, my God, we've known since October. Why do we come up with this now in a legislative emergency, when we could have everything there already prepared, the other things that the law solves, which we have informed each other about with the Minister and his officers on the Security Committee repeatedly? And if we were just to implement an extension of the deadlines, it's fun, we could have discussed this perfectly properly, and we could have made that law so that we wouldn't have lex Ukraine V, VI, VII, VIII, because if we do it this way, that's how it's gonna work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u23	Thank you. Now, the Minister's point of fact and, after that, Mr Kobza's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u24	Thank you. I normally respect Mr. Governor Ivo Vondrák, but I think he started his point of fact, so I really don't think that's fair. You are here as a member of the YES movement, criticizing Vítek Rakušan, who is working as a minister of the Czech Republic and also a person who still represents the European Union within the Presidency today, on a business trip in the USA. You - the chairman of your movement bakes a christmas when drafts of laws are being discussed, which are crucial to this country. How dare you, please, with butter on your head to walk to this microphone and criticize Vítek Rakušan, who is working in the USA? Work! He doesn't bake Christmas in there! [[Strongly.]] And now I return to that reason again, and I have also told Mr Vondráček here. In mid-October, a decision was made on the possibility of extending temporary protection for refugees from Ukraine. We are a month and about ten days from this decision, we have here a draft law that responds to this decision, a bill which, at the same time, if we do not approve it, will mean significant economic damage and impact on the national economy. We are talking about 115 000 people who are working here on the labour market on the basis of this temporary protection decision, and all those people who are here today in the Czech Republic until 31 March must go through the registration mechanism. If anyone doesn't understand it from the viewers watching us, from the owners of the companies these people work at, from the people who help these people, I don't know how else to say it. That's logical. Those terms go behind them in a logical, forward-looking procedure. I, too, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, need some of the components of this proposal. And say we're doing it with the salami method? Yes, we are doing this because we are responding to a situation that has not been here since World War II.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u25	Thank you. Now Mr Kobza with a point of fact, then Mr Výborný, Mrs Berenika Peštová. [[Mrs Schiller signals from the bench.]] And I just want to ask, Mrs. Schillerová, are you applying with priority rights? So I'll put you in line, you're the third with priority rights then. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I don't want to take too long, but I can't resist asking one question to my five-caliber colleagues, through you, all of them. How is it that the coalition that controls the House, controls the House's leadership, controls the government, has its ministers there, how is it that there is no combined time program for the law to be discussed when the Home Secretary is present? It really doesn't feel right, this. Is it such a problem to agree to have him here when it comes to such an important law, which, as Minister Jurečka mentioned earlier, concerns as many hundreds of thousands of people? And isn't it possible to agree that he's just in time for everyone to be here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u27	Thank you. We proceed in a number of factual points. Now President Marek Výborný, Mrs Peštová, Mr Vondrák and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, I feel the need to stand up for the government of Minister Jurečka and Minister Rakušan. About what was said here. By your means, Mr. Mašek said why we should not just make a simple extension of the time limits and move on. Well, because, of course, we have to implement the experience that we acquired that year. It may have slipped away because it may seem small to you, but part of this law Lex Ukraine IV is, for example, the thing that makes it easier to recognise the qualifications of psychologists, because we do not want to burden them, is the lack of psychologists in the Czech Republic, so that we can use them for the service of psychologists Ukrainians or Ukrajinec who come here, so it is also part of this law. I think everyone who teaches in schools knows how the situation in Ukraine, when Ukrainian family children come here with often incredible experience for us - bombing, losing immediate family members, experience that none of us wants to experience, and need professional psychological help. That's one thing. [[17.50 hours]] Second thing: the school year began on September 1, 2022. Only on the basis of this experience is this law implemented, for example, to simplify the entries of Ukrainian children into kindergartens and primary schools. Again, based on experience, it is now up to date. I think that maybe all the courts can understand this as well as the question of a simplified extract from the register if those families return to Ukraine so that school directors are not burdened with the administrative wheel that the administrative order is ordering them today. Those are the specific things that the novel responds to. Please, let's take this into consideration. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u29	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mr Ivo Vondrák, Alena Schillerová and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u30	Thank you again for the floor. I promise I'll be the last one to do it, or I'll be the last one to do it. I'd like to see the Minister. Minister, I beg you, get away from Mr. Babiš. Look who's sitting behind you. Do you have a government here? You have three ministers here. [[Secretary Wark reporting from the O.R.]] Four ministers. And you still have that Babiš! It's embarrassing now. It's useless, it's embarrassing! Just take care of your government, she doesn't go to work, and I don't know why... Grandma here... [[The remarks of Minister Jurečka.]] Mr. Babiš was here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u31	I beg you, don't shout at each other. On the microphone, only on the microphone!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u32	Mr. Babiš was here. He's not here now. But where's your government?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Ivo Vondrák, then Mrs Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u34	I'm sorry, Minister, but I didn't criticize the Home Secretary for not being here. I criticized you for doing almost nothing in the time we have Ukrainian refugees here for their integration. And it's true! And that's what all the captains think. Of course, they don't say it out loud because they're ashamed of it, but the problem is that the social system isn't set up to make these people live here as standard people. That's right! You didn't do anything and be ashamed of it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u35	Thank you. Madam President Alena Schillerová, then Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I already think I've said enough about this Christmas last week or the week before last. I'd be happy to repeat it to you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, but please remember that you are in government, you are no longer in opposition! I understand that you like to hit Mr. Andrej Babiš here, that you belong - thank you, I thank you - that you are one of more than 800,000 followers on all his social networks, from where you know about Christmas. I told you he baked it at seven o'clock in the morning, and then dedicated himself to work duties, he was duly excused. And you're just distracting yourself from the fact that you weren't able to secure the Lex Ukraine in time, that you weren't able to get through on time, and you don't have a minister here yet! So I'm gonna criticize him because you're supposed to plan it that way - and the whole government, I'm criticizing the whole government - you're supposed to plan it to be presented in his presence, or you're supposed to deal with us - I never vet it - about shortening the deadlines. Instead, send it in here, put it in here in a legislative emergency, and you'll still look like you guys are terrible guys. You're not, for me you're not. And remember, as a member of the government and members of the government, you must answer to this Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u37	Thank you. Just for the record, I will remind you before I give you my word, Madame, that we are discussing whether the conditions for discussing the bill are in a short hearing. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u38	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to return to Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and the conditions are clearly set here. So the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens must be fundamentally threatened. I don't know. Or, therefore, the security of the state must be significantly threatened. Or there must be considerable economic damage to the state. Which of these conditions does the legislative emergency in which you want to discuss this law actually meet? You know, we've already started this term when the government coalition froze the salaries of politicians and other officials, it was in a legislative state of emergency. Even then, although we voted in favour of this proposal, it was clear that this institute had already been abused. At this point, I also consider this to be an abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency and I would like to remind the commemorators of the last parliamentary term, especially those who were on the constitutionally-legal committee, that it was not automatically when our government said that it wanted, or some minister, something in a legislative state of emergency, that we immediately agreed to it. There have been cases where members of the government coalition for the ANO movement said no, that this is not a legislative emergency. It was about the law on executions. They said it didn't meet the conditions and they didn't want it in a legislative emergency either. We had the courage as government MPs to stand up to our minister. You don't have the courage!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now President Josef Cogan, then Minister Marian Jurečka. Both with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u40	Well, I guess I'll talk about the relevant legislative emergency first. I think it's obvious that as far as the extension of protection is concerned, it has a relatively large relationship with the security of the state. And if it's to be extended from March in fact, the press is very significant in that sense. We believe that the legislative emergency is met. As far as the rest of it is concerned, as has been said here that the Minister is not here and cannot be present and that it is wrong, yes, Minister Rakušan wanted to be here. But the fact that we basically have a plan for the House, which we also approve at some time, is that this action, which he, on the format of the European Union versus the US, is discussing in America the internal security of both, say, states, that means both the European Union and the US, so that he can't be here at this point, that really doesn't seem right to me. And I'm still working with a colleague. If I had to talk about the hyenaism, I didn't mean it at all in relation to the legislative emergency, I meant that the relationship that he was reminded of his health here, and really, his health on the weekend wasn't in any good condition and he was trying to get better so that he could take this very important journey from the point of view of the Czech State and the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u41	Thank you. Now, the Minister has a point of fact and will prepare Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u42	I don't see Mr. Ivo Vondrák here anymore, but I have to say that when I hear that we can't handle the process of adaptation and integration, I confess, I don't know which countries he may be traveling on, but today we have the largest number of people from all countries in Europe who have come from Ukraine and are actively involved in the labour market. No country, no country has 115 000 working refugees from Ukraine on its labour market! First remark. Two. All of these people are taken care of under international law and ours, they are paid a humanitarian benefit, the number of aid beneficiaries is falling significantly, they are provided with accommodation and we are still working on adaptation for particularly vulnerable groups of people. And even this proposal will help us to make it even more accurate so that we can be sure that these people who apply for this assistance are in the Czech Republic, and we have the utmost information about them. Allow me to make one more remark, this is Mrs Ožanová, you have read the three fundamental reasons for a legislative emergency. When you think about it, this is a question of security, this is a question of fundamental economic impacts for the Czech Republic at the moment, if 115 000 people were to leave this country at the end of March and stop working in this country, this is a really fundamental problem for many businesses. A fundamental problem with economic impacts! Today we also have companies that can fully realize their production capacity and meet demand from their customers, including the area of security and equipment for the military, today this capacity of companies is also based on the people who came from Ukraine who work here. So even these conditions of legislative emergency are fulfilled from my point of view, and if anyone disagrees, the only one who can judge us in the finals is the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u43	Thank you. As another Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u44	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'll be a little bit - I'll start with my colleagues that it's the security of the state. Well, I know it's until March, when the deadline's cut. I believe that there is absolutely nothing to prevent the standard legislative process and there is no reason for a legislative emergency that everything can be done. We were ready to talk about it, maybe it's also a little bit about communication. It would be good to communicate with each other. But then, in a state of legislative emergency, as the Minister who is here said, I speak for the petitioner, that would perhaps be all the laws that we are discussing on the Economic Committee. Everything concerns this country's economy, how entrepreneurs will do business, what profits they will have, about employment. It is solved how we will employ foreigners in the Czech Republic, and so on. I don't remember these laws being in a state of legislative emergency. And here I am learning that this is a reason for a legislative emergency. If we use this rhetoric, the legislative emergency is everything. Please, let us consider not doing this in a legislative emergency, agree to shorten the time limits. And I believe that a little democracy would benefit this House and a little talk about the need to prepare amendments and how well this bill is prepared, or whether it is not a legislative emergency just because the Ministry has not prepared it in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u45	Thank you. I merely point out, for the record, that the negotiations are under way, including a debate, where everyone has the opportunity to comment on the subject. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to turn this time not to coalition MPs, I would like to turn to my colleagues in opposition. You guys are always discussing some details, you want to argue. You have against you 108 members of the coalition who have decided what they have decided. Friends, the more you slow down, delay the situation, the less the coalition government and the coalition MPs discuss. But you don't realize that the more they discuss, the better your election result will be, because the public is already so tense that they -- that they already have -- look, when they go to that square, where they're going to invite them, everyone who invites them to the square, they're going to have a hundred thousand. It's like people are calm here. After all, you've seen politics, you've been in politics for a long time, and you know that when someone makes mistakes and it's, it's not exactly your friend -- the enemy says, I don't like to use it in politics -- just don't cancel. Leave your colleagues and the government here to say what they're saying, she's gonna say it anyway. You know, look, they brought Ukrajinec, unfortunately it's totally undignified for me when they're staying in our recovery room, and now they want to ski with their friends, so they moved them out. Well, gentlemen, I would never do that. Well, I didn't invite them, but I would never, if I invited them, I would never evict them, because that's undignified. I had a chance to talk to these women in Slovakia. These people are really in a terrible state of need, and I can feel it very much, and they're just undignified with the conjecture here. Let the thing run as it runs, the government knows what it's doing. Well, you better believe the election's about something else. Thank you, listen to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u47	Thank you. So we have now exhausted all the factual points and now the priority rights. First Minister Šalomoun and then President Schillerová. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am still in a state of legislative emergency. As discussed in the government, the primary reason is the security, after all, the material is from the Ministry of the Interior. The security problem is that we're actually still talking about temporary protection. The temporary status of people from Ukraine ends on 31 March and then it can happen that if we do nothing, there may be hundreds of thousands of people here without proper residence privileges, which can really destabilize the entire company, and then it could be a big internal security problem. And why is the state of legislative emergency being used? Because it seems like it would actually wait until March 31st, but it really just seems like it. If you look at the proposal, he is designed in a way that needs - or the Ministry of the Interior actually needs - to have an overview of the people who will have the temporary protection extended, and therefore he is actually trying to force them to register before that March 31st, which, of course, will take some time. So it's important to have this bill approved as quickly as possible, of course approval in the House, approval in the Senate. So if this goes well, this could be in the middle of January, and then just that month and a half later, to force those 400,000 or 300,000 people, how many people there are to actually register into that system and be kept track of them, so it's going to be a pretty big problem. That is why this method of discussing this proposal has been chosen. If there was a complaint that the government might not be able to win over a ministerial proposal, believe that this is the case. And if you compare the material that went to the government and left the government here, you'll find that some of the material fell out. And really, after the government's discussion, the government sent a bill in a legislative emergency only really in the parts it thought it could pass successfully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u49	At present, I have no further application because they have withdrawn their application with priority rights, so I ask if anyone else is still applying for the debate? If no one else applies, I will conclude the debate and we will proceed to the vote. First, I will make a motion for a resolution which I will then vote on: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws." It is the House press 351, in a short hearing. Before I vote, I'm shutting you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. And I'm gonna read an apology. Jan Lipavský, Minister of Foreign Affairs, apologizes today from 16.45 for reasons of work. The number of entries has stabilized and I assume that I do not need to read the resolution again. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 25, 149 Members and Members registered, for 80, against 3. I note that the motion was... or this motion for a resolution was approved. I am now opening a government bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended, and other related laws, House press 351, shortened negotiations. The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. And please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u50	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I wish you a good evening, and so allow me to introduce this government bill called Lex Ukraine IV. Despite the fact that we are not a state in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine, we are one of the countries most affected by the refugee wave and have gained temporary protection in the Czech Republic since Putinův war in Ukraine has already gained more than 461 000 war refugees. In view of the confirmation at European Union level in October that temporary protection will be extended until March 2024, the government prepared the so-called Lex Ukraine IV, which aims to adopt rules precisely for extending temporary protection to Ukrainian refugees. The proposal envisages that foreigners who are interested in continuing their stay in the Czech Republic for temporary protection will have an electronic registration obligation until 31 March 2023. Registration will provide them with a deadline for a personal visit to the Department of the Ministry of the Interior, where they will be marked with a visa sticker in the relevant document, which will have to be completed by the foreigner by 30 September 2023. As part of the registration, there will be a comparison with data that is registered not only in our national systems but also in the EU temporary protection registration system. In the event of a conflict between a foreigner filled in data and data registered, a foreigner will be asked to remove it. For example, if the registration indicates an address other than the place of residence registered by the Czech Republic, it will be obliged to record a document of accommodation showing a legal relationship to the new address, etc. If a foreigner does not register within the specified time limit or does not appear to indicate the visa sticker after registration by the end of September 2023, temporary protection will expire. If they return to the Czech Republic from Ukraine to whom temporary protection has been granted, they may continue to reside in the Czech Republic on the basis of this status. If they have given up temporary protection, it is possible to ask for it again. In both cases, however, the benefits of this residence title can only be drawn once. It is, for example, a state-paid health insurance for the first 150 days after the granting of temporary protection. If this limit is exhausted, it shall not be renewed, even if the person gives up temporary protection or requests it again. These and other benefits are linked to a specific person, not individual requests. However, given the current development of the conflict in Ukraine and the forthcoming winter period, the arrival of another wave of refugees can not be excluded, which can affect the capacities of the Ministry of Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic. The proposal therefore envisages the possibility that the government may decide, if necessary, that the extension of temporary protection would consist only in electronic registration, i.e. foreigners extending temporary protection would not have to subsequently come for the visa sticker. In addition to extending temporary protection, other laws affecting the residence of Ukrainian refugees in the Czech Republic are being amended. For example, on the initiative of the Ministry of Health, the rules for obtaining qualifications in psychology are simplified, as demand for these services has increased significantly in relation to the arrival of persons affected by war. Rules for the entry of Ukrainian children to pre-school education and compulsory school attendance for the upcoming school year are also being adapted, thereby simplifying the rules for the expulsion of the child from kindergarten at the moment he returns with his parents back to Ukraine. The effectiveness of the bill is proposed on the first day after its publication in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u51	Thank you, Minister. The Security Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 351/1. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Martin Exner, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u52	Mr President, honourable Members, the Security Committee discussed the draft law at its 22nd meeting on 8 December 2022 and, after discussion, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree with the Government's draft law. No amendments have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u53	I thank you and we will now decide whether we will have a general debate. I'll call my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby to report to the O.R. For the record, I'll give you what we're going to vote on. I will vote on whether we will have a general debate. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 26 is signed by 149 Members, for proposal 125, against none. I note that we have approved that we will open a general debate, and I am therefore opening a general debate. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is the first registered, then Mr Hubert Lang and then Mr Radek Koten. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u54	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would also like to comment on the so-called Lex Ukraine IV, and I would like to follow up with the rapporteur of the Security Committee, who said that no amendment was adopted to the Security Committee. At the same time, he did not add that we made a proposal on this Security Committee to this day that the Minister of the Interior, who submits this law and is not present here, which I consider to be outrageous in quotation marks, because he needs to discuss this law in a legislative emergency, so there are many things missing in this law, and we have said to the Security Committee that he should add it to this law to this day, as was the case, for example, with an extraordinary tax on profits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u55	I apologise, Madame, but I will ask my fellow Members in the right side of the hall not to disturb your speech if they have a need to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u56	When we were discussing the tax on extraordinary profits, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura here presented us with a comprehensive amendment, which had 31 pages. The proposal was that in this Lex Ukraine IV, which was completely deboned in quotation marks and did not respond at all to what the captains wanted, so that at the same time there would be a solution to who would run the regional assistance centres - that is not in the proposal at all, as it will be with the long-term solution of accommodation for refugees. But, above all, what is not in this proposal is the question of social support in relation to the integration of refugees, namely the testing of income and property of refugees. This proposal was not adopted by the Security Committee, and I was very surprised that since June, when the commanders called for it, they are asking that it is not included in this lex Ukraine IV. [[18.20 hours]] I understand that if everyone should come to the asylum migration policy department in the number that we have today, and we really still don't know how many refugees in our territory are, what are the professions, what are their education, where do they live, it would take eight months. Yes, it would take a very, very long time. On the other hand, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has said here, they will have to send the registration form by 31 March 2023 and then by the end of September they will have to appear for the label, which will be inserted into their travel document. You know I've been criticizing for many months that the mayors, the chieftains, don't know how many refugees they have in their cities, regions. I keep saying that. And I think if the minister came up with this form six months ago, we could have had the data six months ago. I don't know why he's bringing it up at this point. Yes, it comes up with this because it was approved at European level in October that temporary protection would therefore be extended. At the same time, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has said one more thing here that if there were a second wave, because we can also expect that the second wave can come by really bombing the infrastructure on the part of Ukraine, and it is also announced that the government will therefore have so-called authority, which means that it can declare a so-called emergency. At that point, therefore, there would be no need for the refugee to request or appear to apply the label in the context of the extension of the temporary protection status and to obtain practically temporary protection automatically after completing the online form. Such a little seed bead, that now that we have decided on data boxes, where it was said that they will not have to be for the natural persons of the data box, practically Ukrainian refugees will have no choice but to fill out the registration form online. Well, I think the seniors are there, too, and there's moms and kids, and I think the possibility of them going somewhere, and somebody filling them out, that's the way it should have been. I think, and as it sounds from the regions, and Ivo Vondrák has already appeared here today, that you are learning that in six months - in six months - because I understand that it was difficult at the beginning of February, but that a clear system of social support is not created until now, of course, even with regard to the vulnerable group, which are seniors, mothers with children, that there are no checks on income, property ratios, that they really fill out an application online today, they will send it to the Labour Office and get a humanitarian benefit. It is not controlled at all because the systems are not connected, because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is in charge of accommodation within individuals, so he gives so-called solidarity contributions. The regions through HUMPO provide accommodation through legal persons. Minister, ask Mr Vondrák if there has been a link between these systems to the strategic group - yes, to the strategic group that Mr Vlček is still running - do you know what has been said about the strategic group? If the employment authorities should examine Ukrainian refugees in terms of property and income, so that they will not be able to pay benefits to Czech citizens. And I, Minister, take the view that we should help those in need and those in need, but, on the other hand, the Czech citizen must fill out x forms and document a lot of things when it comes to asking for benefits. And I think that if there's to be integration and adaptation here, we have to demand this from the other side, and that's not. You promised there would be checks on your part, on the part of the Police of the Czech Republic, and so on. It is clear that the labour authorities are overwhelmed and they can't handle it in any way. What I said here at the moment was said to a strategic group and it was said by representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan is a year in office. When he took over the Ministry of Interior, he complained that he had been handed over a migration plan for the arrival of 20,000 migrants, refugees. To date, he has not updated this plan. We called on him to the Security Committee, we gave a resolution, he was not approved. I mean, the plan is crucial to the authorities and the mayors. They need to know what the state of arrival of refugees, migrants, what crisis measures will be, who will secure what, to what extent. And last but not least, the updated migration plan is important for the Material Reserves Administration. I mean, ask them if they have bedding today, if they have bought things - there's no plan, there's nothing in the Material Reserves Administration. The takeover of the KACPU. The Regional Assistance Centre, which, when a refugee arrives in the Czech Republic, goes to the Regional Assistance Centre, which provides the regions and ensures it from the beginning great, excellent. They also ensure that all costs go to the edge. Of course, they get paid for these things, but they fight for how many times they wait a few months, if not six months. And when they're threatened, they're finally gonna be able to send some funds under some kind of grant program. It has now been agreed that from 1 April 2023 the Regional Assistance Centres should take over the Ministry of the Interior, or the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy. Why isn't it in the design of Lex Ukraine IV? At the same time, we learn that the 14 regional assistance centres will still be, the structure, and the so-called four assembly centres are being prepared. This should be the centre where the emergency accommodation will be provided, if necessary, for a temporary period of time before other accommodation is found. And these collection centres should be in Prague, Brno, Ostrava and Pilsen. I can't imagine how this is going to work, because a refugee who doesn't have accommodation should go to this assembly centre, and a fugitive who already has secured accommodation should go to those 14 regional assistance centres. This means that it will once again be incredibly chaos and I think that, as the structure is proposed, even if it is not closed, I think it will certainly not be well set up and it will be a great chaos again. [[18.30 hours]] At the same time, I also said one fact on the Security Committee that I get from the regions, and that is that since June, those regional assistance centres, Minister, are mostly registered by men of working age. The number continues to rise and it is said that two thirds are men of working age. That is why it is vital that these systems are connected and that the social support system that is not up to date is set up. You know very well that a fugitive receives a humanitarian dose for six months, but then it goes on to the dosage system unless, of course, he gets involved in work. You said the number went up, it was 115 grand. Would it be possible for me to answer how much of this is to the main employment, how much is to the labour agreements and work agreements? If you have this number and you have it at your disposal. Last but not least, I would like to mention that even though most refugees came to the Czech Republic - and we can talk about how the Minister of the Interior managed to do it, and we know that he wanted to get rid of responsibility by the first wave, he talked about having a national coordinator, and then we could talk about how he did it, but from 1 January the Minister of the Interior will get rid of that responsibility because he doesn't want it anymore at the Ministry of the Interior, and from 1 January he will lead the strategic group, according to the information we have, not Mr Vlček, that means not the firefighters, but Mrs.Klára Laurenčíková, who is the Government Human Rights Commissioner. I am convinced that the Minister of the Interior is the head of the Central Crisis Staff, and if there is a refugee crisis here, if there is, as far as security and all these matters are concerned, the Minister has chosen it, he wants to be the Minister of the Interior, he is to manage it and he is to be responsible for it. That's just the way it is. I think I have said here a number of reasons why the YES movement certainly supports help, and again I say that we need to help those people who need help. But I have also said this on the Security Committee that we cannot support this House press precisely because it does not contain what it should contain, what is troubling the actors in the territories, those who do it every day. This is, above all, that there is not solved both the question of social support in testing the income and property of refugees, there is not solved the operation of regional assistance centres, there is not solved the long-term solution of accommodation for refugees. For this reason, as we have already announced today, for this press, the lex Ukraine IV, not that we will oppose it, but because you have not been able to submit it to this House press in six months, we will therefore abstain during the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u57	Thank you, too. Have a nice evening. Now there are two speakers with a factual record, namely first Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u58	Thank you very much. I will take the liberty of responding to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, because she asked about the things that are part of the material, which are part of the reason message, but I am here to respond to them. For example, the online registration - and for the rest of you, please, nicely - concerns only those who ask for extension, i.e. those who the state and the state's components physically had to see. That's for sure. So the way you put it here, there's some kind of security risk and all that, it just doesn't make sense. Then, of course, we also monitor information and data within the social system, the systems are connected. We've got the inside data we're pairing up. We've also done several on-site investigations, in big cities, in mid-towns, paired it up, checked to see if the information fits. If you were among those people, you know there's been a lot of complaints over the past few months about how we've tightened up the system. We started to demand that the addresses fit. If it does not fit, the humanitarian benefit is not granted, the applicants have a problem and these things must be brought into line from the point of view of information on the territory of the Czech Republic. I'll just take the liberty of reacting. When we look at the data from the humanitarian benefit, we received the most requests in May, and it was 237 655 people who requested a humanitarian benefit. When I look at date 1. The 12th month of November, that's 81 743 people. The significant decline is quite obvious. Of course, then we have a breakdown on the detailed regions. We know exactly where these people are, we know who people started working for us. Today, almost 80 percent of the 115,000 people who work work work either on employment or have insurance agreements. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u59	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Jiří Mašek, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u60	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to my honored colleague Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová, who has raised a question here about the Minister and discussed the numbers of employees. There was a number of 115,000 Ukrainian refugees employed here. I would like to remind you - and I drew it from the Labor Office data - that at the end of February, at the time that the conflict arose, when Putin attacked Ukraine, we had 210,000 Ukrajinec employed here according to the Labor Office data, of which 122,000 were men, the rest - I can't deduct it now - were women. What happened in five months. At the end of July of this year, according to data from the Labour Office of 249 000 refugees, 122 000 of them - so these men have not changed - and 39 000 Ukrainian women have been involved. Now we have another four months. I don't know about the new data. I was able to get these data. The numbers just don't add up, just like the numbers don't add up on the health insurance companies, they don't fit the numbers in the schools. This is that Minister Rakušan, although we have appealed to him to start the registration, if possible electronically, and not have to wait for him to advise him in Europe sometime in October, we wanted him and his people to start working on it continuously from the start, so they did not. So the result is chaos and mess. The Minister just can't handle it. I'm sorry he's in America. I'd like to say it to his face here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Mr David Pražák is now in session with another de facto enrollment, and Minister Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u62	Good evening. I'd like to ask, Minister - I know it's probably not up to you, but since you're already representing the Home Secretary here - what's the case for a particular case. We went to see our town yesterday because fugitives are staying in a fellowship organization. I don't want to put everyone in one bag. There are those who treat the accommodation in some way, but there are those who just find it hard to explain. We ran into a room where young Ukrajinec, who were in their 20's, were legally there because KACPU normally assigned them there. They don't go to work, they sleep during the day, and they wander around the city at night. I'd like to know what happens to them after March 1st, if they're gonna register remotely now, and they're gonna be wandering around, or what's gonna happen to them. [[18.40 hours]] I don't want to, like I said in the beginning, I don't want to throw everyone in the same bag. We've got women who normally go to work, kids go to school. Some do, some don't, it's hard to put together. But what happens to these people who just don't want to adjust in any way here, and they're more or less just going for doses? I really don't mean it wrong. I'd like to know what happens to these people. Because it all looks like it's black and white, but it's not. We now have Ukrainian refugees in the city of 200 or 187, of which 80 men are from 18 to 60 years of age. That doesn't seem completely systemic to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u63	Thank you for keeping the time, now with the response in the de facto minister and then we have signed up another de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u64	Thank you. With the numbers. The numbers that were here before the beginning of the war, the number of people from Ukraine who worked here, that's one set of people that has nothing to do with the data that I'm presenting here when it comes to the people who entered the labour market, and it's people who have already been given temporary protection. These are two different sets of people. So once again, since the beginning of the war on the Czech labour market, around 150,000 people have started to work, who have come from Ukraine and obtained temporary protection or visa patience. Since some of these people and the territory of the Czech Republic have left the current figures, we are now talking about mid-December that about 115 000 people are currently working. These are those who had a visa for patience or temporary protection. As regards questions regarding the social system, yes, we are preparing a proposal that concerns our legislation when it comes to 1. 4. to adjust and tighten the conditions for payment of the humanitarian benefit. We will also be able to pair systems better in terms of data from our colleagues in Ukraine, and we will also make a change in solidarity contributions to the solidarity household, where we will allow these people, people who come from Ukraine and are refugees in our territory, to have the support they have today with individuals who provide accommodation, so that they can actually have it in principle with legal persons, so that we can gradually get them into some normal housing system from those residential hotels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u65	Thank you. Have a nice evening, we took turns in meeting management. We will continue with the factual remark made by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. Responses to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I said, of course, and I believe that if such a large number of refugees had to appear somewhere to stick a label, I think it would be appropriate that, when they come, they could get the data and, at the same time, they could get the label. This is how they send an online form by 31 March and arrive for the label in the document by September. You here, Minister, are telling us how everything is watered by the sun, how great everything is, how well you manage everything, and at the same time you will tell us that on April 1st, you will finally have a social support system that will tighten up the payment of a humanitarian benefit. So I guess everything's not what it's supposed to be. And I'm asking you, why isn't it already included in Lex Ukraine IV? I think six months is a long time to prepare it. And I think that we, as we want Czech citizens, should be set up as part of integration, adaptation, should be here by now and you should have brought it to Lex Ukraine IV. That's why we're telling you we can't support this, and that's why we're staying. And it's your responsibility, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u67	With another factual remark, Mr Mašek will speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd rather take it on the paper now. February - 209 600 working Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. End of July, turn of July August - 248 900. Labor Office detail. In both cases, the first and second, February and the end of July, of which 122,000 men. In other words, 39 300 Ukrainian women were employed in the Czech Republic by the end of July and thanks to them. And it just doesn't add up, Minister. These are your authorities, so check these numbers, they've been published officially. And for me, the number 115,000 is misleading, because I assume the authorities don't distinguish you and you. Because what 39 900 other than refugees would increase there, specifically women? Your argument was odd. And, of course, I'm saying again, wrong records, we don't know about the movements, and we have to admit that for us unknown numbers of Ukrajinec have left this republic, others are coming here again. And I am, of course, in favour of having it caught up, but it should have been done sooner, and not to discover it now and deal with it in a legislative emergency from day to day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u69	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Lang will appear. Before he gets here, I'll read one apology. Mr Pavel Svoboda apologizes from 18.10 hours for work reasons. Mr President, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues. There's been a rather wild discussion. For some of you who may not be so familiar with this issue, logically everyone can't know everything, and there is no Home Secretary present, so I would like to start by commenting on a few paragraphs, when it is one of the reasons that I, too, can't just vote for it. But I would like to begin by saying that I have already seen some press on the radio, or it was on the Internet that the ANO movement is now fundamentally against the Ukrajinec and against the Lex Ukraine IV. It's not like that. And I'm gonna try to disprove it here in some way, why our position that we discussed at our club today, and there were different opinions, and then we're gonna be staying tonight. Of course, we are discussing this in a state of legislative emergency, it is indeed a tragedy from a point of view, when I personally believe that we should have devoted classic time to it, simply to go through it, perhaps through some speedy procedure, so that we can say our own thing about it. By not being here, I would start by calming it down a little bit, and I would return to the very beginning, when since the beginning of March, when Ukrainian refugees began to leave their country before the result of the war aggression of the Russian Federation, which no one doubts, it is the conflict of Russian-Ukrainian, the Czech Republic has clearly supported, helped and helped refugees, and since the attack of Ukraine we have sent both financial and material and military assistance. Here, you must clearly give us the truth that the YES movement has supported all such sensible proposals and we have always clearly opposed Ukraine's aggression that the Russian Federation has raised there. By the end of this year we have legally provided assistance to almost 490,000 Ukrainian refugees. In the number of inhabitants the Czech Republic is really first, if not second, similarly to the size but also Poland. But the Czech Republic has really accepted a huge number of these refugees for its size, which have managed to provide accommodation, financial assistance and health insurance in the Czech Republic and related health care, school attendance of primary school pupils and the necessary capacity of study in secondary and possibly universities. So we are among the states that are among the highest in the world in helping Ukraine in the number of inhabitants. It certainly belongs to thanks, and many times it has been mentioned here, in particular to citizens, municipalities, municipalities, municipalities, that is to say, by government, simply to individual self-government, on which the burden came first in line, when, of course, we were in a situation where no one was counting on such a situation. I will mention the migration plan of a large scale, which was at the Ministry of the Interior and only counted on the influx of 20,000 refugees, and that was still a bit different from the hundreds of thousands of people of Ukraine who fled from the conflict of war. [[18.50 hours]] Government compensation and registration, where quantity but won over quality, we discussed for example on the Security Committee and we criticized it. Here I would like to say that we really have some reservations about this, but we also offer a helping hand. We have always made some suggestions, given some suggestions, some of which have been responded to, some of which have not been answered since the beginning of March, April. And paradoxically, in the individual Lexes of Ukraine, which have been accepted since the beginning of the conflict, and logically, as it has been clarified and so on, and we have learned to work with such a huge influx of migrants, paradoxically then on some of our proposals, even as we always say - late, but it has been accepted. In the next part of my speech, I would like to say that, in response to the large-scale migration wave that was triggered by the military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, for the first time, the European Union has been activated in history by Article. Council Directive 2001/55/EC on the basis of which temporary protection was declared in the territory of the European Union in March 2022 for persons fleeing the territory of Ukraine. We have also reached the directive here several times in the context of the previous lexes. Then, before I go to the Lex Ukraine IV, I would quote some paragrafo texts that I have some reservations about from this directive. In response to this step, several laws have been adopted in the Czech Republic, which are collectively referred to as lex Ukraine. This is what we called ourselves and we have lex Ukraine I, II, III and we are currently discussing lex Ukraine IV, whose aim was to regulate specific rules on movement, social security, education or health insurance of these incoming foreigners. In particular, it is Law No. 65/2022, this is the classic one relating to the foreign law, which mainly governs the residence regime of refugees and specific health insurance issues, Act No. 66/2022 containing questions related to the security of refugees, humanitarian benefits, contributions, solidarity households and the like, and Act No. 67/2022, regulation of school issues, which of course has something to do with this. At a time when the Council of the European Union decided to activate the temporary protection mechanism, it was not possible to predict - and no one really could have predicted that, even if the YES movement were a government party, no one really could have predicted at the beginning how it would develop, when the conflict of war and the associated migration wave would end. That is why temporary protection has been announced - and here are the first dates - until 31 March 2023. Then I quote a few paragraphs from the European directive that talks about these terms. Thus, even national adjustments continue to count on all measures to be or should have been terminated after the first year, when we could not have assumed that the conflict would somehow freeze there, and we were all secretly hoping that the crazy thing, the war, would somehow be over. And we say that we really need to bring about the maximum possible negotiations, and even here as the House, I believe, we have adopted a resolution when we have committed the Czech Government to take all possible steps and measures to end this conflict, because, of course, it is crazy when people on both sides of the front die. The measures adopted should be terminated by 31 March 2023. From the logic of the matter, today in December 2022, we all know that, while there are already some slight indications of negotiations, the conflict of war continues and most likely will not be completed by 31 March 2023. Therefore, I fully understand that the current government coalition with lex Ukraine IV is coming in, trying to adjust some conditions for a temporary stay - not for troops, but for the temporary stay of Ukrajinec who are in our territory - to continue under some conditions clearly defined. However, the current course of the conflict in Ukraine does not indicate that it could really be close to ending it. It looks more like there's going to be some escalation. It was therefore decided at European Union level to extend temporary protection until March 2024. Once again, the European directive talks about this, with reference to Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And now I would just briefly mention the directive that I have here before me. By the time I was working on the foreign police years ago, this directive was adopted in 2001 and was never actually applied because no one had ever assumed that there would be such a large movement at the level of the war conflict in Europe. We had enough of our migration plans. Therefore, there is still only a large migration plan for 20,000 refugees per year at the Ministry of the Interior, which was assumed to be the most catastrophic option that could affect the Czech Republic. So Council Directive 2001/55/EC of 20 July 2001 on minimum standards - and please, here is the important thing - about minimum standards for providing temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and measures to establish a balance between Member States in making efforts in connection with the adoption of these persons and the consequences of this. We have already discussed whether a particular paragraph is more helpful, less helpful to the Ukrajinec, if there is no abuse on their part. Logically, there will always be a group of people who will take advantage of the hand-to-hand, and there will be some things going on. I would just quote, for example, a paragraph. 8 of that Directive, which states: "It is essential to draw up certain minimum standards for providing temporary protection in the case of a mass influx of displaced persons and to adopt measures to ensure equilibrium' - a balance - 'between Member States in making efforts to recruit and dealing with the consequences of this'. The Czech Republic, as I said, adopted 480,000 refugees in order. We also asked about the Security Committee, and we had such answers that in order to manage it well, to integrate people, to stay well on the borders, children could go to school, to provide health care, it was possible for people to be able to work and so on, so the Czech Republic had estimates of 2.5 percent of its population. That means about 250,000 people we would be able to accept. We got once that much, we made half a million. One of our reservations to the current government coalition is, where's the ceiling? And here, in fact, this European directive also talks about ensuring some balance, and then, when the balance is not and there is some deviation that there is much more population in a particular country, there must simply be some European mechanisms that will somehow redistribute incoming migrants. We still don't know what the situation will be, if in a week, two weeks, a month, as we pointed out, even Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová pointed out to the Security Committee, we really don't know if x trains from areas without electricity will be here in a month, and it's cold out there, and these people might show up here. And I am completely missing a ceiling in lex Ukraine IV, some income ceiling, when the Czech Republic simply says: Yes, we are able to accept, say, 2.5 percent of our population, we have accepted - 5% of the Ukrainians today - and I simply do not see any ceiling there and from the government coalition, nor from the Minister of the Interior Rakušan, and I will probably not even know the ceiling from Minister Jurečka. So it's really worth considering if in the current difficult economic situation... [[It's being silenced for the noise in the room.]] I can't hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u71	Yes, Ambassador, I understand, and I will ask the other colleagues in the room to keep their voices down and, if necessary, transfer their discussions to the foyer. Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u72	Thank you, and I hope I didn't lose that thread. So I really don't know if the Czech Republic could accept such a large amount of money, because we already know that we have a deficit state budget, we just have a general crisis, we have a crisis in our country and we say that we have to help. Of course, and we are happy to help not only foreigners, but we must also help our citizens, from whose taxes all these things are paid. I have registered an article today by the Minister of Finance Stanjura, who says that who cannot distinguish that the average income level of those Ukrainian refugees is at 25 billion, that there was talk of 50 billion, that it is only, only! 1% of the state budget... It seems to me that even CZK 25 billion is a very large, very large amount. [[19.00 hours]] About the directive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The purpose of this Directive is to lay down minimum standards for the provision of temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons from third countries. I've said that before. What is spoken of as temporary protection? That's the termus tech we use here, it's the temporary protection visa. Please do not confuse this with the asylum law that the Czech Republic has adopted, where there is a visa for some temporary patience and so on. This institute, indeed, is talking about this directive and it has been implemented into all lexes. Temporary protection means the management of an exceptional nature which, in the event of a mass influx or imminent mass influx of displaced persons from third countries who cannot return to the country of origin, provides immediate and temporary protection for those persons, particularly if there is a certain risk that the asylum system will not be able to deal with this large influx. This is exactly what happened in the Czech Republic. We have certain capacities in the Asylum, Migration Policy Department. Those people, when they started coming here before the Lex Ukraine I came up, we started thinking about going under the asylum law, which is a little different, a little differently sets the parameters, a little differently sets out the conditions of those foreigners in terms of such a place of residence, fulfilling certain requirements, and, above all, we really capacitively in that huge amount, the tide in those first weeks was unable to handle under the asylum law, and that is why it applied for the first time and this directive applied for the first time. Therefore, if we are unable to deal with the asylum system, there must be another instrument, and this is lex Ukraine, which individual Member States of the European Union have started to apply after some agreement. And I will get to that, too, about the application, because here this umbrella or roofing European directive speaks in general, and then every Member State can adjust the conditions according to some of its other regulations. And here, for example, I say for us that we have often very generously set the parameters and we have some indications that the generously set hand in the social area, in humanitarian benefits, and in other things unfortunately, some of the arrivals have been abused. [[Noise in the hall.]] For the purposes of this Directive, the temporary protection for us is binding here in Article 3 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) where it is said that persons are fleeing the armed conflict area, so that it is precisely to be applied by lex Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u73	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you again. There is a noise in the hall that other Members are complaining that they are not listening. Once again, I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to transfer the discussions from the benches in the hall to the foyer. Thank you. This applies to the left side of the hall as well as to the right. kolega, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u74	Thank you. I'm gonna try to keep going, because it's not exactly easy. In this directive, I continue to come to Chapter 2, where, once again, the duration and duration of temporary protection are important for us. Some may ask colleagues, we have there March 23, 2023, here the European directive, which is a transcription for us, means that we are members of the European Union, so we have to follow it in some way. And here it has again been observed that, without prejudice to another article in this directive, temporary protection takes one year. So in March next year, we're going to get to the first point, to the first punkt, and that's that there's going to be runners here for one year, unless they're done again according to Art. 6 which, in turn, determines when, under which conditions the temporary protection is terminated, for example, that the conflict of war will end, as I pointed out, because it can be applied precisely to Ukrainian refugees, so the duration can be automatically extended by a period of six months, but not more than one year. We here in lex Ukraine IV speak under some conditions when there will be an extension of people who are already here in the territory, and that is the electronic form - I will then get in paragrafo - that we are essentially assuming that the war conflict will not be ended. [[Visas?]] [[on top of that]] Therefore, it will not be possible for temporary protection to be terminated under the directive, and we assume that we automatically extend for those persons who are already in our territory and have granted temporary protection status by one year automatically, which means by 23 March 2024... 2023 therefore, that will be the year, and it will be written for another year until 23 March 2024. So this is the last time we would have to start dealing with these foreigners in any other way - either Europe will agree to amend this directive, or we would have to go into the classic foreign law, start talking about them as foreigners, for example, with a long-term stay in the territory of the Czech Republic, where we look at them again from the point of view of some benefits, accommodation, belongings, in a completely different way, yes? So we know so far, and you are proposing that this status of residence of foreigners with a temporary protection visa will be extended automatically until 23 March 2024. And we have to count on it, we have to prepare for it, that's what we point out. The social system must prepare for this, the school system must prepare for it, the municipalities must prepare for it in terms of providing accommodation, that those persons, if there is a conflict of war and they fled the area for the sake of saving their lives and the like, so they will stay here until 2024 at least. After that, I'm going to walk further through the directive, and I'd like to get to the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 is said: "Member States shall accept persons entitled to request temporary protection in the spirit of Community solidarity. Express numerically or in general terms what their capacity for receiving such persons is.' In general terms, it means that we - here nothing prevented us from saying: The Czech Republic has 10,5 million inhabitants, I said that we would be able to do as standard - and I believe that even Mr. Governor Vondrák would confirm this - that let's say 250,000 people, 250,000, spread over fourteen regions, we might be able to accommodate in some way, engage in the system of education, health and so on. But we in Lex Ukraine IV, even though we have that possibility here, put some ceiling on it, we don't have it there. We've asked many times about the Security Committee, how many of these people are really coming? And Minister Rakušan told us that he was unable to predict it. I get it, on the one hand, but really, the country has 40 million inhabitants, and if every fourth Ukrajinec gets together, and since these people usually go where they have roots, we can't handle it here, okay? And if anybody says we can do it, I'm saying to the counter that we can't do it. "It will therefore be expressed numerically or in general terms, what is their capacity for accepting these people" - so we could have said a long time ago, and we have a Presidency in the European Union: Yes, we have already opened our arms very much, we may have behaved better than we did during the migration crisis in 2015, when Western states were blaming us for acting in the tidal wave, as we behaved, yes, we did not want quotas for any reason, we did not want to cooperate so much, but in this part of the migration wave we behaved very well. We've accepted half a million applicants, we've provided temporary protection for almost half a million people, maybe we can do something else, but why don't we put that term there, some kind of indication, if we're essentially going to have that article here. 25 offers? For the adoption of this Decision, Member States may, by way of notification to the Council and the Commission, notify further acceptance capacities. This means that nothing has prevented Minister Rakušan from saying: The Czech Republic is on its ceiling, don't be angry, colleagues, but we will not accept any more refugees from Ukraine, because when these people arrive at us, they ask for KACPU and start running with them the granting procedure, not providing temporary protection, so then you can't just manipulate the foreigner and according to the directives, you can't move him, he already has certain claim items, for example, for the purpose of merging the family and so on, and it's not that easy. So there's a little bit of bad luck that we didn't come to this at the time we were president of the country. Article 2 (1) (a) 26, point one: "For the duration of temporary protection, Member States shall cooperate with each other with regard to the relocation of persons using temporary protection from one Member State to another' - here is what I am talking about - 'and subject to the consent of persons'. [[Those who enjoy themselves?]] This means that these people may already be able to comment on this in some way and you are already less able to manipulate them, yes, if we were to find out that - I don't know - Bulgaria has, for example, more capacity or Slovakia has free capacities, you can't manipulate them that much anymore. [[19.10 hours]] In Chapter 8, there are special provisions that also refer to the conditions under which someone is excluded from temporary protection. Then I'll get to the one in lex Ukraine IV, where someone can end temporary protection. We have such an interesting institute where temporary protection simply ends when the person fails to comply with any legal reasons such as login with an electronic form, or simply does not communicate for some reason to me unknown. Just when I'm somewhere, I try to do these things when someone's giving me some help, and then I ask, too, and it's not even mentioned in lex Ukraine what's going to happen to those people. Member States may exclude a person from providing temporary protection under certain conditions, provided that there are serious grounds for believing that the person has committed a serious crime. We asked the Security Committee about, for example, the Ukrajinec, and I want it to be said here, too, what is the criminal activity of the Ukrajinec in connection with the fact that we have actually 490,000 extra people here. We had almost 280,000 Ukrajinec here before the outbreak of the war. The criminal activity of Ukrajinec in the past was around 1,500 crimes, such as the more serious ones, in about a year. We learned from the police leadership that the crime had gone up and that it had gone up by about 500 felonies. That means about 2,000 felonies, the more serious ones, are committed by Ukrajinec in proportion to the incoming ones, not really enough, not much. The question is whether 500 serious crimes are too few or too many. It depends from what point of view, especially for people who are somehow affected by this, such as Czech citizens, they somehow get involved. Of course, they often have problems with each other, there are some driving under the influence of alcohol, some dealing with some fights, fights and other things, but there is also some criminal activity that is associated with Czech citizens. There are a number of possibilities where temporary protection may be terminated for those persons. There may also be some reasons that this person might endanger the security of the host Member State or that, given that fact, this might be a very serious offence. Persons excluded by a Member State from providing temporary protection or ensuring family reunification shall be entitled to appeal in that Member State. That is, if I go back to the Lex Ukraine IV, which in one paragraph talks about the conditions under which temporary protection is terminated, then of course there is an appeal, we are in a democratic state, so that person can appeal to it. Now I would have gotten here, please - a lot of things have finally been said here by Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, by Dr. Mašek, by other colleagues, by most of our members of the Security Committee, but I would just like to point out to you that, of course, the law that is being formed is not entirely perfect and there are things that are so special. The condition that has been here since March 23rd, about nine months, is particularly strange. If we were ever more tolerant at the beginning of April, if we were at some point in May, at most in June, we could be more tolerant, because objectively I say that if we were in a situation of the ruling party, we would, say, have held the Ministry of the Interior, we would have to deal with a whole series of things in the same way, if not similar to what Minister Rakušan is dealing with. I want it to be said here because we don't agree very often enough, we often have some reservations together, but there are a lot of things that haven't been done wrong. The fact that they were made from our point of view maybe... that it took a long time, it's not entirely perfect, that's the second question. So, subject of adjustment. Already § 1 lex Ukraine IV talks about the conditions granted for temporary protection of foreigners being laid down by some condition for its extension. Once again, we've extended by a year here, we can extend by another year. Temporary protection means a residence permit in the Czech Republic under the temporary protection of foreigners in order to provide temporary protection in the Czech Republic following a Council decision. Actually, here's the reference to the directive, which is why I quoted it earlier. When I pass through, I actually get to § 5 para. 4 and there I pulled out such things that are changed against the Lex Ukraine III, and in this paragraph. 4 says: "The granting of temporary protection is marked by foreigners in the travel document" - before that, there was a "visa label on the travel document," now it is crossed out, there is only a "visa label until 31 March 2024" on the travel document. And now there is an interesting second sentence from the point of view of expertise: "If, in the light of the local conditions for granting temporary protection, it is possible to make a record of the granting of temporary protection in a travel document," and then the conclusion is: "or outside of it." So actually, Section 4 says that either we have a foreigner with a travel document, then we give him a visa sticker. If we don't have a visa sticker for any reason that the state hasn't prepared for it or it doesn't, we won't grant a visa sticker, and if we don't have a passport and we don't have a visa sticker, we don't really have to grant it on any kind of document. This means that it can only be a border guide, which is a regular piece of paper, on which a visa is simply issued from behind, which please entitles you to the person who can reside in the territory of the European Community, can travel freely between individual Member States, is the recipient of a humanitarian benefit, is the recipient of health insurance for 150 days and has it posted on some piece of paper. Then I'll get to it. When I think that, after nine months of cooperation with the Ukrainian embassy with those who fled from the place of battle, let's say, they really could have packed at the last minute, they didn't have the documents, so in nine months we have the state, we have the embassy here, he could have exposed these people, and thus identify them for our terms, replacement travel document or some travel document of Ukraine, into which we could post the visa sticker. It seems like triviality, but please, it's quite important since we want to identify these people here and we really want to keep track that those people are the people who prove to us that they are the persons, because at the beginning of that income... I can't hear...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u75	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I understand. Once again, fellow Members, I would like you to pay attention to the Member, or you have left the O.R. Thank you very much and please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u76	Thank you. I really can't even hear myself here. So thank you for really focusing on the press - especially here, who is interrupting - which costs CZK 25 billion a year, and I think it is also pretty crucial for the security of the Czech Republic. And thank you for paying so much attention. Where was I? So here I am saying and accusing the Ministry of the Interior, accusing the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan, that there should have been pressure on the Ukrainian side at least from summer, so that persons who had no travel document by then would be issued some replacement travel document from Ukraine, into which our authorities of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy were then able to post a visa sticker. And here, of course, the legislator had a nice drink, like I said - if he didn't have a receipt, it might not be there. They just covered the whole spectrum beautifully. I don't understand. It is also mentioned here in Article 2 (2) (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 6 that the applicant for temporary protection is obliged to submit a travel document to the application - here you can see that it is actually excluded there - which he holds and on request photo. There's no mention of biometrics being scanned, that is, fingerprints. Fingerprints are unique, you just don't have a different thumb, we're every authentic and so on, and in connection with the possible abuse of these doses. I'm here at the beginning of the year when I first spoke here about Lex Ukraine I, so Mr. Rakušan said here that he had to breathe us out because we're overtaking some things. Please, we have some experience that not everyone who comes and wants to stay here for some reason is completely crystal and it's all right. It just came and came and came and there will be a group of people who aren't going to be quite okay, and in order to make some sort of order in order to unite the records, it is, of course, ideal for fingerprinting. Fingerprints were being picked up so I wouldn't just criticize again, and the police were picking up people who didn't have an ID or have no I.D. I'm talking about it here, and I'm missing it here in order to take fingerprints from people who are receiving certain benefits here, they're asking here, and they're going to be given temporary protection in overtime. I'll keep going...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u77	Before you continue, I will ask again, colleagues, really try to respect the speaker's right, even if you do not care or his arguments are not valid for you to allow him to make his contribution. Thank you so much. Alternatively, please dedicate the discussion space somewhere else, perhaps in the foyer. Thank you, and Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u78	Thank you. I'm gonna try to speed this up, but there's really a couple of paragraphs that touch, and it's affecting the mayors, it's touching the authorities, and it's just not quite there, it's not quite there, even though we've made some suggestions. For example, Section 6a, which is also partly new, is mentioned here, and some colleagues mentioned here that the Ministry of the Interior will cancel the data on the location of the residence report, because we always say that we are still saying that we do not have a clear overview of where the persons are moving, where the persons are staying. There's just some confusion. The visibility of the person at that address is very difficult. And here the legislator actually speaks - and I think we should adopt laws that are enforceable, adopt laws that we really not only write to be written on paper, but also to be applied to the practice - here it is not a new paragraph, but in this Section 6a v paragraph. 3 is said: "The Ministry of Interior will cancel data on the location of the residence report if the foreigner does not stay on the place of residence for more than 15 days, based on information" - and now "for (a) Police of the Czech Republic, in the case of the organizational branch of the state or state enterprise in which the foreigner is staying or the municipality where the foreigner has the place of residence in the territory of the Czech Republic." Here we have to say objectively that, in fact, the police are not able to carry out the residence check consistently with a large number of these foreigners. We wrote it here, we have written it, we have agreed, but you can see for ourselves that we have been pointing out that we really do not know, we do not have an overview of these people, we do not know how they are moving in the Czech Republic. Those persons do not fulfil their legal obligations, like they have to log in to a certain date and so on, and it's a little bit on the water. I am already getting to certain things, such as flat-rate reimbursement of accommodation costs. The amount of flat-rate compensation is here in some range from CZK 200 to CZK 350. We know that if we provide accommodation for three Ukrainian refugees, it can be up to CZK 9,000 in a month, if they are provided with an apartment or a separate apartment unit, it can be up to CZK 15,000. In the first six months after the arrival, those people, when first registered, can receive a humanitarian benefit, which is six times CZK 5,000. It brings great passion in relation to the difficult social economic situation we are in today, and we, as the YES movement, have always said here: Yes, let us help refugees, but we must not forget the Czech people too. We keep saying that, we just can't have money just for someone. We need to be able to guarantee why we are actually helping these people, but we also need to find money for Czech taxpayers who are getting into some difficult social situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u79	I'm gonna interrupt you again. I see you're already lifting your colleagues out of the chair, so I'm gonna ask them to sit down and quiet down so you can continue, but this time it's headed for your fellow MPs. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u80	Thank you. There's a couple of paragraphs that are brand-new, and that's those paragraphs 7, whatever it is, "A," "B," "C," "D." It is really a whole, a whole spectrum of paragraphs, where I would just remind you that, for example, in Section 7b, there is a pretty important thing that to extend temporary protection - my colleague Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová has already mentioned this - a foreigner is obliged to register through an electronic form which is published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. No other procedure shall be taken into account. The registration is completed by sending the registration confirmation to the e-mail address, which the foreigner will enter in the registration form. The registration certificate shall include the date and place where the foreigner is to appear for the extension of temporary protection. The Minister here spoke of the fact that, in essence, this concerns foreigners who already have temporary protection in the territory of the Czech Republic. We here, on the one hand, say that we only need an electronic log-in, but in the other sentence, we say that then they have a deadline for those people to come somewhere. That means it's half a million people or I don't know, three quarters of a million, less than half a million people who - on the one hand, we're going to make it easier on them by electronic form, and on the other hand, those people have to go to some date that was mentioned here, it's going to take eight months to get somewhere. Here I see again that it is simply written here, but how are you practically going to implement it in the asylum migration policy unions in the personnel situation? I'm just pointing it out. That's one of the reasons why I'm staying, too, because this is practically unenforceable. And of course, the very last thing I would touch in paragraph 7 is a foreigner who, until 31 March, is such a deadline for him, 2023 does not register for the extension of temporary protection under this law, the temporary protection will expire by the end of that day. The visa shall not be affixed to any person who has not entered the visa sticker after the registration has been carried out, or the visa sticker has not been marked on the grounds that the document has not been endorsed, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article. 5 or 6 temporary protection shall expire on that date. And there's no line on what's next, what's next with this guy. He's gonna lose his temporary protection visa, so what? For that reason, which I have named here, because there really are a lot of things that are not tuned, there are a lot of things that are just written on paper, and practical implementation and enforcement of certain things are not possible from my point of view, so I will probably stick around if I don't oppose it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u81	Your performance brought up two factual points. First point of fact - Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u82	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As long as my colleague Lang was longer, I'll be shorter. I would like to say one important thing, and I firmly believe that I am not just speaking for myself. The debate and criticism is not that we do not want to help Ukrainian refugees, it is precisely the opposite. And I am saying this because the process of adapting and integrating these refugees is scrubbing, dragging and not even preparing it properly. And that's why I'm saying here one more time, by this law, Lex Ukraine IV, we're just putting the problem away and we're not going to solve it by delaying it. So please, let's face it, we need to figure this out, and let's figure this out as soon as possible so that these people can live the way the rest of us live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u83	Another point in fact, Mr Bělobrádek - cancels his point in fact. Then we return to the general debate and Mr Koten will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Most of the stuff here was actually said. I'd just like to point out a few weaknesses here, which I'm most sorry that they haven't been resolved in the bill proposal. And I think that the very first thing that caught me off guard was in the explanatory memorandum in the area where the Financial Impact on the Czech Republic's budget was written, so it was mentioned to my surprise that it would not have a major impact on the Czech Republic's budget and that the Ministry of the Interior would sort it out within the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. It was so alibiistic, because it is expenditure on biometrics, of course it is already increased to 2023, so it is really coming from the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, but the impact on the budget of the entire Czech Republic will be huge. I would very much like the government to be able to communicate in some way here and to give at least some predictions on the impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic, because since there has already been a loan from the European Development Bank of approximately CZK 10 billion, I am concerned that it is not mentioned there. Next thing I knew, there was an impact on security in the Czech Republic. And, as usual, it was mentioned there that it is assumed that the impact on security in the Czech Republic will also not affect it. When I opposed the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior because information appears that crimes including murder, drugs and so on are happening in this community, I was told that this is happening mostly in their community and that this does not significantly affect the rest of the population in the Czech Republic. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] [[19.30 hours]] I'd like to go back to electronic registration. Of course, I understand that people who are here and the data about them have been collected in some way, so they should be re-registered in some way for an extension or for a stay-prolongation. I'm sure the authorities aren't able to handle it at once, because that's really a lot. On the other hand, when I asked if it was treated in any way so that registrations could not occur from abroad, or whether it would be possible to identify where the applicant, who could then receive support and social support here and so on, could be cured here, I was told that the interior would not want to verify it. So from my point of view, it can actually happen that the applicants will register from another state or register from another state, and then they will be able to receive benefits without being in the Czech Republic for six months. For this reason, it seems to me to be unfinished, unfinished, and there is room for us to know that we will not know for six months if the user is really in the Czech Republic before he is asked to go to his passport or in some other replacement collection document or what it will be dealt with. For these few reasons, it is quite clear to me that, in this form, we cannot support this because, given the energy crisis and the other crisis, when our citizens are very deep in their pockets, unfortunately, many people no longer see the way out of this situation in which the government of Petr Fiala is taking them, and unfortunately, they are ending their lives. Voluntarily, involuntaryly. So there are a lot of cases where, unfortunately, a citizen of the Czech Republic jumped out of the Labor Office because she found out that basically benefits wouldn't cover her household costs, he's been shot in front of the Office of the Government and the cases are increasing. There was a subway today because someone jumped under the subway. So I think that in this situation costs should be calculated primarily and we should take care of citizens in the Czech Republic, which unfortunately...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u85	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you and ask you to calm down in the room again. I understand that it is late evening, yet I ask all colleagues to keep their voice down and allow Mr Koten to finish his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u86	Thank you. It's almost over. So, in this form, I think, and in this approval regime, as has essentially been presented here in a legislative emergency, we really cannot support it in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u87	Thank you very much. Now there are two factual points - the first Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u88	I'm sorry, I'm very sorry to do this, but since this has been said repeatedly today, I just want to state that the person who committed suicide yesterday on a building where there are also rented premises of the Labor Office, the report from the police is clear, the suicide was not related to the work of the Labour Office and the rejection of this person in a batch agenda. She wasn't at the counter at all. So I would like to ask my colleagues: do not drag these things into your political performances here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u89	The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mr Vomáčka, please. In the meantime, before he gets to the counter, I'll load up the apologies. President Pekarová Adamová apologises from 19 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Lubomír Brož apologises from 19 o'clock without giving any reason, Mr Vojtěch Munzar apologises from 19 o'clock for reasons of work and Mr Petr Sadovský apologises from 19 o'clock for reasons of work. Please, Ambassador, two minutes, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u90	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I usually stand here to restrain my emotions, but until now I have enjoyed the situation here. But I was quite raised from the chair by my previous speaker, through Mr President, Mr Koten. Criticize us, look for us, collect information on us, everything, but please, let's be careful when we accuse any of the fact that for the government, for Fial, sorry, for Prime Minister Fial, someone jumps out of the windows or jumps under the subway. This sněmovna really doesn't deserve that. Let us be constructive, but let us avoid these statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u91	No one shall enter into the general debate. I'll check the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in from the scene. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. [[Mrs Schiller shall report from his seat before the final vote.]] I am opening up a detailed debate. There is also no sign-up for a detailed debate. I'll ask if you're interested in the final words - the translator, the rapporteur? No. So I also conclude the detailed debate and end the second reading of this proposal. If I understand this correctly - and I ask the rapporteur - there are no amendments, we could therefore proceed without a break to the third reading, and because, under Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, there are no amendments. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act may be followed in a brief hearing by the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second one which I just completed, I am now initiating the third reading of the submitted Government Bill. I expect the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Martin Exner, to follow with me at the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening with this. I'm asking, who is reporting for the third reading debate? Nobody. If no one is reporting, then I am done with the debate. I ask again if there is interest in the final words? It's not. And now I will ask Mr Martin Exner to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u92	Mr President, honourable Members, since no amendment has been tabled, we can directly vote on the wording of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u93	Thank you. I shall make a motion for a resolution. The Chamber of Deputies pronounces... [[Mrs Schiller shall speak before the final vote.]] Before the vote, you will come forward, but may I suggest - or do you want now, before the resolution? [[The President agrees with Mrs Schiller when she wants to get off.]] So please, maybe it will be better at this point, so that we can vote immediately after I read the resolution. In the meantime, I've got my colleagues to come to the ballroom because the vote is coming. Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u94	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I am here carefully, and of course my colleagues, who are more oriental in this area than I, have listened to the debate. It's so ripe that it's all reworked and brought back this proposal that came here, it came back here in some sensible state. You're just throwing the problem in front of you and taking hostages from those people who are just here and who are now in an impossible position. And of course, you're taking us hostage too, because you're pushing us in this way absolutely, absolutely unacceptable to make decisions about things that you haven't solved at all. You haven't been able to solve them in a year. I ask you to take a 10 minute break before the final vote at the ANO club, and we will still consult, and I ask the ANO member to meet us in the Acts, at the Christmas tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u95	Thank you. So I'm putting out a break in 19 o'clock 49 minutes, 10 minutes for an ANO meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u96	It's 7:49 p.m., recess for the ANO club's meeting is over. I will just remind you, or I will ask you, colleagues, to settle down, so that we can continue to address this point and the press. Let me just remind you that at this point, we're ahead of the vote. Order to the law... I'll make the proposal. The proposal reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 351, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." This is a motion for a resolution. We will take the vote. Madam Speaker yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We've just had a short ten-minute break for an ANO club meeting. I must say that the club of the ANO movement insists on its position, which it has reached in the morning after the meeting. We supported the government of lex Ukraine I, II, III, but here this proposal, where social support instruments and other things that we have been talking about all this time, we simply cannot support. We'll stay, we won't object, but we'll stay. And I'd like to call on the government to just work them out, to come here with another adjustment, you have until the end of March, it's just not possible. [[time]] You're actually the problem, I repeat, you're just rushing ahead. That means the club of the ANO movement will be delayed in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u98	Yes. I want to ask, do I have to read the resolution one more time? Do we all know what we're going to vote on? The motion for a resolution was read. So I am opening the vote (number 27) - once again, I declare this vote confusing. I've logged the application for check-out, so I'm gonna unsubscribe all of you. Next time, please, both the position and the request to unsubscribe a little before we begin to vote. Thank you, for next time. We will wait until the number of Members is settled. In the meantime, I'm gonna load up one of the apologies that came in. Mr Jáč apologizes at 19:00 for work reasons. The number of Members in the Chamber has settled, and I am therefore opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 28, 136 Members voted in favour of 81, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted and I note that we have agreed to the bill. That concludes the discussion of this point, namely printing 351. According to the agreement of the members of the MPs, this was the last item we will be discussing today. We should meet tomorrow at 9:00. But the Prime Minister still wants the floor. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would just like to remind you of the invitation you received for tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. to the State Act where the traditional Advent meeting will take place. We also support the community of Sant Egidio, who then takes care of homeless people during Christmas holidays. So we're looking forward to seeing you tomorrow at 7:30 in the State Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-002-001.u100	Yes, thank you for this information. That's it for today, and I'll see you again tomorrow, when we'll continue our negotiations at 9:00 in the morning. I wish you a lovely evening so far.
