ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u1	5. Government bill on some measures against the spread of terrorist content online /house print 285/ - second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan for the plaintiffs. The Minister apologizes, the Minister of Education will present the bill instead. Please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Mr President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u2	Colleagues, colleagues in the right and left side of the hall, if you'd like to discuss, I'd like you to go to the lobby to discuss. [[It's ringing to calm down in the hall.]] Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Jesus thanks teachers once more for their acceptance. [[President: Please, Minister, continue.]] Mr President, honourable Members, the draft law on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online has already been introduced to you at first reading. I will remind you that this type of criminal content occurs relatively little in the Czech Republic, but in some other Member States of the European Union the situation is different. Therefore, there is a risk that if an information platform for terrorist content is disposed of in one Member State, it will move to another's platform and continue to spread publicly. Therefore, last year the European Union adopted Regulation 784, in order to introduce effective and uniform procedures against terrorist content in all Member States. As a matter of fact, if the police identify any specific content as terrorist, the hosting service has an obligation to withdraw it, usually within one hour. [[11.10 hours]] Terrorist content is clearly defined at European Union level. Member States cannot extend this definition and it is only public content, not private communication. For example, these may be the perpetrator's footage of attacks on a mosque in New Zealand or the so-called jihadist executions. Such content supports terrorists and their goals. On the contrary, it cannot be normal news or scientific studies. When discussing the proposal by the Security Committee, there was a question as to whether the Government would finally acquire a tool to shut down unwanted websites by this bill. We can clearly reject this assumption. The proposal follows a regulation of the European Union that has been preparing for many years and aims to combat terrorist content. The Ministry of Interior is based on the scope of Regulation No. 784 and the draft law does not extend the regulation in any way. The main difference, however, is that according to the regulation only specific published content, i.e. a contribution or video, can always be ordered to be removed, and it cannot be ordered to block the entire website because it also contains legitimate content. Of course, no preemptive blocking can be ordered either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u3	Thank you. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 285/1. And I ask that the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Petr Letocha, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, we discussed this law at the Security Committee at our 18th meeting of 6 October and there was no amendment. We adopted the resolution as follows: "Committee on Security after the opening appearance of the First Deputy Minister of Interior for the Management of the Internal Security and Police Education Section, Mr JUDr. . Jiří Nováček, following the report by Mr Petr Letoch and after the general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree with the Government's draft law on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. I'll ask Mr Hubert Lang to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Minister, Mr rapporteur, I, as a member of the Security Committee, of course, have discussed what has been said here, yes, on the Security Committee we have discussed this press. We had some reservations about it. We've done our first reading. But I think it's important to remind some things, because many of you haven't been here, and it's kind of a press that even a little bit in the media space is wondering if there's any restrictions on freedom of speech and the like. That's why I'd kind of repeat the press one more time, and then in that bill of my own, which is the 200th, I'd touch again as the day before yesterday a couple of paragraphs that I'd like to comment on. The Minister of the Interior is not here, but of course I accept that he is probably still on some foreign business trip. What is important to say about this press is that this is indeed a transposition of European Union standards. This means, it is an act that we will be obliged to adopt again, but it does not mean that we cannot ask questions, and some things may still be subject to some analysis, or I do not know if we need to propose any amendments. It's not on our side yet. The aim of the proposed bill is to adapt - the legal order of the Czech Republic - to the requested regulation again by the European Parliament and the Council of the EU, it is Regulation 784/221 of 29 April 2021 and it is therefore about combating the spread of terrorist content online. I drew here at the beginning that these are orders to remove terrorist content online, which is issued by the Police of the Czech Republic. I would then mention the most, because even in the Security Committee, we talked about it, and that was what we were most interested in. Secondly, there is this multi-stage... multi-stage control by democratic institutions. And this is that any review of some simply deletes certain content from the hosting, and possibly foreign commands, because the Internet, of course, is a platform that is transnational, and it can be somewhere, the server, completely somewhere abroad, the review of foreign orders to remove terrorist content will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. And then there is some administrative supervision of preventive measures, the introduction of provided hosting services and it is carried out by the Czech Telecommunications Authority in our concept. He'll also be discussing misdemeanors at the same time. And, of course, in its paragrafo version, one paragraph talks about offences, and which offences can actually be committed by someone who provides such services or places them on the web. From those functions the first function - it is essential that those removal orders that oblige hosting service providers to generally, and it is quite sharp, within one hour to remove or disable specifically marked terrorist content. The regulation itself defines terrorist content by reference to that directive. The designated authority here will assess whether it is terrorist content and order its removal. The proposed proposal states that in the Czech Republic this will be the body of the Police of the Czech Republic - here it is still in general, I will then touch it when I comment on the law - or rather it is a police department whose task is to fight terrorism, because it is the task of this department to expose and combat terrorism and other related criminal activities. In that second function, it is said that the review of cross-border orders to remove that terrorist content, the regulation for rapid and effective action on terrorist content, allows the authorities of a Member State and the States of the European Economic Area to issue removal orders against hosting service providers established - in parentheses: or to appoint a legal representative - in another Member State. As I was saying, it's just a little bit, a little bit of a problem when it's not on the territory of the state, but the possibility here is that even this defective content, purely related to the terrorism or any other such defective content, should be blocked. The third function is long-term work with these hosting service providers, who will therefore be actually exposed to terrorist content and will be obliged to introduce effective specific measures to limit the occurrence of terrorist content within their hosting services. The fourth function is administrative punishment in the event of failure to comply with certain obligations laid down by the regulation or by the law which we approve here. The proposed amendment shall lay down those offences to the extent necessary. Here, from this part, I would point out that it is therefore the issuing of an order to remove the content, the assessment of a cross-border order to remove it. It shall be targeted at the administrative supervision of hosting service providers exposed to terrorist content. Therefore, sanctions are imposed for possible offences. The proposed legislation also regulates the following areas: the modalities of the review of the individual decisions of the competent authorities, the exchange of information and cooperation between the competent authorities, as well as the means of communication between the competent authorities of other Member States and, last but not least, the providers of hosting services themselves. The purpose of the regulation itself, which adapts the proposed legislation, is to contribute to the protection of public security and, at the same time, to provide adequate and effective guarantees to ensure the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. As I say, it is the European Union's transposition standard. And now I'd touch the press itself. [[11.20 hours]] I would like to say that there is a very well-designed explanatory report here for those who have had the opportunity to read it or have been more concerned with it. I understand why, because in the beginning it aroused great passions, it was called upon whether we wanted to restrict freedom of speech and so on. But what I'm really saying here is that this is purely about combating terrorist content. And even on the Security Committee, when we discussed it, as my colleague mentioned here, we asked the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and those specialized police departments directly about it, and they actually guaranteed us, and I have no reason not to trust our services that it will really be purely about the things that are connected with terrorism. So it's not that anyone here wants to prevent the spread of some of their narratives, whatever they are, but really this law, that two hundred and eighty-five, is purely affecting these harmful things connected with purely terrorism. The law itself doesn't have as much as I mentioned here. In the subject of the modification, in that section 2, when we touch on the area of security, there is talk of the police units in charge. For your information: If the Police Department of the Czech Republic, whose task is to combat terrorism - it is a specialized body that will deal with this - that there is abuse of hosting services to public dissemination of terrorist content online, it can order the removal of terrorist content or preventing access to it, and that, in turn, in some form through a specific form, there will be certain mechanisms for this. And there's actually that one hour, and it can react immediately. The issue of an order to remove terrorist content or prevent access to it is the first task of the proceedings. The removal order shall be notified only to the notifiers of the hosting service and may be delivered in the manner set out in the next paragrafo version, in particular referred to in Section 7. I will not read it here any further, just gradually get to, for example, § 5, where there is some supervision over the implementation of special measures, as I said, the supervisory and possible resolution of offences, or execution, the imposition of coercive fines, which is referred to in Section 10 again, the office that oversees it can fine up to CZK 100,000. § 7 refers to the communication of competent authorities with hosting service providers... Here it comes to the fact that, in fact, our police, especially if they communicate with abroad, when those servers may be abroad, Europol's institutions are being used to do so. The police may therefore use Europol when established to communicate with hosting service providers. If the Europol system is not used, other electronic means or contact details designated by the hosting service provider for the purpose of communication with its contact point shall be used. Further, Section 11. There is a list of offences, as I said, that may be imposed sanctions of up to CZK 100,000. And then - other offences in the event that there is no removal of terrorist content, for example, that they do not remove terrorist content or prevent access to terrorist content, do not inform the competent authorities without undue delay, do not restore content or allow access to it, if anyone complaining about it succeeds, and blah blah, there are other things. There's a total of about 13 points of possible misdemeanors. And now I'd like to get to that explanatory note that I said was really very high-quality and detailed, and I'd like to introduce you to some parts of this explanatory note, to individual terms. The law itself has about 13 paragraphs, and the explanatory report is really well prepared precisely because it is also very sensitive to the public. Explanation of certain terms stated in the law: The social importance of hosting services. The regulation is based on the assumption of the fundamental social importance of providers of information society services. The Internet differs from the physical environment, among other things, by not taking place here immediately, but is mediated by providers of various information society services. These subjects thus have an unprecedented effect on what and how is happening on the Internet. The regulation aims at specific regulation of the information society services of the type of hosting, that is, services consisting in processing - publication of data provided by users. These services became the basis of the information society at the end of the 1990s, and the quality of the normal personal and working life of a substantial part of the European population is largely dependent on their functioning today. Of course, the list goes on. I would move on to what is meant by spreading terrorist content online. The danger of spreading terrorist propaganda in a broader sense can generally be stated as follows: The Internet, in particular the social networks, is the main communication and information platform within which there is a proven and possible part of the radicalisation of society. It is accessible, flexible, inexpensive, fast, interactive, anonymous, transcends national borders, and often is not regulated enough. Last but not least, it has a great reach. It creates an arena where hate messages are made and spread. Their consumers are, on the one hand, persons who already hold extreme opinions, and also those who shape their view of the world. The beneficiaries of these content are both opinionally exclusive collectives and isolated individuals who are limited in real contact with the company. Some creators of terrorist content can target different social groups. In some cases specific messages are intended for example for children, young people, women and so on. Different communication channels and forms of communication are also chosen for different social groups. This is how you can recognize, for example, electronic illustrated magazines for children, music videos for teenagers, computer games for boys, lifestyle magazines for women. Terrorist content online is easily accessible. Terrorists often seek to maximize the reach of their communications, and the Internet helps them do so. The cross-border nature of such content poses a major challenge for any security forces around the world. The bill in general. The proposed legislation is limited to an adequate adaptation of the regulation on combating terrorist content. In particular, the proposal does not extend beyond the already in force regulations or the scope of the compulsory persons or the nature of the subject matter. A proposal which does not attract among the addressees the obligations of a provider other than hosting services which serve to present content to the public. Therefore, according to the proposal, no other than terrorist content can be prosecuted. This is an important sentence: According to the proposal, it is therefore not possible to prosecute other than terrorist content - this was actually guaranteed by the Ministry of the Interior and the police authorities who will deal with it - even in terms of the content of criminal, content otherwise illegal, or even content potentially inappropriate. The subject matter of the proposed legislation is, first and foremost, the designation of the authorities responsible for the performance of the abovementioned functions. And again, it's issuing orders to remove content, assessing cross-border removal orders, targeted administrative supervision of hosting service providers exposed to terrorist content, and then it's imposing sanctions for certain offences. From the point of view of freedom of expression, the regulation is without prejudice to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u7	Ambassador, I'm just here for the record. If you are reading the explanatory memorandum, it is available to all Members and there is no need to read it here. This means this is the space to discuss, not to read the explanatory report that is part of this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u8	I, Mr President, believe that many colleagues have not read this report precisely because it is detailed and does not require experts in this area. And I beg you to take away my right to express my opinion. So I can always read a sentence, and I can comment on it, and I don't really have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u9	I do not give you the right to express your opinion, but I lead you to order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Reading the explanatory note, which is part of the material, is not a discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u10	Okay. So I'm gonna keep going, and I'm always gonna evaluate it in some way. Freedom of speech. With regard to freedom of expression, because that is what we have also asked the Security Committee to adapt to your interpretation, this regulation is without prejudice to the obligation to respect the rights, freedoms and principles referred to in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and applies without prejudice to fundamental principles relating to freedom of expression and information, including freedom and pluralism of the media. So we need not worry here that the law that we are going to adopt may in some way restrict freedom of expression in general. [[11.30 hours]] As far as legal protection is concerned, the law again passed, here it is said that the regulation, in particular in Article 9, provides guarantees for the preservation of fundamental rights and freedoms - so, of course, we respect democracy, we respect fundamental rights and freedoms. The right to effective legal protection is thus guaranteed, which - for the ignorant - is enshrined in Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 47 of the Charter of European Union, as well as in Article 36 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So we don't have to worry about having any human rights issues again. The only thing that is a little controversial here is the freedom of business, where the petitioner in this explanatory report, and so I dare to read it because these are the sentences that if you really don't read the whole thing, so it can escape you, so here I give consideration, and here I would like you to allow me to at least quote it, that one paragraph - when in terms of freedom of business - because, of course, the provision of hosting services is a form of business, people do it for a living, it is related to some other content, advertising and the like - here it is spoken, on this page 17 of the explanatory note: The regulation and proposed legislation can also affect the freedom of business, which is guaranteed under Article 26 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. So here is the first such contradiction where there is something negative - because the obligation to respond to the removal order within one hour may mean a burden for the hosting service provider and may mean an increased cost to him. However, this impact is mitigated by the fact that the competent authorities must always carry out a thorough legal assessment before issuing the removal order before the Commission's initial proposal, which is more stringent than our legislation in this case, so that service providers will not be forced to carry out such an assessment themselves. I would like to ask my colleagues here because we are at second reading to read the freedom of business here on page 17, where there is only one such thing that could lead someone to refuse to vote for that law. I have discussed this very briefly, so I might as well return, because I am also the rapporteur for the ANO club, on the report, so that you do not say that I am reading the explanatory report here, and we do not have any significant comments on this. My recommendation to members of our club was that we are somehow in agreement with this draft government law, we do not have a problem with it, and neither do I, and I think that we will probably not even be proposing any amendments from our side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-002-005.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I see no further application for the general debate, and I am ending it, and I want to ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur - do you want the final word? It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have not yet seen any application for a detailed debate. If so, I am ending the detailed debate. Here too, I ask the final words, do you want the final words? It's not like that. There was no other proposal, no other proposal, and I therefore end the second reading of this proposal. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'll read the apologies. Today, on a whole medical day, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes. Mr Robert králíček apologizes from 11 o'clock for business reasons. From 12 to 12.30 for reasons of work, Mr Tomio Okamura apologises. Mrs Jana Pastuchová has apologized for family reasons since 11.30. From 12 to 14 hours for work reasons, Mr David Pražák apologizes. For health reasons, Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes for the whole day. And I'm opening up another point in today's program, and that's
