ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 25th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to re-enter your identification cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With a replacement card number 31, I'm voting today. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their participation in today's negotiations: Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Bžoch Jaroslav for the whole working day, Dostálová Klára for the whole day for health reasons, Dražilová Lenka for the whole day for health reasons, Feranec Milan for the whole day for health reasons, Flek Josef until 13.45 for health reasons, Kazalová David for the whole day for working reasons, Knechtová Lenka for the whole day for working reasons, Kott Josef from 10 to 13 hours for health reasons, Kubík Jan all day - working reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana until 10.15 for family reasons, Nacher Patrik from the whole day for work reasons, Okleštěk Ladislav from the whole day for work reasons, Pastuchová Jana from the whole day - also working reasons, Richter Jan from the whole day for foreign travel, Špičák Julius all day - medical reasons, Teleky Róbert the whole day for family reasons, Tureček Karel the whole day for foreign travel, Válková Helena within 10 hours for working reasons, Wenzl Milan the whole day for health reasons. And from the members of the government apologized: Fiala Petr until 13.30 for working reasons, Bartoš Ivan from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Černochová Jana until 13.30 for working reasons, Kupka Martin from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - also for work reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole meeting day for reasons of work, Rakušan Vít until 13.30 for working reasons, Síkela Jozef all day for health reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk all day for work reasons of work. Today's meeting... [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. I see that some are excused, but they are here, Mr Nacher specifically, but I will wait for everyone to calm down so that I can say how the agenda is going to go today. [[With laughter.]] Calm down, please. We should start today's meeting by discussing firmly classified points number 6, House press 55, i.e. a government proposal on limiting the impact of selected plastic products, second reading, and paragraph 7, which is the House press 56, the Government's proposal for a law on limiting the impact of selected plastic products related - second reading. Then we would continue to discuss points from the Law block - second reading and the Laws - first reading. I declare that item 103 of the approved programme, which is the House press 161, amendment to the Act on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications, can be discussed at third reading. I would remind you that at 1:30 p.m., we have strong voting points 110 to 113 and that their results will be announced on the basis of a grémia agreement subsequently. So now it is possible to sign up for the agenda and I see that this is what the KDU-ČSL club chairman Marek Výborný does. And colleagues, colleagues, I ask you once again to keep your voice down and pay attention to the President. If you have anything to do with this, please move your conversations to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-000-000.u2	Madam President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to propose this adjustment to today's programme on the basis of the agreement of the Coalition Presidents of the Clubs and other Members' Clubs. I propose that, as the first item of today's 25th session, we discuss paragraph 103, House press 161, amendment of the Act on the Protection of Designation of Origin at third reading, then we continue with the block of second reading, by discussing the following three points: item 3, House press 30, amendment of the Act on the Services of Video-Sharing Platforms, further to continue the two points that were originally included as the first and second points, that is, today as the third point - item 6, House printing 55, amendment of the Act on Plastic Products at second reading, and paragraph 7, House printing 56, amendment of the Act to the House of Printing 55, plastic products. It would then continue according to the approved agenda of the first reading block, and I remind you that we also have strong voting points at 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-000-000.u3	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the meeting? As I see no one, we will vote on the proposal from the Member, President of the KDU-ČSL Excellent Club. There is a need to vote on solid inclusion as the first point in point 103, which is the House press 161, the third reading, and then the second reading, item 3, 6 and 7. It is possible to vote if no one objects, here this change of programme as a whole. I do not see anyone objecting, so I assume that no one has a problem with us voting on the proposal as a whole. I'll call in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby. And I will repeat that we are voting on the solid inclusion of paragraph 103 as the first point of this day, then item 3, House press 30, and would follow the already firmly classified points, as approved in the programme. We all know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 51 registered 157 present, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we will begin today's negotiations by discussing paragraph 103, namely the House Press 161. And I'm opening this point right now.
