ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u1	106. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 206/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Economic Committee, Mr Jiří Hájek, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 206/3, which was delivered on 20 July 2002. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 206/4. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Transport has tabled a bill amending Act No. 114/1995, on inland navigation, as amended, and other related laws. Its main objective is to transpose three EU directives in the field of professional qualifications in inland navigation into national law, in which the legislation also takes into account two relevant directly applicable documents, EU rules. Several amendments were applied in the context of the examination of the draft law in the guarantee economic committee and subsequently at second reading. Firstly, it is an amendment aimed at eliminating, under precisely defined conditions, the responsibility of the leaders of selected small vessels for their leadership under the influence of alcohol. The Ministry of Transport agrees with this amendment because it is a compromise solution that only affects clearly defined activities carried out on selected rules, contains the territorial criterion of the proposed measure and sets out a tolerable alcoholic strength for skippers, which must be less than 0,5 per mile. Furthermore, the three amendments tabled at second reading concern, firstly, the narrowing of the heading of navigational accidents subject to notification and subsequent technical investigation and the determination of their causes by the State Administration - in this case, this will be a significant flexibility and simplification, and, of course, a minor burden on small boat leaders, secondly, the anchoring of the last possibility of exchanging invalid certificates of competence for the management of a small or recreational vessel - is a measure that will make life easier for those who have not yet noticed the need to renew the licence of the very leader of a small vessel. Thirdly, this will be a shift in the effectiveness of the proposed law. The Ministry of Transport agrees with all these amendments. Finally, I would like to mention that the bill contains legislation under which, in the event of reasonable doubt, the Cruising Authority may order a proficiency check or a medical examination for persons managing or operating vessels or carrying out other professional activities in inland navigation. In line with the promise of our fellow Members with whom we have discussed this legislation in more detail, I would like to say that these qualified suspicions on the side of the Swimming Authority must always be sufficiently substantiated and will be fulfilled in particular following the results of the examination of the causes of accidents in the waterway traffic or following notification by the Police of the Czech Republic. The practice of recent years clearly confirms that there is no overuse of this procedure. I would like to request the approval of the proposed bill, as amended by all the amendments applied. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u3	Yes, thank you. I am now opening a general debate to which Members have joined, first of all, Mr Martin Exner. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u4	Mr President, Dear Government, honourable Members. I would like to comment on the amendment to be made on drinking water. I went to Vltava in August and I don't know if any of you went there - there are various floating bars, floating stalls in the middle of the river, there are a lot of different stalls on the banks, pubs, alcohol ads, and I understand only there, although I am an old waterman, that actually why people drink there very unspoiled, it is because on the Vltava river they rent rafts and on the raft it is very boring to go, because the raft is made for some wild water somewhere in Norway or in Nepal, in Vltava it is boring, so the young girls and young girls drink there relatively undisturbed. I also witnessed them driving the raft into the lake, some girl I saw putting shots out of those plastic little cups, selling them individually, she fell into the water, then we pulled her out. I also understood that this is a good business for tenants of the rafts and, of course, for restaurants and operators of floating bars. It's a very nasty pattern for children who also go there with different compartments on the water. Of course, these people pose a danger to themselves and others, because the rivers in the season are quite full, so these people do not control the vessels, and it is a bit problematic in my opinion. [[10.50 hours]] I believe that even now, whether we write 0.5 per mile, or we can write 3 per mile, it doesn't matter, because I've been on the water several times this year, and I've never seen the State Fair Administration or the police somehow control it. So I guess it wouldn't be good to put it there and change it somehow. If we put it there, I'd like to hear how it's gonna be controlled, because the fine is big. But I don't really think it's ever been in practice. So for me, if we write this law and we don't enforce it, we're just gonna swoop in our legal order again, and it doesn't make sense without clear sanctions and enforcement systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u5	Thank you. Your speech raised Mr Adamec's factual comment. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u6	Mr President, fellow Members, this always raises, of course, major debates about allowing a minimum limit on alcohol. I have to say one thing. Today, tolerance is zero, yet these things happen. I always say you have to look at it a little differently. In fact, we allow ourselves to have one or two beers for those who are decent and do not have to worry about being affected. On the other hand, we have to tell people that if they drink, no matter how much, if something happens, the legal responsibility always goes to them. It's not that if they were sober, then of course the court will decide completely differently. You have to say, I understand the attitude, the society is set like this, and that's just not how it's translated, that's actually, yes, we're going to have one, two beers. But on the other hand, we tell them when something happens, it's behind you. Responsibility is passed on to these people. It's leisure activity, people are adults, and if we don't raise them like this, the situation will never change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u7	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u8	I'm here to support Ivan Adamec's words. We don't take any responsibility from anybody with a tolerance of 0.5 per mile. On the contrary, when the law is more true to reality, more consistent with normal life, it can have greater respect. What has been said here: All those who go on water record, on the contrary, the good ones point out that this is not a target condition, it is not desirable for bells to be made on the water. That's not the point either. On the contrary, the point is to make it clear in this regard that the decent ones here can have natural and reasonable tolerance, and we will insist logically that the law should also enjoy proper authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u9	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I think the pressure on everyone's responsibility for themselves and their actions is indisputable. But I'd like to warn people about this passion. We have nothing to forbid them. The progressive pursuit of socialism, when the state controls everything, is inadmissible. But it is good to remind them that everyone is responsible for what he does, responsible for his actions and responsible for himself. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for his words and other colleagues who support this proposal. I just wanted to remind you that we should give credit to the original proposal, which concerns some degree of tolerance for water drinkers, which is from our former colleague Lukáš Bartoň of Pilsen. I am glad that it will be successfully completed now and that we will treat people as people, realistically, that we will not create unrealistic models, that everyone on the water will be abstinence. Of course, setting the rules in road traffic... After all, there can be various incidents on the water, and we do not want people dying on the water, and we do not want people driving under the influence of alcohol that they will not be able to respond to the situations that occur on the water. But we need to set it up realisticly, as has already been said here. That is why I think that this proposal is going in the right direction, and I am glad that it has now succeeded in getting support for it in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u13	Thank you. So far, the final point of fact, Mr Nacher. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u14	Good day, Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to provoke the debate about this amendment, which will now represent, I suppose, my colleague Munzar. I support it, too. Once again, it's not about the relationship to alcohol. I myself am abstinence - you all probably know - yet here I support it. I even encouraged tolerance for cyclists. We should just design things here that are realistic that are enforceable. It just seems crazy to me. Wherever I'm going, I'll have lemonade. Everyone around me is gonna have half a beer, and then to be chased, whether they're riding a bike or paddling on a river, it just seems completely out of reality to me. As a result, people will lose faith in the laws and will not observe what is really essential. I'd like to ask you and challenge those who don't have that opinion across the clubs - that's also in our club, right and left - so you can say your reasons on the microphone. Let's talk about it. Now is the perfect opportunity before the vote, then it will be too late. So I would like to call on you to do this, and I would like to be involved in the debate on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u15	Another factual point, Mr Zlínský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I am also a waterman, I love this kind of sport immensely. But what's happening on the rivers lately is, I would say, incredible. I'm surprised we don't drown a lot more people, because some watermen hang over boats completely drunk, they don't drive those boats at all, they go through the jeezes, I don't even know what a lucky coincidence. So it's really not a happy situation. The worst part is, they're actually threatening to release the others in the raids, the decent ones, they're shoving the drunks into them all the time. So I think we should pay due attention to this in dealing with this problem, the useless use of alcohol on water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u17	Thank you. Another - Mr Kolovratník's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u18	Good morning. I apologize to you and to the Minister. I've been briefing him. As the alcohol is in the debate, it will be for a long time under the law, which is otherwise very simple and uncontroversial. I am in a moment's time to comment on this amendment as a co-author, logically, with Vojtěch Munzar. Now I want to respond to the previous speaker, Mr. SPD colleague. Please, my colleague, listen to your own words, through the President, and this is not meant to be a bad thing. We have to deal with this. We have to deal with this. Do we really think that by tightening the sanctions, that we're gonna be tougher, tougher, tougher, that we're gonna somehow raise these people, that they're gonna be scared, they're gonna say, we're gonna keep it? Another sentence applies: The laws are to be such that they are enforceable, so that they can be observed at all. I mean, those people aren't gonna do that anyway. So, yes, let's deal with it, let's solve it, but there are methods like prevention, education, some good example and so on. But let's really not kid ourselves that if we tighten up the standard - any, even in any other field - that we achieve something fundamental. It just doesn't work that way in real life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u19	Thank you, too. We have two more factual points, first colleague Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment by Mr Munzar is so successful that we are discussing it here before he presents it. But I'm going to react so it doesn't stay in the air, here's to a colleague from the SPD. Okay, so we heard the first argument, why not, but you described a completely different situation. We're talking about tolerance 0.5 per mile, and you're talking about some drunk people who definitely have more of your description. I don't have the experience, but that's two very different situations. One small beer doesn't mean someone's leaning somewhere or whatever you said or throwing up off a boat. So I would please - let's talk about the real arguments. This wasn't real for me, so try it on the second try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u21	Mr Zlínský, Mr. Zlínský, will make another comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I didn't want to question this law. I just wanted to point out what's going on in those rivers. And I didn't even suggest any restrictions, I was just saying that we should deal with this, and I meant that we should discuss it here because it's there, and I have nothing against taking precautions. I didn't say not to take precautions, but my point is not to keep quiet about it. So don't push me around here saying that I want to do some people's restrictions or something. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u23	I also thank you and another one with a point of fact is signed by Mr Svoboda. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u24	Thank you. I'm sure drinking questions are a lot in my hands, because I'm a doctor and I know something about alcohol. But here at the moment, we are discussing a completely different matter, we are discussing two different groups. One group that gets seriously drunk and violates everything they can and can be misfortuned or misfortuned with someone else. That's one group I'm not talking about right now. I'm talking about a group that had lunch or had dinner and had a beer after dinner. The state of drunkenness is virtually zero in terms of medicine. There are very few people, but one or two percent who have such intolerance to alcohol that this dose is drunk. But they usually don't drink at all because they get really sick. So I don't mix those two groups of people -- one who violates everything that can be broken, and others who act normal, and I also perceive that someone drinks beer after dinner or after lunch. It has a very good effect on digestion, and I even believe that even then they can paddle better because their physics will adjust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u25	So we have exhausted the factual points, we are going back to the general debate and Mr Munzar has received his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u26	Thank you, Mr President. In my speech, I wanted to present the proposal of our group of Members across the political spectrum, to present this proposal that we have tabled through the Economic Committee. I am already entering into a very lively discussion, but perhaps it is time to explain exactly what this amendment means or does not mean, what leads us to its submission, and may also refute some concerns that may arise from the incorrect and incorrect interpretation of this proposal. To remind you, during the last parliamentary term, the tolerance of alcohol for watermen in this House has been discussed for a very long time and, after long discussions, the compromise proposal for tolerance of 0.5 per mile, which was then formulated by the Ministry of Transport, came out of the original proposal by Mr Bartoň. He even passed this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, but The Senate returned this proposal with an extension of the cyclists and no longer found the necessary majority for the enlargement, nor 101 for the Senate's vote. I just wanted to remind you of the beginning. Now for your own design. The content of the proposal is such that in recreational activities of watering on streams where there is no intensive freight and passenger shipping, there will no longer be any further threat of fines for the consumption of small quantities of alcohol up to 0.5 per mile, such as one beer or one glass of wine. That's all. The proposal is not a general excuse for drunks, nor is it a challenge or motivation for the unbridled and dangerous consumption of alcohol and for dangerous behaviour. It's from my point of view, and from our point of view, to protect the decent ones who are not exaggerating with drinking, but, for example, as my colleague Svoboda said, they will have one beer for lunch, so that they will not be fined for it. However, the proposal does not take personal responsibility for their actions and actions. On the contrary, they must be fully aware of their responsibilities under other legislation, the Civil Code, liability for potential damage, their responsibilities under the Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of narcotic drugs, and in particular the Criminal Code, where they threaten anyone who endangers the health and lives of people under the influence of addictive substances, imprisonment for up to one year, cash punishment or prohibition of action. This is a proposal that is more consistent with reality and real life. It allows itself to have a small amount of alcohol during recreational activity, but it does not reduce fines in any way and does not increase tolerance for consumption of more alcohol. I overheard the fear that it would free up the floodgates for drinking alcohol, when someone said they'd have one beer, they wouldn't stay with one. If someone is already doing this today, and we have zero tolerance in the law, and they drink on the water as unfinished, this proposal will not really change it, but it will not make it worse. On the contrary, if anyone wants a beer today, he's already aware that he's committing a misdemeanor, and then he can say, "I don't care, I've already had one, so I'll have the other, the third." A reasonable line, which can be the 0.5 perm, can act like the other way around. I would like to point out that 0.5 per mile is not really the release of the floodgates for uncontrolled alcohol consumption. Look west of us to the advanced states, there have a similar boundary when driving motor vehicles. I don't want to burden this debate today with this. At least as important a question as the substantive content of the bill to me is how we and how people approach the rule of law. If we insist on laws that deny reality and people do not respect them because they do not consider them reasonable, this reduces respect for the rule of law as a whole. In the legal order, formalism should not win. I will borrow the words of my colleague Nacher, who said a sentence on the Economic Committee, which I think exactly said: we are pretending that we have zero tolerance for watermen and people are pretending to follow it. We're living in a kind of hypocritical situation. But we don't want to have formal and hypocritical laws that only follow themselves on the spot. On the contrary, I believe that if we cancel a fine for one beer or one glass of wine, people will be more willing to stay with that quantity. I understand that everyone has a personal point of view. Some may be more aware of the more protective and paternalist role of the state and will vote against it. I understand that if someone believes that the state can replace people's own responsibility with laws, regulations, bans and orders, and if someone believes that the state has strict laws to educate people and to approach them with such a little measure of distrust, then they will not vote in favour. But I firmly hope that most people and most of us here in the Chamber of Deputies believe that the state should approach people with confidence that they will abide by reasonable laws that they leave and leave room for their own responsibility. That's why, at the end of the day, what the proposal is about and what it's not about. It's not about allowing a limitless and dangerous consumption of alcohol during waterfront recreation. It is not even about taking responsibility from an individual if, under the influence of a small amount of alcohol, he causes some damage. The proposal is whether our legislature considers the consumption of a very small amount of alcohol to be less than 0.5 per mile, for example one beer, such a socially dangerous and unacceptable misdemeanor, that a fine should continue to threaten it. And that's it. Therefore, allow me to humbly ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u27	Your speech raised Mr Kubíček's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to confirm Mr Munzar's words, through Mr President. In any case, I am very pleased, and it is the first time that there is also responsibility for committing acts that are affected by this small amount of alcohol. There was a debate once about cyclists and so on, and there was talk about what limits of tolerance are in neighbouring countries. Once again, from a legal point of view, these people have full responsibility for the actions they do. And then we're talking about a few aspects that no one's ever mentioned before, but how does it work when the water man who drives a boat and doesn't have any alcohol puts a man on board who's drunk or who's getting drunk - we wouldn't get anywhere at all. Let's raise people to independence and responsibility děkovat you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u29	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate in which Mr Hájek Jiří is registered. Mr Kolovratník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u30	Good morning. Mr President, fellow Members, fellow ministers. I would now speak as a Member, although I am the rapporteur on this point. My opinion is quite similar to what has already been said. I don't want to repeat, but the law really is... or it's a designated place. Let's talk about the fact that these are relatively safe places, we don't allow the entire water network. Parallel - it's like the districts, when I take the roads, it's not like Baťův's channel and so on, where, on the contrary, there could be an increased danger under the influence. It came down here that we should raise citizens. I think maybe I'll just stand there a little bit... Therefore, the citizen should be the one who is responsible for himself, i.e. if I can respond to the remark, through Mr President, Mr Nacher, however, I do miss some national prevention. We haven't been appealing to citizens about alcohol lately. We rely on our national nature, and that's chewing - but it will turn out somehow, for we will cope, or someone will help me with it, and we will take the laws in the second row. I think that's a mistake. I have worked abroad for some time, for example in Germany, where law enforcement is very high. Let me give an example of the road - even if it has nothing to do with water - but the tolerance in Germany is 0.5 per mile. Of course, you can have two beers for lunch and drive to the office and it's probably okay, but only until something happens. And it doesn't matter if you didn't... Well, I should have said, it's okay if you don't cause it, because at that point, your insurance is falling, at that point, you're paying all the costs, and if you're causing some big accident and a helicopter has to fly in, you're paying the chopper. And I don't think the citizens are aware of that at all. So we need to get the education and enforcement of laws and law enforcement a little harder, but, and that has been said here, we need to transfer responsibility to the citizen and give him freedom and a chance to choose. I don't think we're gonna cancel alcohol production, even if it seems like a simple solution. I'm leaning towards my colleague Munzar here with what he said, and that's that the law doesn't make us any better, but it doesn't make us any worse, either, that's what you need to remember in your decision-making today. I would also like to ask for your support, because I think that we can also get closer to the West by our action on citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u31	Yes, thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Nacher has been registered for the third time. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u32	Yes, thank you, and it will certainly not be the last time, Mr Vice-President, if you do statistics. I wanted to say one important thing and underline it in relation to tolerance of alcohol. In fact, both Munzar and Docent Svoboda have spoken about this, and that is that you often argue here that there will be a break in law. As it is today that people have beer and some really hang from the ship, some are not able to tread on the bike today when there is zero tolerance. That means whoever doesn't want to follow it, who breaks the rules, breaks them at zero tolerance, where it's clearly catchable because there's a zero. He doesn't speculate if one, two beers and so on because he's zero, the zero is determined. Even if he smells it, if I say so, he'll be caught. And yet it's worth it to some of these people, so it's not gonna be any change for them. And I'd point that out here. It will be a change for those who are worried and who would really like just one beer or one wine. And I'm pointing out again, I'm talking about it here, it looks like I'm drinking the first league here, and I'm really one of the few abstinences here. So this is the important thing that it will release for those people who are responsible, who are afraid today, do not break the rules, and for them the 0.5 limit is a certain clue. And this is what I think needs to be underlined. Otherwise, the sentence said by my colleague Munzar, what I said on the committee: We're going to play that there are laws and people will play that they follow them. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u33	The cup of time is exhausted. Your speech raised another point of fact, that is, Minister Válek. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u34	Thank you. Mr President, when there is such a consensus, I will join it. I just want to underline one thing. What more we give - and it is a good thing that we do - freedom of decision-making to citizens and we trust them to make the right decision and to bear the consequences if they are bad, and all the more we should demand and insist hard on compliance with the laws and the rules that are fundamental. I would like to remind you of the zero tolerance of alcohol for under 18 years, and there are large reserves in its enforcement, in its compliance. We need to realise that alcohol is extremely harmful to those who are in development, for all who are under 18 years of age, and there we really should focus and focus our attention. That's what I think is a rational approach to fighting addiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u35	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Exner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u36	I just wanted to add so I wouldn't be misunderstood: if there's going to be zero or 0.5, there really isn't a big question. But like I said here, even with that zero, even with that 0.5, no one has ever claimed it before. It's not true, I go on water often - I've never seen anyone come and breathe. So what I'm asking is, how are we going to enforce this, the State Maritime Administration, I think it's under the Ministry of Transport, so how is it going to be arranged, or is it going to be enforced by the police? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u37	Yes, thank you, that was the last point in fact, we are returning to the general debate. The next enrollment is Mr. Kolovratník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u38	Thank you for the floor. Good morning again. It's déjà vu, colleagues, you who have been here for the second or third term - smoking, alcohol, alcohol on the bike paths, breaking down the zeros on the roads, it's always the same over and over again, and with all due respect - now I don't want to downplay it - but I'm not quite sure if all the previous debates. And maybe just like this one, sometimes one of us here in the hall has changed our minds. I guess that's the subject where most people are almost 100 percent determined, but maybe I'm wrong, Patrik Nacher tells me he's seen something like this, so maybe that one, two key voices might decide. Well, here's the thing. I'm going to try not to repeat what my previous speakers said, and I'm quite interested in one of the responses here on Twitter to one of my fans or really from people who very often agree with almost everything I'm presenting, and today, I'm not going to name him, I'm going to keep him anonymous, writes: Martin, I'm sorry, I don't agree with this strictly. You know that watering is never just about two beers, then you can just approve one beer after lunch and all car drivers, writes the gentleman. And I would like to explain this for myself, perhaps even as a fellow petitioner, if I may, colleague Munzar. We've always been absolutely opposed to breaking zero tolerance on roads, in road traffic, and I think there's always been a majority consensus here. Even though we discussed this in a non-political way, but it was expertly on the Economic Committee and we had, or there were traffic police with the statistics, really, ladies will forgive, with the crazy statistics of accidents caused by alcohol, and not just by our own injuries, not just by cyclists, but by the injury where you cause misfortune to someone else, when you simply threaten someone else in the worst possible way, that is a clear reason to simply have road tolerance at zero and not let it go. Just for the record, in the debates, there was also sometimes an argument that elsewhere in Europe there is a small tolerance of 0.2 to 0.5 per mile, and why it is the strict one. The answer of police officers and road safety experts is always: Foreign police officers envy us that we have zero in road traffic in the Czech Republic. And even for me, this is a completely different world, and I always wonder, and maybe I'm wrong: it's completely different on the water, there's no danger that I'm gonna knock him down, that I'm gonna miss him at the crossing or at the pedestrian crossing, that I'm gonna pull him over. In most cases, if there is a threat, I am primarily threatening myself or my crew. And somehow, my philosophy and my view here on the amendment is that I really - and now I'm repeating what has been said here - it's just not our job - sorry - to piss people off, to raise them, to keep watching them and to check whether they're doing right or wrong here or elsewhere. And I liked one of the arguments, I don't know who said that a little while ago, about the enforcement. It's really just not real, somewhere to control and measure every waterboat, or it's about the boat leaders, whether he just had the beer or not. And back from emotions, it's good to be on facts, on content. Mr Munzar explained this very nicely and very well, I will be happy to repeat it very briefly. It really is not as you know on the water, for example, here in Prague, it is probably the most typical, where the huge cruise ships are, where traffic is really extreme, so it is from my point of view the key phrase that was incorporated into the compromise solution by experts from the Ministry of Transport, that it concerns vessels that are not on the tracked waterway, typically it is such Sázava - I am from Eastern Bohemia - river Orlice and so on, simply where there is no water, river or ship traffic, and therefore there is no such big conflict. And I'll add B to that, so it applies to skippers without machinery. So again, when we witnessed sometimes unfortunate news from the media, where there was a collision of some scooter with a ship and so on, they're all machine drives, so here we're talking about canoe or rafts, as they've already been mentioned here. I guess that's all there is to stall, and if I can convince someone, I'll be happy to intercede for this compromise proposal. I will remind you that there is a compromise in moments of untraceable waterway, without machinery drive, that it was supported by the Ministry of Transport during the last term. In the end, last year, the law failed to negotiate, and here I want to say that I am glad that the existing Ministry of Transport under the leadership of Martin Kupka is actually consistent in this regard, following up on that position, and even in this case, that it supported the proposal. And perhaps the last little argument that came to my mind - it is a committee proposal, so please consider that it has been discussed on the Economic Committee, it has become the so-called "A." To be fair, it is true that then, when we voted on our positions, this was without an opinion - you probably know it from your other committees, for example, the President was absent at that time. [[Voice: Covid.]] He had covid, poor guy, so it was about that one, two votes, let's say it was equal. So it is not equipped with an opinion in this vote, but it is simply a committee proposal, and I think that also gives it some weight. Thank you so much for considering the support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u39	We will continue the general debate. I will ask Mrs Ožanová, Mr Lochman will follow. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u40	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not exactly one of those who will cheer at the fact that he can drink somewhere and allow himself to follow anything under the influence of alcohol. I would just like to comment on some of the arguments that were raised here, and they seemed very surprising to me. Laws that deny reality are not meant to win formalism, people will obey reasonable laws. Well, let's take it to another mode of transport, for example, on road transport - I don't like the fact that there's a stop sign, so I'm not gonna follow it. [[Notes from the diaper.]] Excuse me, I'm taking the liberty of talking, so I'm gonna ask you not to interrupt, I don't have a pre-prepared speech, I'm talking out of my head. Next thing you know, speed is normally broken. Well, let's cancel the speed limits. It seems exactly the same argument to me - if you don't, it does to me. Please tell me they don't follow applicable laws, well, that's wrong, and that's why we're gonna change them? Please, let us return to the factual argument, not to the fact that if we break the law, we'd better change them so that people don't break it. I do not think that the arguments are entirely relevant. For me, as a person who deals mostly with the traffic and driving of motor vehicles, I confess that for me the problem is any driving under any amount of alcohol or under the influence of an intoxicating substance. For me, it's water, it's always threatening to hurt someone. Doing the right thing, as has been said in the Economic Committee, who controls the small vessel, that's fine, and does it do the right thing to the person he bumps into? No, he won't. Please, it's not to make someone feel good, it's to be safe. And I think from a safety point of view, it's appropriate to keep our zero - on the water, on the road, but also in the air, because in a few moments, the pilots of the recreational planes will say: And why can't we have 0.5 pardons, we also fly where nobody doesn't fly, so why can't I drink? Please, let's be reasonable, we have one big advantage, we have zeros here. Let's try to stay with them, it's really for safety, not for people to be okay, i.e. drivers, pilots, etc. Please, the arguments that really came out here were strange. [[11.30 hours]] I myself, when I was dealing with traffic accidents, and sometimes I saw autopsy protocols, you know, I think even a small amount of alcohol affects. Maybe I'll give you a completely non-standard example. Here, too, I can tell which of my colleagues had a beer after lunch when he was getting off, and believe me, even a small amount of alcohol affects some of the performances here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u41	I hope it's morning that we're all still sober here. [[Laughs in the hall.]] To respond, however, your performance raised two factual points. Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u42	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am here to say that I respect the position of Mrs Ožanová. She's always got the same, consistent, and that's right. I don't agree with her, that's all I can do about it right now, but I can say my thing about it. You know, she's not gonna guarantee that people are gonna follow the law. It also shows that when you look at statistics on traffic accidents within European Union countries or within European states, including Russia, you will find that where there is zero, the situation is significantly worse than where the zero is not. That's right. When we're talking about what happens when these people use them, and there are accidents on the roads, but at this point, we have zero! [[In an elevated voice.]] It means something's wrong, and you know, we're having fun here, we don't have enough cops, there's no way to put a cop on every corner to let us breathe if we're okay. But this is about the responsibility of the people, and I'm saying again, these bills are for the decent ones, because they're rude about what violates everything here, including the stopwatch that we've been talking about, so, yeah, they're part of the problem of repression - but they don't care if they have zero or 0.5! [[In an elevated voice.]] They really don't care! And we're saying, we're gonna let you have one, two beers in that 0.5, be careful, because you know very well, if something happens, you're gonna cause something, you're gonna take it ugly, you're gonna pay for everything, and you're gonna be glad they don't lock you up! And that's, that's the responsibility of those traffic participants, on the water, on the road, anywhere. And I am a supporter of this method rather than absolute bans, which most then do not respect, and those who are decent, of course, have a big problem from it sometimes in the morning and so on. You know it yourself from your practice, I'm not gonna point anybody out here. Please, it's a completely different philosophy that goes against what Mrs Ožanová here says. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u43	Thank you. Another point of fact, Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u44	The purpose of regulations and bans is to prevent dangerous situations or socially undesirable phenomena, that is the basic sense and it is generally that when regulations or bans are just too many, laws cease to function, they cease to have the proper authority, and we follow the intention to go as easily as possible. Where such risks simply are not, and this, in the case of vessels without their own propulsion, is undoubtedly fulfilling, it makes sense to determine tolerance, which then really does not mean any increased risk, but more natural behaviour and emphasis on the fact that if someone breaks such a tolerance limit, then, of course, it is more serious, because we have determined tolerance in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u45	We will continue with the factual remarks. Next is Mr Nacher's enrollment. Your next two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would ask you to do statistics on other speakers, their factual remarks. To deserve your attention, that's an honor for me, but it would be good for you to do the statistics with others. I think the facts are in order now. First of all, I would like to say that I respect my colleague Ožanová, my colleague from the club, because, as was said here, she has the same opinion, she doesn't change it, we disagree with each other in this, and it's interesting that we have a different view of the alcohol, even in relation to who then - and I was this interested - who drinks and who doesn't drink. This is really interesting, because it's actually similar, here I see, even though there was a debate on the anti-smoking law, tightening up, that especially smokers, who then smoke, are those who are very strict in relation to what has been adopted, in restaurants that have invested a lot of money in separate spaces. But in this, I would like to respond to the honourable colleague Zuzana Ožanová, through the Vice-President. Well, the speeding example, it's really limping. We're talking about some natural state of the matter, some reality, that when someone does something, they commit something, it's an aggravating circumstance for him, that's taking responsibility. That's taking responsibility. If I were to put in that analogy, what my colleague said, it would mean, like, if we put the rules, that there'd be 50 on the freeway, and now we'd be pretending like it's okay, and basically we'd be closing our eyes to the fact that, of course, nobody's gonna follow the highway, everybody's gonna be riding 120. Well, if anything, this feels right to me when we're talking about speed. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u47	The next will be Mrs Peštová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u48	Thanks for the word. I don't want to argue now whether half a pardon yes or half a pardon no, but I'd rather ask if someone would be able to answer me as to how to proceed if a person would have a 0.5 promile, that means they wouldn't break the law, and yet something would happen. That means what kind of sanctions are there? If it's exactly the same, will it be seen as that man breaking the law, breaking the law? Is there a case-law here? That's one thing I'm interested in, because of course everyone has a different effect on everyone, that, yes, you don't recognize 0.5 for someone, they act completely normal, whereas there are people who are really, like, 0.5 for a pardon, and they're already in a completely different mood. So this is just what I'm wondering is what happens if they don't break the law or the limit, and yet something happens, and maybe the next thing is that something happens and it won't be his fault, that's another thing. He becomes a participant without doing anything, but still meets the limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u49	Yes. With a factual remark, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u50	Well, that's general, we have an answer for that, and we know it. Of course, when there is no breach of the law, it does not take away the responsibility of the person concerned if he causes a problem, for example, if he causes an accident. It depends, of course, on the extent to which - and this may be the matter of judging the court, or certainly, and it will decide whether his conduct at that moment could have really affected him in some way by alcohol at that moment. But, of course, if he's a participant and doesn't cause a particular problem, he's not gonna cause an accident, why would he be viewed as a culprit at the time or judged more strictly? That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u51	Mr Munzar will make another point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u52	Let me just add a little bit to what I said here in the general debate in my speech. I have listed here the current applicable regulations, where it is described in the Civil Code liability for damages, in the Criminal Code criminal liability in the event of bodily harm. I didn't say one thing, and maybe that's the answer. In this law, the authority for the State Maritime Administration is to banish anyone who drives under the influence of a proven or unambiguously under the influence of alcohol and acts in some dangerous way, and that limit does not affect this, this paragraph, it really ties only to an offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u53	And we are going back to the general debate. Mr Lochman will appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u54	Good morning, colleagues. I will try to cut my contribution very short so that I don't repeat what other colleagues have already said. In any case, I would just like to say that the debate that is here, those who are opposed or strongly opposed, criticise the current situation. So if we're criticizing the current situation and we don't want to go there, then we'd have to say, "The loser is now massively violated by watermen," that's the reality, I hope, we all agree, we just don't keep it, so if you want to enforce it, either there's gotta be patrols all the time, or cancel the rafts, or cancel the single places where you can drink, and then we won't have any watermen drinking. I don't want to hit anybody, I'm just trying to say, if we want zero and we want it to really be enforced, let's not put the stimuli there, whether they're not there, there would have to be bank regulation and so on, or let's find some peace. As co-president of the law, of course, I want to express my support for this law. I think - and I'm actually glad - that we're talking about values here today, about our attitudes. That is what the House should be about, arguing about who has the view, and trying to find a realistic law, his novel. I would like to say that it is very important for me that the law should be enforceable, and that is not at the moment, it is a mass breach. When a law is broken and it becomes the norm, it leads to disrespect for other laws. That's my point. That's why I'm a co-president for putting in place a limit of 0.5. I think that the 0.5 limit, which, by the way, is also used in other countries, so I think that this small amount of alcohol is what will be exactly for the decent ones in our culture, that is, who will have a small beer and then be measured by some kind of control, knows that it has some kind of limit. I beg you, even the members of the police force, when they go to the shores today to enforce it, some, and measure between 0.2 and 0.3, and they should fine the person concerned, so they will always listen to things, because those who go to the water sports, of course they don't drink, those who go there for fun on the raft often drink. So I wanted to say that for me it is above all that I think the right to be respected, and now it is not, so if we are satisfied with the situation, let us break the law, or let us look for solutions so that the law does not break. That is why I am in favour of this amendment being approved, and I would like to ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u55	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Ožanová reported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u56	Thank you. Mr President, I apologise, by your means, to colleague Munzar. I promised him I'd be modest today, so it's my first de facto. Please, I would be happy to see the President of the Transport Committee apply these arguments to the amendment of Act No. 361/2000, that's road traffic, when we get back to the distance from cyclists - something that doesn't follow, we'll cancel. I'm sure I'll suggest we cancel the mandatory 1.5 meters distance from the cars, because that's exactly the same problem. I remember the debate in the last parliamentary term. It doesn't follow - let's cancel it! I will suggest it, I wonder how all those who will now vote for 0.5 so that the watermen on some roads can enjoy alcohol, how they will vote here at this point. I said last parliamentary term that it is legislatively referred to in Section 4 (a) of the Road Safety Act, namely that every road user should behave with consideration and discipline so that his actions do not endanger his or her own or others' property. This means that there was legislation, yet we felt some obligation to approve a regulation that is stupid to forgive, because it cannot be observed on some roads. When I'm on local communications, not a pillow, I can't keep up with an anti-driving cyclist. Why do I say that? Because the arguments are the same, once it's an argument for, the second against. Please, if you have this opinion, I look forward to discussing the amendment to the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u57	Thank you, and another with a point of fact is Mrs. Jana Pastuchová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm listening to this, and I feel obliged to get off because I don't have a paramedic here, it's just me today. I have also told my colleague that I cannot support this amendment. We talked about this in the last parliamentary term. We've got a lot of work to do on the ambulance, and I'm really worried about how my colleagues here said something wasn't working, so we're gonna change it. Well, it doesn't work on wheels, we've got drunk cyclists, and all I can really see here is that you're collecting election points because this isn't normal. You let the watermen do it today, you come in with the bikers tomorrow, you come in the day after tomorrow, we can drink on the slopes - and where does it go? I'm really against this for the paramedics, and I wonder - I don't know if I understood it well, if Minister Válek, through you, as a doctor and Minister of Health, is going to raise his hand for this, so I have no more words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have represented Vice-President Jan Skopeček, who also wants to speak. Let me ask you, with priority rights? [[- Yes.]] Okay, so the Vice-President is acting with priority rights. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u60	Thank you very much. I can't do it, thank you for representing me. I would like to thank you for the draft law for both factual reasons and in my view it is a classic law, a classic vote, where we split into two groups, people who believe in freedom and responsibility of people, and a group of Members who believe more about the paternalist state that must raise us citizens must forbid us things and protect us from ourselves. I'm just one of those people who thinks we have freedom and responsibility at the same time, and of course that responsibility is indelible. Speaking of paramedics, in my opinion, we can increase our responsibility. I don't understand why we pay medical insurance for paramedics and health care for people who, for example, crash drunk, get an ambulance, pay for health care. Feel free to talk about how these people, who cause something because of alcohol, cause the cost of the state, so that we, for their health care, are responsible for those who do not drive the wheel, do not contribute when we need money in medical care to something completely different. But it's really this basic conflict about freedom or paternalism. I also really think that we should not have laws that are not respected today and daily. The reality of life is something - if the law doesn't correspond to reality in the long run, then we have to do something about it. And it's not about that - when we compare it to the marks - that we just have to cancel the mark. So let's just enforce the law more when we think the consequences of his violations are so socially dangerous. I don't think 0.5 alcohol is so socially dangerous that we have to tighten the law and spend the cost of babysitting people on the river. Maybe - and I'll compare it to those brands - if there were fewer brands on the streets, in cities than today, people might follow more stopwatch, more entry bans, more speed limiters than when the driver meets brands on almost every corner. So even this comparison doesn't apply to brands. I ask too much that we give trust to people, to trust in their responsibility, to enforce that responsibility, and not to be the ones who want to protect people from themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u61	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Your performance brought up three factual points. First I will ask Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to the speaker's desk, Patrik Nacher and Berenika Peštová will prepare. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u62	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Freedom of people... It's freedom about whether I drink or not, whether I follow the rules or not. That's what freedom really is about, but to say that we who are in favour of not drinking when I'm running something don't recognize people's freedom, I'm sorry, that's an argument worthy of this House. I'm sorry, you know I don't attack people, but this is really low-key. Drinking to be confused with freedom is simply unacceptable to me. I would like to be more specific: please, the law is not tightening up here, it is loosening up here! I ask all those discussing to read it or not to speak. As far as traffic signs are concerned: yes, I agree, fewer traffic signs yes, it would be fine, but there are still some other rules, and some of us are breaking the rules, they are breaking normally. Please, just because someone's breaking the rules, are we gonna change all these laws? [[11.50 hours]] I promised my colleague Munzar I wouldn't perform unless I was forced to. I felt compelled by this contribution to perform. I promise my colleague I'll try not to get out again, but I can't guarantee it, because it's a sensitive question for me. And I'm sorry, I think I just have a different opinion, but that doesn't mean I'm denying people's freedom! I really wouldn't want to hear that in this House again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u63	Thank you for keeping time. Your performance raised further factual points. I would also like to ask all Members, although I know that we are speaking here, there is certainly a debate in order, but I would nevertheless like to ask you to remain calm when the speakers speak. At this point, I would ask for Mr Patrik Nacher to come to the speaker's desk, and Berenika Peštová, Nina Nováková and Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u64	So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, I'm gonna try my last time, but don't take that as a promise, because maybe somebody's gonna provoke me to get out again. I would like to respond to my honored colleague, Jana Pastuchová, to collect political points, because it doesn't stay here. That is not true, because the proposal is signed by representatives of all or almost all of the MPs. That means this is really going across, like we said here. Munzar's colleague simply ran around and there were Members from all the MPs who felt the same way. As far as alcohol is concerned, I don't know how to argue anymore. I feel like we're already spinning a little bit in the water vortex, so I can use some terminology. So maybe for colleagues who won't vote for it, maybe we should introduce here to set an example for ourselves, that there would be some kind of alcohol tester, and whoever doesn't go through zero, so it should be forbidden to speak on a microphone. So now that we're ordering what people are supposed to do out there, so that we can follow it ourselves, because even this - I'm the first one to... I'm up for it, too, because we're setting an example. [[Let's hear it from the O.R.]] And when people who haven't been drinking, and then they go to the microphone, and then at the same time, we forbid those people to have one beer after lunch, and two hours later they go somewhere on the boat, then at that point people don't have to follow it, even because they don't have good examples. So I'm gonna ask everyone who votes against this amendment to back up, like I'm gonna come up with this abstinence initiative here, I'm gonna come up with that, so it's gonna be credible that everyone who drinks on the microphone, so they're gonna breathe in here, and if they don't have zero, they're gonna be banned from talking on the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Your performance has raised further factual remarks at this time. I ask that Mrs Berenika Peštová come to the speaker's counter, Nina Nováková, Bohuslav Svoboda, Robert králíček and Richard Brabec will prepare. Madame... I'll ask you first, before I press the two-minute limit, so I would ask very much for peace in the Chamber, if there's anything you need to take care of, please go to the lobby! I'll wait, I'm sorry. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u66	Thank you for the floor. Now it's really difficult to perform after my predecessor. I wanted to follow up more freely on the previous speaker who spoke here earlier, Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Skopeček. I say, I did not argue here whether 0.5 pardons yes or no, but rather that it is unsystemic, because indeed, and this has already been said by my colleague Pastuchová, through Madam President, that we now have watermen, and what is the difference between those who ride a bicycle? We all ride bikes. You know, if it's warm, you'd like to have that beer, so it's unsystemic. So either you take everything away from everyone, or you just wasted one sector, that's just waterboats, I really think it's kind of populist: now we're gonna help the watercoach. But there are wheelies, there are those who ride the slopes, you're cold, you just want to get a grog warm or something, that's right, that's wrong too. And it's wrong, or it's not wrong. But I, who have performed before and to which no one has answered me: what happens if this man is really going to do it, to the 0.5 million and doesn't, is not the culprit, he is only a participant. If ours... Well, he's gonna be taken because he's got up to 0.5 per mile, so the insurance company's not gonna pay him anything, and that's just it. But you understand, you on the one hand, you open it, but on the other hand, the insurance company will look at him as the culprit, even if he isn't the culprit. So what do we do to help each other?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u67	Another factual point, Mrs Nováková Nina. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm a little sorry that when we talk here, and it's across the House, we don't listen to what the Minister says, because the Minister clearly stressed that there are two things, one is a ban on alcohol consumption and so on, and then clear rules when something happens and someone is looking for the cause or not. I am not even a sworn adversary of alcohol, but I am very sorry if otherwise my favourite Mrs Ožanová talks about the fact that when we are talking about a small amount of alcohol, she uses such terms as that someone is drinking. He's not the world about being a sworn abstinence, maybe for health reasons, and on the other hand, there's someone who drinks. It's been tried here in the pre-last term, that there was a ban on alcohol, and we know how it went in practice. I ask that we not be hypocrites to listen, as the Minister explains, and I will support the amendment that is across the political spectrum, the amendment under which Mr Munzar is signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u69	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, will be delivered by Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u70	As Patrik Nacher says, I didn't want to perform anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u71	Please, fellow Members, to be quiet, let the Member speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u72	I didn't want to perform anymore, but I have to get off because we're talking about things that have their clear medical specifications. The term "drinking" and "drinking" doesn't really belong to that specification, we say it differently in medicine, more gently, more decently, but it simply means a certain amount of alcohol. In a complete alcoholic theory, anyone who drinks one beer a day. He's a bigger alcoholic than the one who gets drunk once a week as it sounds. I would be very happy if we could just start talking really. We are talking about the fact that people who drink one beer have no medical damage to their judgment and decide it is their decision, and if they cause an accident, they will be prosecuted just like those who have nothing at all. That's what we're dealing with here, and I'm saying again, it's a medical term that's clearly defined, and you're mixing two completely different things that are incomparable. It's incomparable to drink one beer and it's incomparable to drink a liter of hard liquor. It has different medical names, it has different implications, and it's not the thing we're talking about right now because you're introducing something that's not a condition after drinking one beer. It's a completely different thing, it has nothing to do with it, medically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u73	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr králíček. I'll just say before that Mr Zuna cancels his afternoon apology. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u74	Mr President, I would like to respond in those two minutes to a few of my previous speakers, including you. I like how our largest liberals, as a colleague of Nacher, as a colleague of Mr President, say or label here. Vice-President Skopeček said that if I disagree with the changeling, I do not recognize freedom and so on and so forth, and Mr Nacher said, if we do not agree with the changeling, we cannot drink here and breathe. Well, on the one hand, you're liberals, but on the other hand, if someone disagrees with you, then some kind of punishment or labeling. [[12.00 hours]] And when we're having fun - I'm not even a doctor, I don't understand medicine - and here, unfortunately, I'd have to look back or comment on my colleague Nacher. Well, here we have a typical double standard of his. So for some topics breaking some conventions is bothering, very annoying, we won't break them, I won't bring it up, and for other topics like this, breaking conventions, that means zero, never mind. So that's a double standard - a demonstration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u75	After Mr Králíček, Mr Brabec will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I think it is beautiful to see here from these speeches that all parties and movements are likely to have a free vote, because otherwise it would have ended in a terrible rally in the clubs, and perhaps even physically. I have to say, I also agree with the idea that Jana Pastuchová, Berenika Peštová and others said here. I wonder if really those who are defending some water level vacation today would really defend it on a bike or on a piste. And it's important that they actually say it like that. Because I really don't think it's a fundamentally different situation. Patrik Nacher amused me, it was a divisive thought here, I'm sure I'm applying for it too. I'll take a breath. So I feel that some of these speeches - I don't mean today, but in general - can't even be heard soberly. [[Let's hear it for the various Members.]] And I think the public's gonna back me up sometime. But I'd love to join that. You know we're always, sometimes we're attacked like the sněmovna, that we should breathe. Okay, that's what I'm applying for. And the question is, can our speeches... they're taken as some kind of weapon of mass destruction that can cause it, like if you just drink on a bike and then cause a car accident. But I don't want to downplay it, because I think the subject is pretty serious. But it's important to me if those who are actually floating here today for a permissible limit in the case of a ship, some small craft, a raft, a scoop, or something else, on a canoe, so if they would still do it... Because then it would be the freedom against the paternalism that Vice-President Skopeček is talking about - whether they would do it in the other sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u77	Your time is up. Thank you. Vice-President Skopeček is now registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u78	I am still responding to Mrs Ožanová from the initial discussion. When we respond to each other, my colleague, through Madam President, let us listen to each other. I didn't call for freedom to drink. If we're talking about 0.5 per mile in the blood, I don't think the adjective of drinking is part of it, and it's more for cheering up the hall here. That's one thing. And I wasn't talking about freedom to drink or drink or to have 0.5. I was talking about the freedom of a man himself to consider without the state dictating whether he will drink or not, whether he will have one beer or not, whether he will go on that ship without beer or with one beer, and whether he will be responsible for any misconduct or damage he will cause. I think it's better to let people take responsibility for that freedom. I was also not talking about any freedom of drinking without responsibility in my contribution. In my speech, I pointed out that, in addition to having one beer, it does not take responsibility from it, it is not taken out of it or in other situations, and that I am able to strengthen that responsibility for the freedom of action. And I was talking about the larger contribution of a person who causes something under the influence of alcohol - for example, health care, which then costs all those who contribute to the treatment. So, please, let's listen to each other. You were talking about something that was underhanded. If there was something wrong with you, it was your reaction to me, because nothing you defined against, I didn't say in my performance. I thank my colleague Králíček for the designation of liberal. Even if he added a classic adjective to it, it would be better, because today the term is already being stolen by some people with completely different political views.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u79	Mr President Excellent and followed by Mr Nacher. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I can't even use them. I wanted - it rarely happens - but to express that I agree exactly with what my colleague králíček said. Definitely thank you, maybe I wouldn't have said it better. But I wanted to make a quick comment on what my colleague Nacher and maybe some others said. And I know he didn't mean it like that. But let's not really create the idea that there are 200 Members sitting here who are unable to go behind this counter and for this microphone without a glass of beer or hard alcohol or anything like that. It really isn't. I'll have Birell for lunch, and until the House meeting is over, I won't drink either. That's the way it's supposed to be. But let all of us decide. And please, let's not create such an idea that 200 alcoholics are sitting here. It really isn't. However I know my colleague Nacher didn't mean it like that. And at the end of the request, please, nicely: the debate here is like a copycat from last term. If we pull up the tape screen, it's really Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V. And I feel as though I'm not denying the right to have any debate here and anything that we're really spinning around here in circles or in faith, like someone said. Indeed, we will not see to this matter. If we were able to rationalise the reactions and move on, so that other important laws - about medicines, the civil service and others - could be passed - I think it would be good for all of us. We won't see for ourselves. There's always the same argument. It's across the clubs. Let's respect that. I, too, will respect the outcome, however I vote. And please, let's just keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u81	Mr Nacher now wants to respond with a factual point and Mrs Ožanová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also be rational. I must say that this is probably the first amendment in history that breaks down old friendships and creates new friendships. [[Laughs in the hall. Let's hear it for a few Members.]] So in that case, I've exhausted my arguments. I'm glad my colleague Výborný described it as I didn't really mean it, or that he didn't respond to what he said to me originally. And I, for the moment, so that we don't hurt those other friendships, will leave the O.R. and come back to the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u83	Mrs Ožanová is another with a point of fact. Mr Hofmann will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u84	Thank you. Madam President, I will try to promise my colleague Munzar that this is really the last time. However, I will probably do the same as my colleague Nacher, because it will probably be easier for everyone. But can I say that the Vice-President, through you, Madam President, actually how did I understand what he said? He said: Only those who will vote for this 0.5 per cent are for people's freedom. That's why I took off so hard. Maybe you didn't get it that way. I understood it this way from your speech, which is why I was so sharp, because I think that if I have a different opinion, it doesn't mean that I am against people's freedom. I beg you, I consider this reaction of yours to be inadequate. Maybe we should listen to what we said later and then discuss it somewhere else at the beer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u85	Thank you. Now, with Mr Hofmann's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u86	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just like to make a remark like that. We're talking about water safety and ships without machinery. Just an example in Croatia. I'm a sailor. I don't know if the sea is safer than the river or not. I don't think it's really. However, in the coastal waters of Croatia is allowed 0.5 per mile of alcohol for the management of the yacht, and by that we mean a yacht within 24 metres of the length of the ship. So they normally allow you, as captain, to drive a 24-meter ship with a 0.5-promil. And it's all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u87	Thank you for keeping time. We are going back to the debate. Before Mr. Lochman steps up to the counter, I'll read the apologies that came in the meantime. Eva Decroix apologizes for working reasons for the whole day. Tomio Okamura apologizes from 11.40 to the end of the day for work reasons. Petr Fiala apologizes from 11 o'clock for work reasons and Mikuláš Bek apologizes for the whole day without giving any reason. And now I will ask Mr Lochman to take the floor. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] He's already been talking, and he hasn't been erased before me? Am I getting this right? [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Yes, I've taken control. So that's it. The Member has already spoken. And now, Mr Berki is ready to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is true that this law is interesting by creating different situations. I guess I never expected to perform so it doesn't look like my colleague Ožanová is the only one in this House who thinks what she thinks. Let me take a few notes, and at the advice of Mr. Benda, when I was discussing other laws, I kept it for proper registration. I had no idea, however, that I would not be able to speak until quite later, so I hope that you will understand which things I am responding to. The first thing is that we're talking about the tolerance of the level of threat that actually arises, and we're still only wondering if this person is threatening himself or threatening someone else, but on that water, we're getting into situations where he's potentially threatening the person who's going to save him. It's not just about bumping into someone, it's about someone trying to help me. Next thing. Yes, it's about freedom of choice if I have a beer for lunch, and I believe some people like it after lunch, but I have to say, it takes tea to digest. It doesn't have to be just beer. At the same time, and I respect that, some say that we simply tolerate a certain amount of drinking after some activities. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to realize that I can really take a break after the beer, for example, before I take control of anything. The question originally asked Mr Nacher if everyone is convinced. I hesitated at first. I have to say, I'm going to vote against it now on the basis of the debate. And I'll explain why. One thing is that these laws are also to some extent symbolic. Alcohol has become a socially tolerated drug. I respect that someone's set it that way. However, I think that when the Minister of Health here said about the issue of alcoholism in young people, we have to point out that again we are going back to the examples in adults. If we say that for some activities we will lose. k. be one beer at a time, then wonder how the youngsters translate it. Last but not least, I'm going to have one gloss. If people behave responsibly, rationally and ethically, we don't need any laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u89	Mr. Sládeček is now registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Now I don't know if... he's here! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As my colleague Kobza has already said, we should not be subject to pressure to ban and control everything. On the contrary. We should allow people to develop their responsibility for their actions. And we discussed this proposal very carefully at the club, and after careful consideration of all aspects, in this case, in the SPD club, we decided to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u91	Thank you. We are moving further in the debate on Mr Kolovratník, followed by Mr Feranec, who has volunteered from his post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u92	It's gonna be a brief sum from me to all the other things in the law. It is no longer worth commenting on this amendment. Patrik Nacher and other colleagues said so. It's really across our deputies. Even in our YES movement, we have decided to vote freely, so it will be up to each of us to decide on this amendment. That's ad one. After all, a brief mention when I see that my colleague Pastuchová is not here. She mentioned - perhaps completely unnecessary - it's a shame if it's a personal discussion that it's some kind of pre-election rhetoric. It's not. Again, it's a proposal that was here a year ago, and it hasn't been in time, so we're just going back to it now, and that's absolutely non-political by the Ministry of Transport. I already told you. It is the implementation of European law as the main carrier, the amendment of the law. This is the amendment that we processed in the Economic Committee in June before the summer season, not now because of the elections. Well, that's just for explaining. But I repeat, in our club as a guarantor for the ANO movement, I state or report that we will have a free vote. But there is still one group of important amendments for those involved in the operation on water or in the management of vessels, and this concerns the licence of captains, the leaders of small vessels. They are tens of thousands of certificates at risk of expiry, especially those of the older ones issued before 2015. So then, in that group of amendments B1, B2, B3, they shift efficiency and extend deadlines so that people can exchange. Well, that reminds me, maybe even the press media. I'm asking them to do some education, and there's really a lot of them, so that people don't have to drop their IDs for nothing and they don't actually have to get their licenses on the boat again in quotes. So people are given longer time to trade. That's ad one. Ad two. A message for the Minister. We consider the law as a whole to be non-conflict, so, of course, we will support it with a positive vote, a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u93	Thank you, and now Mr Feranec is registered, so far the last one registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everything about this law has been said here, or about 0.5 per mile, and it has already been completed in the last term of the election...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u95	I'm sorry, I don't want to interrupt you, but the noise has already reached an unbearable level, so I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to move their talks into the foyer. Please keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u96	Thank you. I'll be brief really. My colleague Skopeček said it was about a different view of the world between that view - individual freedom and that paternalist approach. I will offer a different view of this problem, between individual freedom and the right of others to be protected, because it really isn't just about the leader, it's about the crew and so on, about other participants. And I'm just gonna remind you how it happened in the past period. We had the law, it was submitted by a colleague from the pirát, at the third reading it was half-and-half, so it returned to second reading and I tabled an amendment, obviously written by the Ministry of Transport, which excluded the consumption from important waterways, that it actually made it possible only on insignificant waterways. And what happened next? We approved it, it went to the Senate. How'd it go? It came back to us, including the cyclists, of course. Including cyclists. And then we rejected it as a whole. So it's actually a zero-tolerance breach. And for me, it's really wrong to break through, and I say we open pandořiný's locker. There'll be more. And Pandořin's box has such a quality. She's either closed or open. And it doesn't matter if it's open completely or per millimeter. It's open. So if we don't want some nasty stuff coming out of it, let's not open it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Exner wants to respond to your speech with a factual point, and I will once again ask my fellow Members to keep their voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u98	I would like to respond not only to my previous speaker. I'm still missing one thing here. So what we're saying is that if someone does something drunk, they're going to hurt someone, that they're going to deal with it more strictly, or just that it's going to be a aggravating circumstance. But it still bothers me that it's the prevention that we're saying here that let's say it's going to be 0.5 per mile, or even if it's zero, there's a fine, if I've read it well, up to 50,000 crowns, and who's going to enforce it in the prevention, so that there's not just going to be mass drunk people there, whether it's going to exceed zero or 0.5. Well, that's what I'm missing. I didn't hear the answer from the liquor attorneys on the boat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u99	Mrs Válková is now registered with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, Pandořin's box, described very precisely by my colleague, Mr Feranc, has one more unpleasant quality, because you can never predict the extent to which it will intervene - that is unpredictable, and in the right of unpredictability is a sign of weak rule of law - other legal areas and legal prohibitions and orders. I'm gonna follow up on that and try to answer what the previous speaker just said, that the question of law enforcement has not been answered. It wasn't. On the other hand, we need to realise that we have a lot of legislation, including criminal legislation, which is unfortunately not enforceable enough, and in practice they often do not work precisely because the authorities that are supposed to apply them either can't do it, or they are doing it wrong, or even somewhere they are not doing it at all. I don't have time to give specific examples in two minutes. But are we going to abolish this legislation because of the lack of law enforcement? I don't think any of us want that. So I'm pointing out the risk. After opening Pandora's locker, an unpredictable effect. And I point out a little bit that the enforcement of Czech law is insufficient so far, and it should not lead us to fail to adopt legislation where we are not 100% sure that it will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u101	Thank you for keeping time. Now no one is reporting in the debate, if that is still the case, then I am ending the debate. Is there interest in final words? Neither the appellant nor the rapporteur are interested. I will therefore call my colleagues from the front and proceed to the vote on the amendments, because the proposal to repeat the second reading did not fall. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u102	So we have a total of five votes in front of us. As a guarantee committee, the Economic Committee recommends voting in the following order. I will read the order and just before the vote I will say my views. So first, we will vote on Amendment A, then PN B1, PN B2 and PN B3. And the fifth vote on the law as a whole. So if we could proceed to our own vote, I would...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u103	I still wonder if there were proposals for legislative technical amendments? If not, they are not filled. Yeah, okay, then it's okay. I think the procedure itself is quite easy in this case, yet I ask whether there is a proposal to change the procedure, or does anyone want to vote on it? I don't think that's really necessary. Because I do not see any such proposal, I ask you once again, colleagues and colleagues, to keep our voices down before the vote itself. I will ask the rapporteur, therefore, first of all, to present to us on Amendment A what is the position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u104	The opinion of the Guarantee Committee shall be without an opinion. And I'll just briefly recall what we're voting on. It is an amendment to the guarantee committee and it is about excluding the responsibility of the leader of a small vessel under precisely defined conditions related to the drinking cruise. I repeat, the Economic Committee has no opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u105	The petitioner's opinion? [[- Agreed.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote on the proposed amendment. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 65 registered 147 present, for 86, against 33. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur, what are we voting on next?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u106	So now we should vote on the three amendments by Mr Munzar. Firstly, it is Amendment B1 - the possibility for holders of certificates for the management of a small vessel to exchange their already invalid documents at an additional time, that is one year from the entry into force of the law. Opinion of the Economic Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u107	And the petitioner's position? [[- Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on the motion tabled and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 66 registered 150 present, for 140, against none. The motion was accepted. Please move on to the next proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u108	We will be voting on PN B2, removing the existing redundant agenda under the jurisdiction of the State Fair Administration concerning the investigation of a type of road accident. Opinion of the Economic Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u109	The petitioner's opinion? [[- Agreed.]] Initiating the vote, I ask, who is in favour of the motion? Who's against it? In vote number 67 registered 150 present, for 140, versus 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u110	We are now voting on Amendment B3, an amendment to the law's effectiveness. The Act shall take effect on the 1st day of the 3rd calendar month following the publication of the Act. Opinion of the Economic Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u111	And the petitioner's position? [[- Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 68 registered 150 present, for 139, against none. And so the proposal was accepted. We have dealt with all the amendments, if I am not mistaken, Mr rapporteur. Isn't that right? [[Rapporteur: Yes, it is.]] That is why we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 114/1995 Coll., on Inland Navigation, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 206, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm interested in checking you out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your ID cards. I remind you that we have a final vote before us on the motion for a resolution tabled. And I'm initiating it. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 69, 139 are present, for 119, against 1. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And I thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteur. This is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u112	Thank you, Madam President. I'm only voting 65. I voted against, and I've got a pro on high. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u113	Thank you, too. Since no one else has to vote... Mr. Vondráček is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u114	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't get the voting device to work after the check-out. I voted in favour, I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-001-106.u115	But we should probably repeat the vote if you didn't get it up and running. [[That's not necessary.]] If there is no objection, then we can continue and the proposal has been approved. However, next time the vote doesn't work, please signal and we will try to fix it in time. I now conclude on this point. Coming to point number
