ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws /house print 301/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u2	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. In my second reading, I would like to make this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act very briefly, House Press 301. I, at first reading, described what was the subject of this legislative regulation. Now I'm just going to briefly underline the most important thing. It's an adjustment that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u3	I'll cut you off, Minister. Please, my colleague and colleagues, we have already begun to discuss paragraph 14, so I ask you to either keep your voice down or transfer your discussions outside the Chamber so that we can start discussing our points with dignity today. I'm asking a lot of silence in the right side of the room and in the left side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u4	Thank you. The purpose of this adjustment is primarily to solve so-called rescue early departures. The subject has been discussed very intensively here. We have completed the adjustment so that the definition of the possibility of early retirement for medical paramedics has clear rules, which are contained in this proposal. Steps are made to make this amendment effective by the end of the year, i.e. before 1. 1. 2023, when then we have a duty to start implementing this possibility of earlier departure here. This is also linked to an increase in higher contributions to insurance premiums, which would not create another significant burden on expenditure on the so-called pension account. There are also amendments to some other educational requirements, which I will then comment on at the end of this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 301/1. And I am now asking that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any amendments that may be made to us. The rapporteur, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u6	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. The Social Policy Committee discussed this bill at its 18th meeting on 5 October 2022 and adopted this resolution. It is a resolution on the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws - it is already mentioned by the House Press 301. [[9.10 hours]] "After the justification of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Iva Merhautová, the report by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some laws, House Press 301; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations." In addition to this resolution, I would like to say that we have discussed some aspects of the committee, such as whether the transfer of shift hours or shifts per hour is clearly defined in that government draft, so that it is clearly defined. We will respond in some way to this by amendments. Some other aspects have been discussed, but this will certainly be mentioned here today in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u7	Thank you very much. I am opening a general debate in which two Members have so far signed up. Mr. Mašek will be the first to speak. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u8	Mr President, Minister, I would like to put forward here the amendment of Members Jiří Mašek, Milan Brázdil and Jana Pastuchová, which is about early pensions for rescue workers. I would like to remind you here that, in the last parliamentary term, we have adopted a large majority of the Chamber of Deputies a law that approved these pensions for rescue workers, early pensions. They went through the Senate, so the president signed them. Unfortunately, there have been legislative errors that have failed to correct in the Senate, and there has been a law that has been in force since 2023, but it has not actually been possible to use it precisely for those technical errors. That is why Minister Jurečka is now coming in with a law that has removed these errors, but he is taken differently, he is the first of the laws that deal with so-called difficult professions and early retirements. I therefore respect that this is a system-based proposal, it will have its continuation, but it does not bring to the paramedics what the law we have passed here, and that is the possibility, after 20 years of service in the rescue service, to retire up to 5 years earlier with the condition of 60 years of age. This law, presented by Minister Jurečka, actually reduces the benefit for rescue workers by half and after working 4 400 shifts, which corresponds to those 20 years, can be left 2.5 years earlier, and then for every 74 shifts worked another month before retirement, and that means that those 5 years of departure, as we approved in the last parliamentary term and the way the law still applies, will get those rescuers after 30 or more years of rescue services. Our amendment is that § 36D para. 3 We propose to adjust: "The shift in the employment of a medical paramedic is considered to be 8 hours of the work of a medical paramedic. The number of shifts in the employment of a medical paramedic shall be determined in the manner set out in the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security.'; Reason: Explicit definition of the concept of exchange is avoided by misinterpretation and differing approach of individual medical rescue services in calculating the health care professional's entitlement and retirement age. Secondly, in Section 37E, we propose in the sentence: "The pensionable age of the insured person referred to in Section 37D shall be determined by deducting 30 calendar months from the retirement age provided for in Section 32 for the first 4 400 shifts worked in the medical care professional's employment and one calendar month for each additional 74 shifts worked in the medical care professional's employment and the pensionable age shall be considered to be the age achieved in the last deducted calendar month on the day on which the number coincides with the date of birth of the insured person; If the calendar month thus determined does not contain such a day, the pension age shall be deemed to be the one reached on the last day of the last day of the concerned (?) months" change number 74 to number 44. Reason: The proposal accepts the basic rule of reduced retirement age, which is based on the principle that the pension age is reduced from 4,400 shifts in the medical rescue profession by 30 calendar months, i.e. after working around 20 years. It is based on the assumption that the average number of shifts per calendar year is rounded to 220. Another part of the proposal to reduce the retirement age by one calendar month for every 74 worked shifts, however, is considered to be disproportionary. In practice, a medical paramedic will have to work a total of 30 years to qualify for an old-age pension. This fact is also mentioned in the MPSV's explanatory memorandum. However, a reduction in the pension age may amount to a maximum of 60 calendar months, which corresponds to about 30 years worked in this profession - 30 calendar months for 4 400 shifts, i.e. about 20 years and another 30 calendar months times 74 shifts is 2,200, i.e. approximately 10 years. Therefore, in line with the concept of the originally adopted legislation, which stipulated that the reduction of the pension age of 5 years will be possible for medical rescue workers after 20 years of employment in the components of the integrated rescue system, we propose to reduce the number of worked shifts, in such a way as to bring us closer to the legislator's original intention. The proposal is also based on the recommendation in the OECD study of 2020 on the status of the Czech pension system, which recommends a significant reduction in the minimum number of years needed to obtain entitlement to both the basic and the percentage pension ratio when reaching retirement age and the basic pension ratio to adjust in proportion to the period of insurance. And now I want to explain. In this amendment, we recommend that we reduce the number of 74 worked shifts to obtain another month of early retirement to 44 worked shifts, and that would actually mean a compromise between what we adopted in the last parliamentary term, that is, after 20 years of work and the completion of 60 years of age up to 5 years of early retirement, to a situation where we would have come to the conclusion that this would not have been after 20 years, but compromiseably after 25 years, would have been entitled to those 5 years of earlier retirement, and not after 30 years as is in the proposal of Minister Jurečka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u9	Thank you, too. Let me just remind you that the reasons for the amendments are more part of a detailed debate, where I would ask you to make a formal declaration on this amendment. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Brázdil. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have not listened to your colleague Jirka Mašek, who is an ambulance doctor as much as I am. We who know what we're up to are full of it. I must tell you that the way to make an integrated rescue system at least somehow similar to those benefits is very painful. It is so that during the last parliamentary term we tried to do this for the entire IRS, so that even those who fail to reach the pension can, let's say, retire early, and it should have been for everyone. It passed, as my colleague Mašek said, but apparently there are mistakes. I'd like to ask the Minister what's next in the law? The paragraph is there, it is valid, now another option is added - who decides whether the first option is feasible in any way or not? The Czech Social Security Administration is the one to say? We can't do that? Or who's gonna decide? Court? However, I will return to what is being presented today. You may remember how mountain and health rescuers were up here, and from this counter, Minister Jurečka promised that he would do better himself. Well, if he did it himself, I don't know, but no better. We currently have a draft that actually shortens it. What you voted for at the end of the last parliamentary term, Minister Jurečka also voted on it and said: "Yeah, that's great, and actually the effort was to make it possible to go five years into early retirement if it met the criteria of the law. [[9.20 hours]] Between you and me, I'm going to repeat, please, we're deciding 50 people here. These are 50 people - paramedics plus one of the Mountain Service. There's probably 100 of them, and maybe once a year or two years from the Mountain Service, one of them will reach it, so 51, 52, 55 - it's hard to say - people. And how difficult it is, how complicated it is that this House here can't agree on what it really wants. So we appreciate the work, we want to unite the integrated rescue system so that their benefits are the same, don't we? Well, I don't want to bother you, though. I see some of you are already mad at me for performing here repeatedly. I perform repeatedly because it concerns me. Maybe a conflict of interest, but I also want to help colleagues who I think deserve it - not only for what they've done to the state, but it's some sort of ability, some kind of benefit or recruitment character, the service, to work as a field doctor under the fire of criticism, where a lot of aggressive people and all that. It's not an easy job. Every job is complicated, but here we've been trying to get the IZS to be united so we can have at least a little bit of the same benefits. This proposal is improving, but we're not halfway there to match firefighters and cops. So let me once again thank you for having this, on the other hand, for expressing regret. It could have been better, it was better, it's better in the law. I just don't know what's gonna happen first, which section says it's gonna be, so if the minister can explain it. Maybe he'll explain, so I'll be glad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs Pastuchová is now registered with a factual remark. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u12	Thank you. I will not go on to do this because my colleagues did it, but I feel the duty that I should do, and that is to apologize to President Excellent, by your means - because he said that the Minister will do it, the law has put it forward, so you were right - for the words that I would bomb you. You did, but the other side is how you did it. I'm sorry that the law with our legislative error has really been passed here, and we apologized for that. We wanted to make it right, we couldn't make it right. When we asked as paramedics at the Minister's press conference, if it's gonna be the same, he didn't answer, that's true, so he didn't promise. But we've been offering a compromise here for 25 years, you're giving 30. We've been giving 20, now we've been compromising for 25 years. So let us at least agree on this together and approve this amendment for those rescuers. I felt the obligation to apologize for bringing it up, it will apply from 1. 1. 2023, but I can't apologize for not really being corrected in that version that we've already approved once. So I'm begging you all, let's all compromise. We retreated, you back off for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u13	Yes, that was a factual point. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka is now logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u14	Thank you. I, with permission, would like to comment here in the general debate on the two amendments that I will be presenting here. The first one is not only mine, but it is a whole other group of Members. It concerns the solution to reducing the pensions of former Communist regime prominents. This proposal follows up on the parliamentary proposal that I tabled at the end of the last term of office of the Chamber of Deputies. At the time, I created it on the basis of the inspiration of Slovak legislation. I honestly admit that he was certainly not perfect, because each of the Members always has more limited options than the entire ministry. We have therefore developed this proposal on this issue at ministerial level. We were unable to put it right into the beginning of the whole legislative process, because we were still really consulting and communicating not only with the Slovak party, but also with the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. The proposal is therefore now complete. I think it covers the issue quite well. It defines which groups of persons will subsequently have a reduced retirement pension by this principle. These are really prominent, high-ranking representatives, whether they were members or candidates of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, or the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovakia, heads of secretaries of the Regional, District or District Committees of the Communist Party, members of the Government of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic or Chairman of the National Assembly of the Czechoslovak Republic, chairman or mayor of the National Committees when it comes to the Earth National Committees, central national committees, regional national committees and so on. I don't want to read the whole thing, but we've really clearly defined a set of these people here. Our assumption is that these could be units of thousands, estimated somewhere around 3,000 people. For example, when it comes to such elements as StB, military counterintelligence, and so on, it really concerns the top officials, not the common class people, who served there at the time. The principle is set that the reduction would be about CZK 300 for each and every year that these people, these prominents, worked for the communist regime. Yes, we can discuss whether it's early or late. I think it could have come sooner, but better now than never. This similar adjustment was adopted by most states of the so-called former Eastern bloc. I think it is also a question of some degree of justice and of dealing with the situation where these people have perspirated a large part of the population of Czechoslovakia, their families, wives, children and so on. These people were often unable to study or work fully; today, thanks to the regime's repression, they may also have lower old-age pensions. I think it's fair to say that we're going to make some sort of adjustment here. It's not a setup of justice, it's not possible, but it's a certain setup. So that is this amendment. The second amendment concerns the modification of the organizational structure of the Czech Social Security Administration. Here I want to say that we originally had the ambition to present this with a separate amendment, but given that when we manage to adopt this proposal now, we are able to take some steps next year, steps that may mean more flexibility in handling the agenda, which is in the Czech Social Security Administration's strategy, flexibility between the workplace and, say, adapting the organizational structure of the 21st century so that the organisational structure is more operational, more flexible, more efficient. So that is the justification for these two amendments. In a detailed debate, I will still apply to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u15	Thank you, too. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u16	Good morning again, dear colleagues. Before I go to the presentation of the four amendments that we are going to put forward in a detailed debate, a brief discussion on the debate that has taken place here. I must say that we have not only discussed here, but we have actually discussed between committee discussions and colleagues, both within the coalition and within the opposition. I must say that I very much appreciate the fact that after these very emotional performances and certain fights that have taken place here in recent months, the discussion has returned to a material level. We really had a very substantive discussion - I appreciate it - with my colleague Brázdil, Mašek, Jana Pastuchová and others. We've discussed with those involved. That means we've been discussing with the Rescue Services Association, we've been discussing with the union. Among other things, there has also been one amendment which I will subsequently present. As for what has been said here that we are actually taking something from the paramedics: I am personally convinced that we are not taking anything away from them, we set a little different conditions. However, the goal for rescue workers to be able to retire under certain conditions and after working time - this is where it shifts to those 30 years - to get to it when they need early retirement for health reasons, so this benefit will remain preserved for them. [[9.30 hours]] What we've been watching with this change is that we believe that there should be a certain incentive factor, and we've been repeatedly confronted here with what other IZS files have. And if we look at how the service system is set up, it's also not that if the professional firefighter works - and they have the lowest limit of 15 years - he gets the highest service immediately. It's not like that. At that point, they get that basic pension, and every year they work out, they get that pension up to the maximum limit, which is 55 percent of their wages. There are also certain boundaries that, in the middle age, when they work in the IRS folders, they actually increase their pension more. It's an incentive for them to stay with firefighters, police officers, armed forces even after 15 years. This means that I am convinced that if we have agreed that in the basic version of the government it is set so that after two and a half - I apologize, after 20 years of medical rescue, rescuers will be entitled to an earlier departure of 2.5 years and then for the next 10 years, and that may not be the whole 10 years, but then the system will accelerate. They could be another 2.5 years early in the next 10 years. And if we look at how it really is today, the paramedics aren't really entering an ambulance today at the age of 18, that's not even possible from the point of view of the education system. They're about to get there today at the age of 23, 25. The 30 years worked will be around the 55th year of age, which means, in my opinion, still as if a very good condition. It's more complicated for college students, especially doctors. Doctors have a more complex education system and they actually get to the ambulance sometime around the 28th, 30th, some even later, but even there is a real possibility that they will get to the maximum limit, which means leaving by 5 years. This means, I am convinced that we are not discriminated against by the paramedics, and it has been said by colleagues here, I am also a doctor and I am very intensive in meeting the IZS's components, as an orthopedist and a traumatologist I serve on urgent reception. I very much appreciate the work of paramedics, because I know how difficult it is for them, how they get stressed out, how they often meet aggressive patients, with drunk patients and so on, but even nurses on urgent intakes and they also experience it very intensively. But I don't want to dissect it here anymore. This means the government has chosen a slightly different approach, but it certainly does not discriminate against the paramedics, it offers them the same benefit under a little bit of different conditions. So much for the discussion. And now I would like to present to you four amendments, which I will then apply in a detailed debate. These are amendments which, on the one hand, concern the issue of rescue workers, but they also concern certain other areas, and I firmly believe that you will then support them at third reading. The first amendment is purely legislatively technical, and there is no need to talk about it, and it will then be read under House document 1412. The second amendment concerns a subject that we have discussed intensively, which actually concerns paramedics, and as I said, there was a very detailed discussion here with both the paramedics and the trade unions, and this concerns the conversion of shifts actually to the claim, when it was discussed whether it was possible to look back at what the shifts were - in the body of the law, as presented by the government, it was not quite ideally written, so the amendment is aimed at clearly defining that the exchange is equal to 8 working hours. We all know who we meet with the paramedics, that the shifts are different today, but especially in the past period, they were 24-hour shifts, 12-hour shifts, and so on. That means, even the Health Rescue Services Association says: Yes, we are able - it will be a bit laborious, but we are able - to track those payroll statements and we are able to recalculate it this way. So that's the other amendment to the paramedics. The other two amendments relate to another subject which, if it had not been for the purposes of the procedure of this Act in Section 90 para. 2, would be applied as a separate amendment, however, it is a proposal that also hastens in substance and concerns so-called educational. You know very well that with respect to education, that means a parent's award for a raised child, we've been talking about four or five years. In 2018, KDU-ČSL presented a proposal for parents, especially women, to be awarded 500 crowns for each raised child at their retirement pension. Then it was represented here several times. Finally, and I must say across the House, it was approved in 2021. I am grateful for this, but now that the effectiveness of this change is coming to effect, which is to 1. 1. 2023, there have been some application doubts, and this concerns two groups of residents. One day, people who have an invalidity pension are actually going to be transformed into an old-age pension right, and here, if there was no adjustment, these people would be reduced. That means, whether it's a woman or a man, they couldn't be entitled to the increase of 500 crowns. The amendment amends this. We think it is necessary, and I will say the number, it concerns about 46,000 eaters, so that this is levelled and there is no discrimination. And the last amendment concerns another population group, and these are widows, widowers, especially widows, when there is actually a transfer of widow's pension again, or there may be a conspiracy of widow's old age pension, and here it would be that it would be reduced in half, which we also consider to be discrimination. So many four amendments. I firmly believe that you will join them and support them at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u17	Yes, and your speech raised two factual points, Mr Mašek will be the first to speak, Mr Brázdil will be prepared. Ambassador, please, you have the floor and two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u18	Yes. Thank you. Mr President, I would like to respond, by your means, to my colleague Kaňkovský, to mention the paramedic here and compare it with the firefighters and police officers in the area of service and possible earlier departures for the service. That's why it came about, because rescue workers don't have that option because they're not in the service, that's the basic premise. Furthermore, there is an incomparable comparison, because here is the parameter of early retirement, the paramedic must reach 60 years of age plus the number of shifts, and because a number of doctors and paramedics have a divided time, for example, with the hospital, that they work at 0.2 in the hospital and at 0.8 in the ambulance, then it happens that he doesn't really get to work after 30 years, while 80 percent of work is working in the field, driving under beacons, risking his life in a number of cases. So here I'd like to say, that's why this is the reason, which is why we've been setting the parameter for the 20 years worked, or the corresponding number of conversions, and that's the main reason for it to just be the paramedic, if he can't physically and mentally reach it. Furthermore, I would like to say that this is also burdened by a large contribution from an employer who will rise - 2, 3, 4 percent of the wage in the pension account, and it will be richly, richly prepaid, because the rescue workers will not use it far from their pensions. Therefore, we ask that this be discussed, considered and reduced the entitlement to the 25-year compromise in the calculated shifts worked. I think that's a lot of rational reasons to think about this, and the pension system doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u19	Another comment will be made by Mr Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u20	I'm not performing anymore. I just wanted to say to all of you: please, the paramedics that we're dealing with right now, they don't take it like I'm quitting or I'm 60 years old and I'm gonna take that pension, 90 percent of them, and I'm pretty sure with the doctors, they're at the top of their knowledge, they have high salaries. So just please, this is just a crutch. [[9.40 hours]] This isn't like - if I use it, ugly - someone's peeing that they want to retire early. They'll stay there. I guarantee you, this mountain rescuer, he's gonna stay there at 61, 62, but if he can't, it's some kind of state's ability to thank him and say thank you. Boy, you're not gonna end up on the pavement, we've noticed, you've been working, so you can keep working without being at work, and we've got some sort of emergency brake. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u21	Thank you. No one is yet registered for the general debate. Still the rapporteur, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u22	I've only had a short time. I am merely saying that, in a detailed debate, I will propose a reduction in the deadline between second and third reading to 10 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u23	Yes, let's write. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask for any final words from the applicant or rapporteur, but I do not register them. The proposal to return the law did not come to the guarantee committee in the general debate, and I therefore initiate a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka is the first to speak in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u24	Thank you. I therefore refer in a detailed debate to the two amendments that I have described and justified in the general debate, namely the amendment under the number 1410, the amendment relating to the reduction of pensions of the Communist Communist regime, and the amendment under the number 1419 concerning the modification of the organisational structure of the Czech Social Security Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Mašek, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u26	Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, as I have already announced, I am signing up for four amendments. The first, as I announced, are legislative technical adaptations, it is the number of the House document 1412. The other amendment by Vít Kaňkovský, Jan Bauer, Martina Ochodnická, Klára Kocmanová, Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, Lucie Šafránková and Jiří Navrátil, under the number of the House document 1414, concerns the topic of conversion of hours worked into shifts, or, respectively, the exact definition of what it means in the Gesture of this Act to avoid doubt in conversions. Another amendment under the number of Parliamentary document 1415 by Members Vít Kaňkovský, Martina Ochodnická, Klára Kocmanová, Jan Bauer, Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková and Jiří Navrátil, which concerns the issue of continuance or the transformation of disability pension into old-age pension and education so as not to reduce the training of such transformed pensions. And the last amendment, the number of the House document 1416, Vít Kaňkovský, Jan Bauer, Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, Klára Kocmanová, Martina Ochodnická, Marie Jílková and Pavla Golasowská concern similar issues, but for widow's pensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u27	Thank you. Let me ask you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u28	At the same time, I will take advantage of this possibility and propose a reduction in the deadline for discussion between second and third reading to 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u29	Yes, thank you very much, and another in the detailed debate is Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u30	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to sign up to the amendment by Members Mašek, Brázdil and Pastuchová, which I have justified and presented here in the general debate here in general, and at the same time referred to House document 1418 as set out in the system. And I would like to ask the Minister and the members of the Social Committee once again to discuss the parameters that we are proposing in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-001-014.u31	Yes, thank you. There is no one else entered into the detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone is reporting from the scene to a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I ask the plaintiff and rapporteur if they are interested in final words? They don't. In a detailed debate, the rapporteur's proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion between second and third reading was made for discussion in committees for 10 days. In the meantime, I have begun to have other Members present in the hall. And we will vote on the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the time limit for committee discussions between second and third reading to 10 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 53, 155 Members were signed in, 141 voted in favour, there was no one against it. The proposal was adopted and we have therefore reduced the time limits for committee discussions to 10 days by vote. I will ask the rapporteur if there have been any other proposals that we can vote on? This is not the case, and I can therefore end the second reading of this proposal and point 14. I thank both the Minister and the rapporteur. We're going to continue with the other fixed points, and I'm going to open the point number.
