ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u1	2. Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for the year 2022 and medium-term outlook for the years 2023 and 2024 /German press 152/ I would ask the Minister of Transport, Martin Kupka, to come to the relevant table, which is called the rapporteur's table. Am I looking to see if the Minister of Transport is in the hall Martin Kupka? I would like to ask the President of the House of Deputies for assistance. We should discuss the point set by the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka and where the rapporteur is Mr Ondřej Lochman. We'll wait a while. Since the President of the ODS MP is discussing the return of the Minister of Transport, I am interrupting for two minutes to 14. 35 hours before this situation is resolved. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 14.33 to 14.35 hours.]] So I'm reopening the negotiations. Mr Marek Benda, President of the ODS MP's club, has applied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u2	I apologize very much to all of you, but it also has to do with the fact that we sat on the Organizing Committee the whole break, and I couldn't get ahold of the Ministry of Transport. The minister will be here in ten minutes, so I'm afraid I have to take a ten-minute break, because we can't toss those points around here anymore. I'm gonna have to ask you for a three-quarter break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u3	Yes, I understand, I'm interrupting until 1445 hours. We'll meet again here at 14.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we can continue after the interruption. I have yet to apologize, Vice-President Jan Bartošek apologizes today from 14:00 to 16:00 for work reasons. Now, since the appellant is present, I can proceed to the opening of paragraph 2, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure's budget for 2022 and the medium-term outlook for 2023 and 2024, Parliament's press 152. This material will be given by the Minister of Transport, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you today the draft budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for this year and at the same time the medium-term perspective period, namely 2023 and 2024, as approved by the Government. I would like to begin by pointing out that the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is prepared as a blank. Currently, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is not the beneficiary of any loan, but it plays the role of the financial manager of the loan to finance transport infrastructure from the European Investment Bank, the beneficiary of which is also the Czech Republic represented by the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic. The budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for this year, which I present to you here today, is based on the design plan approved by the previous Government of the Czech Republic at its meeting on 11 October last year. I would like to say here that I consider this to be the only acceptable decision that there have been no changes in the area of investment. There is therefore no investment saving, the government has clearly stated that it will be a government for investment, and it will also do so in the form of a draft budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for next year. Therefore, if we are talking about the amount of funds that are intended for investment in transport infrastructure, they have indeed been preserved as required by resort investor organisations. After a detailed revision of the prepared budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, our government considers it necessary to reduce by CZK 3 billion this year, from the originally proposed total budget of CZK 130.6 billion we are therefore getting to CZK 127.6 billion. This reduction was made in planned expenditure in the field of operating expenditure, as well as expenditure on repair and maintenance of a total amount of CZK 3 billion. In particular, in my proposal for a budget, I propose to reduce by CZK 2 billion the overall allocation for the Railway Administration in the field of repair and maintenance to a total of CZK 14.4 billion, by the way to the same level as the approved budget for 2020, and ŘSD to the total allocation for maintenance and repair of first-class roads and motorways to CZK 13.6 billion. Of the total budget for this year of CZK 127.6 billion, a total of CZK 38.4 billion is allocated to non-investment expenditure and CZK 89.2 billion is allocated to investment expenditure. The medium-term outlook for 2023 amounts to a total of 97.4 billion and 90,6 billion for 2024. I am fully aware that the medium-term proposal presented does not reflect the reality of the needs of individual investors in relation to the current pace of construction, which is why, in the medium term, a common global item is established for state investors ŘSD and Railway Administration, in which funds are allocated to ensure the gradual financing of nominal investment actions. For the years 2023 and 2024 it will be necessary to resolve the financing of the implementation of investment actions following the development of the state budget. We're well aware of that. We are aware that the trend towards increasing the readiness of major buildings also entails an increase in the financial needs for the implementation of these buildings. Unfortunately, we must follow up on the form of preparation of medium-term prospects in previous periods and in previous years, when unfortunately, the amounts of investment and other costs have been repeatedly determined in those significantly undervalued amounts. In the future, we would like to bring a real outlook in this area, a real number that will reflect not only what is already being built, but also what is planned to be built. The budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the medium-term outlook includes the use of European Union resources. For 2022, the involvement of European resources amounts to CZK 46,1 billion. The most significant in volume is the drawdown under the Operational Programme Transport. In the course of 2022 and 2023, the full implementation of the Operational Programme Transport 2 is foreseen. In the case of the upcoming OPD3 is expected to draw funds from the second half of this year. It plays an important role in supporting the construction of trans-European transport networks, and I assume that it will also play an important role in future years, an instrument for the interconnection of Europe, i.e. the so-called CEF. [[14.50 hours]] In its budget and medium-term perspective, the State Fund also plans to use funds under the instrument for recovery and resilience, amounting to CZK 11 billion for this year and another almost CZK 2 billion in 2023. At the same time, we are prepared in case of updating this tool, getting more resources for important transport projects and we are ready to implement them as well. I am aware that a significant volume of nominal investment actions will be prepared in the medium term, both at the Road and Motorway Directorate and at the Railway Administration, and the necessary resources for the State Fund's budget will need to be adequately provided. In view of this fact, we continue to cooperate with the Ministry of Transport, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in analysing other ways of financing and building transport infrastructure, such as realization of PPP events, and at this time we are already analysing the possibilities of applying this form of funding for the D35 motorway in the most distant - both time and geographically - parts of D35 and we are also considering this possibility in the case of railway lines construction and their modernisation near České Budějovice. We all know that this form of funding is currently being implemented on the D4 motorway, and I will also submit an evaluation of this project to the government in its pre-implementation phase in the near future. And, of course, we also monitor how the construction activity is taking place, and not only the ŘSD itself, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, but also the Ministry of Transport and I personally monitor how the entire work is being implemented in the timetable. I would also like to thank you for the support of the Economic Committee in those resolutions that accompanied the approval of the State Fund's budget for transport infrastructure, and I assure you that as soon as the economic situation and the budget allow it, I will be applying for the strengthening of the funds for the implementation of the other actions that were planned, often promised, but there was no funding for them in the budget itself. I am also prepared, as will allow the situation, to strengthen the funds for repair and maintenance, that is, precisely in those areas where it was essential to save money. I am quite aware that the savings in the field of repair and maintenance have, of course, its averted side, and that we will undoubtedly have to catch up in the years to come, but in the situation in which we took over the state's management and budget, it was essential to take steps to ensure the stability of the entire economy, and, of course, the transport sector must participate in this, in order not to bring significant damage to the Czech Republic, its citizens, and significantly greater restrictions than these capricious savings. In this regard, we also claim responsibility for the whole of the state budget, which you approved a little while ago, as a budget that is sober, which is economical, which will ensure stable conditions and will contribute clearly to the management of the current inflation situation. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much also for the possible support of this draft budget and the medium-term outlook of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u6	I thank the Minister, and I will introduce another apology. [[The cell phone's ringing.]] Please turn off the sound of mobile phones. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes from 14:45 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. I am now saying that this House press that we are discussing has been discussed by the Economic Committee, whose resolution has been delivered as House prints 152/1 and 151/2. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ondřej Lochman, take the floor and inform us both of the committee's deliberations and of the motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u7	Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Minister, I would like to introduce you to the process that has taken place in the light of the preparation of this press. The press has been directed to the Economic Committee. We have been through the various parts that the Minister has been acquainting with, and, as has been said, the budget is balanced. It is also necessary to look at the fact that the year 2022 is costing 127 and a half billion, of which 81 and a half are from national sources, the other 46 are from European sources. This is just to imagine how this heart of our infrastructure, our transport, is actually financed, i.e. in co-financing with European resources. As has been said, the budget is balanced, for investment, where 89.2 billion, i.e. more than two thirds of the budget, are and are aimed at investment. It's a series of individual events. I would also like to mention, and this has also been mentioned in the Economic Committee here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, that the long-term outlook that we also have here in this press is, however, not entirely accurate in terms of the investment pace that is here. This means that the other two, three - three years will definitely need to be strengthened by the transport budget. That is why the Economic Committee draws attention to this, and at the same time this year, adopted a resolution for this year, and I will quote it here, but I will not load it into - or now I do not want to read it into the overall resolution, this is a matter of debate, but we ask the Government of the Czech Republic as an Economic Committee to increase the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in 2022 according to budgetary possibilities during 2022 and thus strengthen the financing of the maintenance of transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic. This was the resolution of the Economic Committee and the request of the Economic Committee to the Government of the Czech Republic. The point is that really also maintenance on railroads, in road construction, needs its care. The budget is enough for us, but it could be better this year. However, we consider it a very good result in terms of the input finance that is here, and, of course, the events of the last few weeks have brought additional costs to the state budget. So much for the rapporteur's report. Only now, Madam President, if we are going to the debate and loading them later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u8	So, Mr rapporteur, you are reporting to a detailed debate, I suppose, then to a general debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u9	Not yet, just technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u10	Yes, we'll wait a while. The rapporteur will probably end the news report now. I note that if you want to read the resolution, it is ideally in a detailed debate. So the rapporteur wants to close his intelligence report, is that correct? [[Member Lochman: Yes.]] Very well, thank you very much. And with this, we will be able to launch a general debate. Mr Martin Kolovratník is signed in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u11	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I announced this in the morning during the debate on the budget that I would like to speak to the SFDI in more detail and more specifically at the moment, so I do. I've listened very carefully to the previous speakers. I see good things in these shows, positive. The rapporteur, Mr Lochman, noted the events or the debate that was on the Economic Committee. At first I initiated it, then I had to apologize for family reasons, and I also want to appreciate this, that, as in previous periods, when the roles were opposite, we did not play the Economic Committee on this or the political shirt, so simply the support of the resort - in this case transport - was unanimous there. This and the vizo together was heard. We, as opposition, will certainly support the accompanying resolution here. But, colleagues, unfortunately, in your statement, I have also noted contradictions, illogical things. If I hear: We know that it is actually little that it will be lacking in repair, that it will be difficult for us, that it will cost us more in the future, so I can understand and respect the Minister's reasoning, we have submitted to a greater whole or interest in coalition to limit the budget deficit, we want to keep our pre-election promise. But I'm responsible for that, at what cost? It's too big a price. And you, colleagues, on the one hand, say that you know that this is not entirely ideal - and I'm sorry, I won't paraphrase or repeat the words exactly - but a few hours earlier, when I proposed to support the resort, at least, sorry, SFDI, at least 3 billion, you voted against. So unfortunately, the words and the deeds are against each other, that's a contradiction, and the act doesn't match the expression, the explanation. And I said that this morning - I didn't propose 7.5 billion or 11, I tried to find a compromise of 3 billion against a government debt operator. That's what we think he could take the budget, but unfortunately, even for those 3 billion government coalitions, she didn't vote and she didn't accept the proposal. But I'm telling you, and it has to be here that the problems potential in SFDI, traffic, are deeper, they're much bigger. 3 billion are true what was presented compared to the original proposal of the original government or the previous government, which approved it on 11 October of the 130.6 to 127.6. Yeah, but let's take a look at the proposal. First of all, on the SFDI's income side, it had to involve another 3.5 billion of outstanding accounts, so we're already at 6.5 billion. Here I would like to remind you, each year as standard SFDI a certain amount, and it was just at this level, 3, 4 to 5 billion, it transferred from year to year, so that it could use and engage them, as the next year develops, as emergency situations such as the settlement of the Railway Administration with ČEZ come in. It was a big, billion-dollar dispute, sometime in the year, I guess - now I'm sorry - 2015, 2016, property replacement, that was the railway station, the railway station building, between the Railway Administration and the Czech Railways in the amount of several billions. A similar unfinished case, a relationship - and I will not hold it up and write it now - between the Czech Railways and the Railway Administration is ahead of us and this year. And this hasn't actually happened. Alena Schillerová, I marked it today, at exactly 10.20 she said, "You're staring the budget to the bone." It was the President on the budget as a whole. And I'm afraid that's what I feel, and I see in the budget of the SFDI that it's gnawed to the bone. I repeat, I return to the Minister, I understand and respect the political explanation, the statement that you want to contribute your part here to the whole, to the deficit reduction, but it really is extreme. It's extraordinarily on the edge, it's extremely dangerous. Unfortunately, what I'm saying right now, I prepared some two days ago, yesterday morning, but what happened yesterday. In the media, we learned about one of those new measures to prevent damage or economic damage due to rising fuel prices, forgiveness of road taxes for entrepreneurs, vehicles up to 12 tonnes. O.K., it can be good, it can help somehow and we can have debates about whether it will help a lot, little or not, but here I'll remind you that the revenue from the road tax - it's estimated by less than 5.5 billion, we're talking about 4.2 billion - is the income of SFDI. So what we heard yesterday from the Minister of Finance Stanjura forgiving the road tax, so he - in other words, it didn't, but the result is - that SFDI will lose another 4.2 billion. And ladies and gentlemen, when I add this up, the amounts I was talking about - there's still that 1 billion on increased tax revenues, and we can trust that - but you, in sum, against the original proposal, you're putting SFDI's budget down 11.7 billion, 11.7 billion! If I take that the total budget of the resort is some plus or minus 107 billion, that's a reduction of more than 10 percent, that's how big it is. And there's one more thing that needs to be said. We're being designed, but we know it won't work. That budget's gonna have to change. He's no longer responding to reality. This too will be a reason for the YES movement not to support the SFDI budget, because it is unrealistic, it simply does not correspond to reality. At the end of my speech, I may add two or three specific concerns about what might cause this. Of course, big investments at the moment are running, they are competing, some are running. If we were having fun, we used the term cash flow, SFDI has the funds at his disposal, which means they're cashing the invoices. Everything's gonna work out for now, but we just don't have that security in the fall. We know we're gonna have to change that, so something's gonna have to happen. Minister Kupka said that he thanked the Economic Committee for the resolution. I thank the committee, too, and I'm glad it was non-political. It's an appeal, it's an appeal to the government, and I believe in this, if the money is found, we'll find a common ground, and we'll definitely support the increase on the committee. But really, ladies and gentlemen, it must be done quickly, it must be done as soon as possible, because the SFDI simply enters into the new year with an amount, I will round it up, almost 12 billion smaller than the original plan, and that is terrifying. We mentioned the Railway Administration. Yes, it will work for a while, but I've had such a close breakup with individual regional directorates and I'll illustrate it in my region, in eastern Bohemia, it's the former East Bohemia region of Hradec... colleague, chairman of the Economic Committee, it's his home region, Královéhradecký and Pardubický kraj. The director of the area, when he calculated the annual need for funds on - not repairs, painting of railway stations, railway stations or facades or railings, but really to ensure operational capacity, means the functionality of the network, so only in one of those regional departments is about 100 million CZK missing at the moment. That's a huge amount, and the director of the area just doesn't know how to proceed. I don't think we're gonna have a long discussion here. I know the Minister can give me the right answer and be correct. Yes, we'll figure it out, we'll look into it in June, July, summer, we'll be able to help. But please understand my position as MP for the opposition, I just have to point this out and I have to warn you. There's another unpleasant impact. We launched a pilot project called cyclical maintenance at the Railway Administration last year. Very simplisticly, it is about monitoring the life cycle of individual sections, individual parts of the railway network and focusing on repairs before they are forced before the track's condition falls apart before emergency. The pilot tried it on you - most of you - well known first railway corridor on the section between Prague, Třebová and Olomouc and proven statistics it turned out that it works, that if you put more into the cycle maintenance in the beginning, then in the long run from 2023, 2024, 2025 you spend less. It's clear to all of us that this project is on ice right now, that it's just gonna stop and not be on it. And I'm going to stop at the end of two investments, and they have to be heard, and I'm going to formulate it -- I'm going to borrow the turnover from the President freely -- as a friendly criticism. [[15.10 hours]] The first event is Prague Main Railway Station - Kladno Airport. This is a project that was launched in the last parliamentary term. At this time the final part from Kladno to Ostrovka for CZK 4 billion is competed, the envelopes were opened on 7 February. So far, as far as I know, if anything hasn't changed, they're not prepared for them in the Railway Administration's budget - if I'm wrong, Minister, I'll be glad, and please take this as a positive appeal that it would be a great shame and very bad thing to drop this event or move it somewhere in time. And so - it may look like a small thing, but it's nice to mention it - is the railway station Teplice. Prime Minister Fiala, as an electoral candidate in the spring of 2020, was filming in Teplice, criticizing Prime Minister Babiš for his unabated promises - I suppose Mayor Hynek Hanza of the ODS advised him - but they did. From June 2020 until this winter the preparation of the project took place, the competition took place, it was competed for some 236 million crowns, those envelopes are already open, and so far for this project again, if I have the correct information, the funds are not yet available. Please consider this not as a bad attack, but as an illustration of two examples, two moments, if those introductory words, if the Minister's introductory sentences, that we would not touch the investment and everything would be void. And this is what we want to watch. So much for me on the SFDI budget as a whole. I repeat, it sounds like a negative 11.7 billion to me, that's the reality. The accompanying resolution, the non-political one, from the Economic Committee, we are ready to support it, but the draft budget of the SFDI as a whole, because you did not agree with the compromise proposal for an increase of 3 billion, unfortunately we cannot support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now two priority rights, namely Vice-President Karel Havlíček and then Minister Martin Kupka. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'll be very brief, but I have one question. One thing is that you need to pour pure wine. The SFDI budget is cut short at this point, so what could be vacuumed was vacuumed. The resources we planned and the other 5 billion have withdrawn by 3 billion, and you know it very well, Minister, you have withdrawn from the resources that were examined there from last year. This money's gonna be missing today, and we can talk about whether they're gonna be missing traffic, maintenance, or if they're gonna be missing investment that could still be handled. But what I consider to be another morning is yesterday's decision by the government that did not pay the road tax. We all know that the road tax is CZK 5.5 billion in the Ministry of Transport's budget, or SFDI, and because it applies not only to the next year, but also to the current year, I would ask if you could tell us how it will turn out - these resources that won't come into the SFDI budget this year - whether the Ministry of Finance will pay them from other sources, or if it falls to the court of the homeland in the sense that they are more billions, we can't tell how much exactly, but in any case it won't be very little, which will be reduced again by the SFDI budget. So what we have worked hard to build over the last few years, we have increased the budget of the SFDI to CZK 130.5 billion for next year - you know that we have raised it by almost 50 percent in the last three years and because of the covid, even because we needed to invest from the crisis - so it is running short in two months. And it's running out in a fundamental way. This means that we already have so much damage to our base for the next 2023 year, where we will need significantly more than this year's base, that in my opinion there may be some CZK 30 to 40 billion missing if I take your medium-term outlook. And I take that with regard to what the Railway Administration and the Road and Motorway Directorate need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u14	Thank you. I'm still stating an apology. Mr David Štolpa apologizes between 15.30 and 16.30, i.e. extending it for work reasons. Likewise, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová extends until 16.15 hours. I now give the floor to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u15	Direct answer: Road tax collection represented CZK 5.4 billion last year, with the fact that this is, of course, the amount that we will have to add to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in further interventions in this year's budget if it goes through the cancellation of the road tax, which we assume is a significant aid to small, medium, but also to larger entrepreneurs for dealing with the current situation and at the same time as an important step, an important part of our oil trifle, which will have an important effect. Mr Kolovratník, through Madam President, said he would be pleased to be wrong. I certainly hope that we will make him happy that he will be wrong about many things. I'm gonna set a few things straight. The said stations, the other things that were said here, well, they didn't appear in the budget either. I stressed once again that we did not touch the only koruna with which the budget of the Czech Republic originally proposed by the previous government with a dramatic deficit was calculated. We had to bring the necessary change in savings as a whole, as a government, for the economic situation of the Czech Republic. The economists and, of course, all the authorities that follow the economic side of the matter responsibly give the government a clear positive assessment, a positive sign for stabilization and gradual recovery of the state budget, and this is important for us to have the opportunity to invest more in the future, so that in the future we can also ensure what funds are simply not for reasons of seriously irresponsible management of the previous government this year. And that also needs to be clearly named, because without that, we can't go one step further. And, yes, I say that as soon as possible, as soon as it turns out how tax revenues are going this year, we're going to look for a way to implement the things that are ready. We will look for further funding opportunities in PPP projects as well, and logically we will also look for ways to get more money from European funds into transport infrastructure, which represents a clear priority in cross-cutting terms. We are also thinking about this, analyzing what else transport infrastructure could use from European money to really strengthen the funds that flow here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u16	Thank you. And now, President Alena Schillerová, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I've had the stew taken from Minister Stanjura's final speech, not just because of the Secretary of Defense, but mainly because I'm listening to the debate now over the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. "What we really need" - I quote now - "in the opinion of the government, there is peace, balance sheet, sufficient data and qualified decision-making, I will not be preparing an amendment to the state budget in the coming days and weeks, today, if it passes and I firmly believe it will, so we have secured funding for twelve months. Money will not run out in April, May or June. I'm not going to walk around with a bulletproof budget." So that was the sentence I quoted, just a warning. But I wouldn't be here to tell the secretary -- our time is expensive, both of us -- I will respond to Minister Kupka. I do not think, when I heard Mr Kolovratník here, I heard my colleague Karel Havlíček and spent with him over the budget every year, so I do not think that you have enough money there, and, Minister, through the Vice-President, of course yesterday's morning, the abolition of the road tax - for you the morning, through Madam Vice-President, for you the morning, otherwise, for those concerned, of course, it is good news - but we both know that you will be missing there, and we both know that you have said so, over 4 billion, when it is approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the President will sign it - it is still a bit of a run on the longer track. I'm sure there's no way we're gonna be able to do this or to slow it down, so I don't think it should be a problem for it to pass, but you're not gonna get the money from the revenue side, Minister, through the Vice-President. So it's another foul of this tight budget according to the recipe, how he cooked the dog with the cat. [[15.20 hours]] I've already named here several times in the two months that the budget has been discussed, state insured people who are also painted there, and the law hasn't passed. This is another thing that you actually have 4 billion more there and there is no legislation. Well, the law will pass, over $4 billion will not flow through you, through the Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, and you'll have to look for where you'll get it. And 4 billion, trust me, as former Treasury Secretary, it's not easy. You have less than 6 billion in the government's budget reserve, now that the budget has been approved - I assume the President has promised to sign it, so from 1 April it could be effective - you can finally start drawing on it. Entrepreneurs rejoice to receive covido assistance, social services. Now I have another mayor texting me about the grant programs, that's a few letters. But it doesn't matter. That's what we've been saying. This means that if everything from the government's budget reserve goes to you, there will be nothing left, and it will be needed for Ukraine. So far, it's been approved under this budget, and today about 2.5 billion have been approved, plus humanitarian aid, about 2.8. That's not much. So I think if nothing else, this is the reason for the novel, because it's already a big blow. I'm sure my colleagues will fill me in. And, you know, don't value the budget. Rather, if I may ask you very politely, Minister, through Madam Vice-President, try answering questions where you will take the money, how you will get it into the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, if you can, kindly and politely ask me to answer it, because I really do not know where you will take it in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u18	Thank you. This speech raised two factual points. First Minister Martin Kupka, then Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u19	There is no need to change anything about the Minister of Finance's words. They're going to pay exactly as she said. We will have to, of course, and this has also been said here in relation to the resolution of the Economic Committee, as well as what I have said following the development of tax revenues and other revenues, to address how to finance, if necessary, the investment and maintenance that we intend to do. That's all. And you know very well what it looked like. You're saying $4 billion isn't easy. We realize that $4 billion isn't easy to hear, but it's hard to hear from someone who's handled tens of billions casually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for keeping time. And I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský, but then I say that Vice-President Havlíček is registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u21	Good afternoon. Madam Vice-President, my dear colleagues, my colleagues, my ex-minister of finance, and President Schillerová here reminded some of the quotations from the past. I think it's right here to remind us what's been going on here this morning, but also what's been going on in the last four years. You guys were here this morning for approving a number of amendments to the areas needed, such as social services, transport, but also to some others, health care. I can say here that I consider it important that we support all these areas, but when you were standing behind this counter as Secretary of Finance, we listened to it here every December, and I quote your quote from 15. 12. 2017 when Alena Schillerová, then the new Minister of Finance, said that she would express a major disagreement with the amendments that would reduce expenditure on government debt service. And you here today presented a whole series of amendments that were correct in the expense file. We all want to support social services because they need it, and now we're talking about the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. That's where we'd like to go, but you want to go back to running the state debt. And in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 it didn't matter? In fact, we thought it might work out, and you were very upset about it. And this year, at this point, is that okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, honourable Member. I will just point out, please, to the Members through the President and, on the contrary, to the members of the Government, there is no need. And now Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Minister, I felt that the Minister of Finance was speaking to us now, not the Minister of Transport. You have to fight for that resort like a lion, for every billion that's supposed to be there. We raised the budget from some 80 billion three or four years ago to 131 billion. It wasn't easy for me either, I had to go to the Minister of Finance, I had to go to the Prime Minister, I had to argue about every half a billion, but eventually we always succeeded. And we're going to go over the dry matter here that 8 to 9 billion crowns you managed to pull out of that budget before the Ukrainian crisis, and now we're just talking about another x billion crowns being threatened, which is 5.5 billion crowns going through the road tax. You're defending her here, road tax. In my opinion, the road tax will have no big effect, it will fall only on part of the business sphere, it will not be recognized slowly, but we will miss 5.5 billion in the budget of the SFDI. If we used the 5.5 billion here and used another form of compensation for fuel or energy, it would definitely affect the population or companies better. I'll take your word for it. You said the money coming from the road tax doesn't touch the SFDI budget, which means they'll be replaced by the Treasury. I'd like it to be said this way that this year or next year, SFDI won't be on that bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u24	Thank you and now two factual points, namely President Marek Benda, then Minister of Transport. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u25	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I never comment on budgets because I do not understand them, but what I have just heard from Minister Havlíček here is precisely the desperate misunderstood who are members of the government. The government is a collective body, please. The government is responsible for this country. You never understood it under your rule, you sit there behind your department, even you specifically for two ministries, and you feel like you have to grab something and the Ministry of Finance will freely increase the deficit. It's just not like that. The government is responsible for this country as a whole, and it must act in such a way as not to give up the country in the state in which you have surrendered it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u26	Thank you and now with the de facto Minister of Transport Martin Kupka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u27	Marek Benda said exactly what is crucial in terms of budgeting. A poorly-functioning budget means the biggest trouble for all resorts as a result. And if anyone thinks they're gonna yell something out, they're really gonna get something out there, they're gonna end up takin' the whole economy, and the consequences of that move aren't just gonna be traffic, they're gonna be defense, health, and everything. That doesn't mean anything. The budget, as it's prepared, guarantees all the investments that the previous budget was counting on. This is an essential report for citizens of the Czech Republic, for all who are involved in the construction of transport structures, it must be heard again. The remark is inappropriate because, in the end, in this economic situation, it would lead to a threat to a much larger number of intentions and investments than that step that we have taken wisely, responsibly and economically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u28	Thank you for respecting the time and now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u29	Thank you for the floor. Minister Kupka, through Madam Vice-President, yesterday was our first time in Duel, today is the second time I see it. You have such a style that when you run out of arguments, you attack. I'm not doing it. I could publish here a book of your quotes from different periods, from the previous term of office, when the crisis began. You have called us to add there or onde, there was little everywhere, you have spoken about the twos, the threes regularly, the budgetary determination of taxes, through the Vice-President, Mr Kaňkovský, social services. [[15.30 hours]] From that state debt, I've always added money saved every year to social services, every year. We spared because we did well to manage the government's debt, to service the government's debt, and there were always several billion that went to social services every year, which is why our government ended up with a budget of about 25 billion. Let's look at the graph of what it's going to look like in 2022. Do you know what the biggest problem with this budget is? That there's no so-called medium-term view of him. I have heard a perverse interpretation - to be fair, not from the Minister, I stress this, not from the Minister of Finance - that this is an extraordinary budget at an extraordinary time, so it may not have medium-term prospects. Well, I'm very curious about the medium-term view. I think we'd be surprised if there was a medium-term view. Yesterday's surprise, over 4 billion from SFDI, which will mean, of course, the abolition of the road tax as you announced yesterday, but we were more interested in what the outlook would look like, and not just investment, but renewable resources, because you have not yet changed the government's regulation - so he is not here Minister of Industry and Trade, so it is not worth dealing with now - what he will look like in relation to health, what he will look like in relation to investment, what he will look like in relation to social services, it will then be a reading. And we're going to say where you're going to bring this country, through the Vice-President. Today, a person wrote to me on Facebook - I don't know him: There are two worlds, a world we knew until 2013, and we all know where it led, and a world we knew from 2014 to 2021. But I care what it's gonna look like in our country, because what you've introduced is a disaster, a choking bone. Well, like I said, choking bone, and we don't know what your plans are for the summers of 2023, 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u30	Thank you. The speech raised two factual points, so first the rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Lochman, then Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, rapporteur, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u31	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just want to get this discussion back to a rational level. On the Economic Committee - I'm a rookie there, but I'm used to talking rationally and clearly. Talking about someone being attacked isn't part of it. I'm looking at this part, this government just inherited a huge debt, a huge, huge debt. That's right, that's right. He's got to deal with it. It has brought a budget that is balanced, which is stable, and all we have talked about here is that, in terms of maintenance, the Economic Committee has made recommendations that it would be good if the money had been raised. It's just like me being mayor in town, so I know I could do more during that year, even in maintenance. If it works, it's good. And we, as an economic committee, have adopted this resolution for this, but otherwise, as I said, the budget will be sufficient for the SFDI, and the medium-term outlook needs to be clarified. I spoke to Mr. Kolovratník about what the medium-term outlooks looked like earlier, and be honest now, and I look at you again, they were always another year. We simply need to work with the medium-term outlook, and I agree that we would need more finance here for the years to come, but at the moment we are presenting a budget that is good, and I think the Minister has also defended it very well with the government knowing that the government must function as a whole. So, please, let's bring this discussion back to a rational level, a calm level without emotions, because it's about where, how much, what we fix, what we expose, what we're really going to have, and not about attacking each other here, or saying who's responsible. At this point, we really need to approve this budget, and there are other prints, so that we can also approve other prints, I would like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u32	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský and then another de facto will be Mr Jan Volný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u33	I apologise, fellow Members, only for a very short time, through the Vice-President, to President Schillerová. Ex-minister, when you talk about financing social services, you always have to say it with everything. Yes, in some years of your ministry was added to social services during the year, but it was after, for example, in 2019, the opposition raised several extraordinary meetings here, several extraordinary points when we had to appeal to you to finance those social services, and at that time you did not even put any of your officials and other regional and municipal politicians on the recommendation. So when you say "A," say "B." And otherwise, in the meantime, there were only fighting between you and Ms. Ex-minister Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u34	It's still factual. One has been withdrawn, but Mr Robert králíček is reporting with the de facto Member. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u35	Madam President, colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Kaňkovský. You're right, we responded to the opposition. We have also approved some amendments for you. You didn't approve anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u36	This has brought about again a factual one, namely Mr Ivan Adamec. It's starting to remind me of the shrink of factual remarks. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u37	Yes, thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I had no idea that we were going to start blaming ourselves here, what was it, who, what, how, and like that someone was making up the bones here, and when I came back in the past, I could also have poisonous questions about who had eaten the bone, I would say the whole skeleton of the bones, left it here, but I do not want that. Please, we looked at this very rationally at the Economic Committee. We can also imagine a better budget, more substantial spending for SFDI. On the other hand, we know that sometimes even the best budget at the end is not reached. I also remember that part of the money we used from the budget, which was originally intended for first-class roads and motorways and possibly for other things - and I am not saying that it was completely wrong at the time, but I had a different opinion about it from that point of view - we used for example on the roads of second and third-class regions, which the regions have acknowledged - I am already less as a Member of this state, because I think they should end up in the state transport infrastructure. I must say that this is why we adopted the accompanying resolution, Martin Kolovratník here spoke of it, and I must admit that I also understand transport as a key, backbone issue for the development of our country, but I believe that... yeah, and I will go back to the budgetary projections. You know, they're good when they're good years, right? When there's a crisis, it's done significantly, the estimates, worse, and sometimes I remember, in the cities we said it was just a law, it's an obligation, so we're gonna do it somehow, it's gonna be different anyway. Here we don't know what's going to happen in six months, what's going to happen in Europe, we don't know what the war will look like in Ukraine, we're practically at war, and we're really fighting here, don't be mad at me about how little kids are at this point. It's just the budget, someone's not gonna vote for him, someone's gonna vote for him, I also wish that within a year, we could get the money for him and fill in the sums... [[Time.]] ...which we will miss, but just reality... is that way, let's face it. [[Time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u38	And now Vice-President Karel Havlíček has signed up with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u39	I will no longer prolong this, but thank you, Mr Benda, by means of Madam President, for teaching us how budgets are drawn up, but please remind your ministers. Look, when their department's budget was set, how they presented it in the media - I managed to get it, I managed, I defended the budget. It's a perfectly normal thing that the minister is trying to defend the interests of his department. And I didn't even want to go into the past here. My point was that when Minister Kupka lost his first battle and lost 8 to 9 billion crowns, which would be missing logically even in the coming years, because it would be reflected from that base, so that he would not lose the second battle, and that is the road tax battle, because then it would not be 8 to 9 billion, but it would be 14 billion crowns, and that is, in my opinion, an absolutely crucial amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u40	Thank you. And again factual, President Alena Schillerová. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u41	Thank you. You're right, we'll put it back on topic, rational debate. Mr President of the Economic Committee, yes, through Madam Vice-President, you must have taken this seriously, but you did not approve of the real budget, you did not know at the time that the road tax would be abolished and there would be a hole of over 4 billion. [[15.40 hours]] That was decided by the government yesterday, you couldn't have known that on the Economic Committee. You may have been spying on each other somewhere, I don't know, but maybe we know that from yesterday, and our members of the Economic Committee certainly didn't know that, so the question is simple. We were just politely asking the Minister where he could get another 4.5 billion, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u42	Thank you for keeping time. And one de facto alternates another de facto. Mr. Ivan Adamec now. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u43	Thank you. I do not promise this will be the last time, according to the debate. Well, we also didn't know that the war would start in Ukraine and that the situation would change completely, that the world would just be different. And one more thing I want to say: taxes, the economy is not approved by the government, this is approved by Parliament. That means when we approve, then we solve the problem that there will be a minus 4 to 5 billion crowns. But at this point, it's not. So let us talk about the real budget, because until Parliament approves of abolishing the road tax for the category of private entrepreneurs, businessmen, we have nothing to talk about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u44	Thank you for keeping time. This has so far been the last application for a general debate. So the final check on whether anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. And I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words? The rapporteur is not, either. And since there was nothing to vote on, we will proceed to the debate in detail, which I am opening. And that is where the rapporteur, Ondřej Lochman, has already spoken in a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur, at least the number of the resolution needs to be loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u45	So, folks, I believe we're going back to a rational discussion. I would like to present to you, on the one hand, the resolution of the Economic Committee and, therefore, the resolution which... for this House. We are at Parliament's Press 152 and within the Economic Committee I was empowered to present to you the report that has already been made on the results of this discussion of the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2022, and the resolution of the Economic Committee was that "it is recommended that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House's Press 152, the Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2022 and the medium-term outlook for 2023 and 2024, as presented'. I therefore ask you to support this press, this law and I believe, and we are also prepared for the Economic Committee to deal with you in specific matters of maintenance, investment, and I hope that this will make it more rational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-002-002.u46	Thank you for presenting the motion for a resolution. I wonder if there is still interest in the speech in a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, so I end up having a detailed debate and I'm gonging to call my colleagues and colleagues into the hall. Yes, I'm going to sign you off, but please, in addition to the check-out, is it still necessary to ask if there is an interest in the final words after a detailed debate? So please, everyone log in with your registration cards. And I'm just gonna make sure there's no interest in final words? It's not. We have a clear motion for a resolution, which you have heard, and it means de facto to approve according to the committee's proposal. We're running out of numbers in the hall, and I believe I can begin the vote. Who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. So that's who's in. Now, who's against it? In the vote number 98 169 Members and Members were voted in favour of 105, against 62, so I note that this motion for a resolution has been approved. This concludes the discussion of this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and we can move forward, we can proceed to the following point. That's point number.
