ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, in order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with identification cards and, if necessary, to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence from the hearing: Babiš Andrej for the whole Král - working Václav, Balaš Vladimír within 14 hours - working reasons, Bělor Roman from 12 to 13 - working reasons, Berkovcová Jana, the vlček day - without reason, Bernard Josef, the whole zborovský - working reasons, Feranec Milan, the whole Smetana - medical Karel, Fialová Eva, Petra whole day - Lukáš Pavel - working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav, the whole day - working reasons - Lubomír days - working grounds, Golasowská Miroslav, the whole day - Michal ratiborský, Šimon Šimon, the whole Levko - Jarmila days - working days, Horák Jiří, the whole day - foreign travel, Kasalova David, the whole day - medical reasons - health reasons, Knechtová Lenka, the whole day - working days - working volný - Jan Strýček - Jiří days - working days - working days, Working Milan, Kohajda Opltová from 10 hours - Síla Jan, Kohoutek Tomášík Martin, the Šebelová working Michaela - foreign travel, Kolořík kolovratník, the whole working day - foreign travel, family, family - family - family reasons, Krážka Vrášík. The members of the government apologize: Bartoš Ivan until 11.30 - family reasons, Bek Mikuláš, the whole day - foreign trip, Černochová Jana, the whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan until 10.30 for work reasons, Rakušan Vít until 9.40 and from 12.45 - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - health reasons, Válek Vlastimil until 10.30 - working reasons. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek also apologizes as a result of a doctor's visit from the whole meeting, Roman Bělor also apologizes between 12 and 13 for work reasons, and Mr Richard Brabec also apologizes for the whole hearing for health reasons. Today's meeting should begin with points 75, House press 58, on road transport, law - third reading, paragraph 76, House press 76, on roads, law - third reading. Furthermore, we would continue with paragraph 77, House press 137 - building law, third reading, because we did not discuss it on Wednesday. Then we would eventually continue the points from the block of the Law - first reading. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm asking you if anyone has a proposal to change the program? Please, Chairman Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, colleagues, on the basis of the agreement of the members of the parliamentary clubs, not only the government but also President Schillerová, I would like to read these modifications to the programme. We shall start as the Vice-President has said. There are two third readings, as they are already firmly included. Subsequently, please return, if it is time before 10.30 hours, so we will return to the block of first reading, where we interrupted the discussion of Parliament's press 174, a law on significant market power. And now the proposal is. At 10.30, I would like to apply firmly to point 115, Introduction of the government strategy for managing the Ukrainian crisis, firmly today at 10.30. Furthermore, please support the regulation of the House press 137, the amendment to the Construction Act, the third reading, and this firmly today at 12.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u3	Yes, thank you. Mr Radek Vondráček is also registered here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Greetings to the Minister of Justice, it's gonna be a little close to him. My point is that the story goes on because I've been performing here three times and I've asked to include a point concerning restricting freedom of speech. Yesterday, I was lucky enough to be the first to be drawn in my life at interpelations, and the Prime Minister was present, so I intersected him again in that matter. He didn't answer the questions I asked him. However, there wasn't even room, I really think that's a serious question. And the story continues that ten minutes after the Prime Minister answered me here, and ten minutes after he said that there was no restriction on freedom of speech in the Czech Republic, there was a newspaper article where the Internet service providers themselves, NIC.cz They announced that they no longer like the state where everything is up to them, when the government threw it at them, and that they insisted that some legal measure be taken, or simply that it had some rules that they would no longer be pulling hot potatoes from the fire for the government. That means, even those providers are saying they've had enough. I've been saying for the fifth time that there is a restriction on freedom of speech without any law, without any rules. I asked the Prime Minister here five specific questions yesterday, and when I sum up, the most important one was who discussed and who gave the initiative to individual organizations to turn off problematic disinformation servers that might have absolutely meaningless content for us. However, the method of shutting down the entire server and alerting the lawyers, even those who actually did it, will turn off the entire server, which maybe has some problematic content, but then partly, which is fine - it is also some kind of opinion platform. So we're actually gonna nail a steamroller in the Czech Republic without any legal basis. I was talking here about the fact that they adopted a fast-paced amendment to the law to combat misinformation in Slovakia. I'm very critical of this novel because she's working with the vague definition of harmful content. It gives space to broad administrative discretion. I think they've got it wrong, but at least they've got something. [[9.10 hours]] We are even worse off in Bohemia than the Slovák. We have nothing at all, while in other countries that have extensive experience in combating misinformation, such as Estonia or Lithuania and Latvia, there are always some administrative decisions to defend themselves against in some way judicially, there is some judicial review, there are rules. We don't have anything here. I was blaming the Prime Minister yesterday that the government can't sit through this problem, it can't look like nothing's going on. Things are changing. From Monday, I read that war is turning into a long, wear-out conflict. So if you want to wear out Czech citizens too, that they will get used to the fact that there is a restriction on freedom of speech? One of my questions was - and I interrogated the Minister of Justice, but it did not come up a number - who is working on some legislative changes, which the Ministry is responsible for these changes, who is a partner for us, the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can debate and have some substantive comments on this. This is not an obstruction, it's a thing that really bothers a lot of people in the Czech Republic. There are people who compare it to the previous regime and censorship. I am open to the fact that when there is a war, there is an information war and that, in short, the release of misinformation is part of the war. And if it was an intervention in the sovereignty of the state, I have a certain understanding of it, but for some limited time, but especially under some rules. We don't have any rules here, and most importantly, it doesn't look like the war's gonna end right away. And I don't want to live in a country where freedom of speech is violated. And I saw the Minister's hand, for which I thank him for responding. So who's responsible for this, who's working on it now, and if there's a lawsuit, because the lawsuits are already filed, as far as I know, and it comes to the conclusion that this procedure, which is now underway, is illegal, so who's responsible. Was it the government that discussed it? When did she discuss it? And who encouraged those Internet service providers to shut it down? Because everyone's keeping their hands off it. Who signed it? I'd like to know all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, so you're proposing a new point, restricting freedom of speech without...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u6	I'm sorry, I always say it at the beginning, I forgot. So limiting freedom of speech in the Czech Republic without legal basis, without legal basis. Thank you. A new point and ranked first today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u7	Thank you. Minister Blažek has now signed up with priority rights, Mr Robert králíček will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I was asked by my colleague Vondráček. The first myth that still exists in the media is that a law is being prepared at the Ministry of Justice to regulate something in this area. There's nothing preparing for the Justice Department. This came from some conversation I once said it was necessary to think about, but nothing is going to happen, something like what the people call it, a censorship law or something, nothing like that is going to happen in our country. Secondly, let me just clarify what my colleague Vondráček says. It is not exactly that there is no judicial review, but it exists on the basis of private law, that is, those entities, if they are disabled by a private entity, can defend themselves. This would concern me personally if the courts refused to decide or there were any problems, but there aren't yet, nor do I think, any lawsuits. And the third thing, and I am just saying this in general, is what Mr Vondráček says, that there are some executive authorities in other states that somehow adjust this administrative decision, so it is a call for an executive authority to become a censor. That, too, I do not think that it is fully feasible in our terms, precisely because we have the constitution we have. This means that the situation is very difficult to solve, and there is certainly nothing to restrict freedom of speech, and that the actual development is such that private entities - now I apologize for saying this to the people - sometimes they turn someone off, that is true, but it is not that any minister or ministry decides it, order it and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u9	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights, President Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u10	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, through Madam President, Mr Vondráček. You said it yourself, the interpelations were yesterday, you got the answer. If it develops in any way, use the form of written interpelation. So far, no contradictions have arrived. [[unintelligible]] However, I would also like to draw attention to one level that I would like to recommend, through Madam President, to you. My colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Committee have warned me that you do not meet very much and that they would welcome and be ready for a professional discussion at the level of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. As a member of the subcommittee for non-free speech, I am also prepared for it. You don't have to propose it here every other day for plenary, let's use the committee's expert platform or subcommittee's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr králíček is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u12	Good morning, Madam President, dear government, colleagues. I'm here as Mr. Nacher's opening act, just so you know, he's gonna perform with his evergreen, and that's point number 11, House press 131. I might also think of Mr. Jakob coming here a lot, but I take it in the finals as such an awareness of cyber security, and maybe you'll learn that over the four years, and you'll know what the amendment to the Cyber Security Act is about. It is a thing that - I think even in line with what has been said here in the fight against misinformation - cyber security is also very important. Therefore, I ask you whether we would not place this item number 11, House press 131, as the first item of today's day. Otherwise, a brief remark on Mr. Jakob. Maybe if the government were sending something to the D.A.P., they'd be meeting more often.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now logged in - yes, it is registered with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just don't want it to fit in. I would have responded to Chairman Jakob. Thank you for the educational window of someone who is here in the third term - I am now talking about my colleague Radek Vondráček - and he has been President of the Chamber of Deputies for four years and no one in this room is doubting that he knows the Rules of Procedure and procedural procedures. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I say we'd like to sit down, but we don't have any press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Patrik Nacher is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to say I didn't want to talk, but on the contrary, I'm going to say I wanted to talk, and I want to assign, respectively, to finish the discussion, because she's open at first reading. It's press 41, an amendment to the trade law that deals with short-term accommodation. In particular, this time I would like to call on the TOP 09, STAN, KDU and Pirates who rule in Prague and who consistently say they are dealing with it. They - and you, please, don't deal with it. So let's finish here the press that started here, which broke off, and then, if you don't agree, with the authorisation that municipalities can regulate short-term accommodations in their territory, and I have here for you the brochure that was created by Prague 1, the city section where you are in the government, so let's finish it, and then you can vote against it. But the fact that we're running this place out, I find it unfair to the people in the city center of Prague, so don't be mad at me. So let it go through the second reading, tell them there's a better option on the MMR. Maybe we can figure out some things in this discussion to make it richer. Jakub Michálek sent me something, but so far it seems like we're always making excuses. In the last term of the election, the excuse was that I put it here and it was an attachment to a new trade law that dealt with the umbrella, now it's on its own, you guys might happen to put it here on Friday, by the way, it was Friday, I remember. Then it stopped. And now it's in the program, it's still sinking. [[9.20 hours]] Don't be mad at me, I'm sorry, it's just a material, it's nothing that takes hours. It's gonna take ten, fifteen minutes, it's gonna go into second reading, then it's gonna be rejected, my colleague Michálek is gonna show all the stuff that's been discussed at the MMR, I don't have a problem with it, but at least show those people on the outside that we really want to deal with it, and we want to deal with it before those people come back to us - I mean, tourists. It's a really big problem, the depopulation of the center. I'm doing statistics here, I'm guessing six, I'm gonna pull up the tape screen, and you turned it down six times. So when you say in Prague in the election campaign that you're dealing with, you're dealing with, you're dealing with short-term accommodation, especially in the city center, I'm gonna say it's not true, and I'm gonna show you all the voting stuff where you voted against it. I'm taking another five minutes, last time I gave it 20 minutes, now fifteen, so I'd put it on a fixed time of 12.15, because there's a fixed point at 12.30, we've got 15 minutes. No talking, we'll tell each other what to do, we'll send it to second reading. And then we'll discuss it in detail on the committees. So at 12.15 this point, it's print number 41. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'm asking if anybody else has a proposal to change the agenda of the meeting? I see President Markéta Pekarová Adamová reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel like I'm holding off on the agenda right now. So you need to remember something and just take a light tour this week. If we need a definition of chuff, that's exactly what some colleagues and colleagues are doing here. We didn't discuss anything this Tuesday because we only had a debate here for two and a half hours on the agenda, the next part was a break at the ANO club meeting. And where did we go that day? Nowhere. Yesterday we started the day with two breaks, a total of two hours. Where could we have gone? Nowhere either. If anyone here feels that there's nothing to discuss in the committees, do you want to feel guilty, if it's not just that the standards are not being discussed here? And that instead of focusing on them, we spend a lot of time speaking on this part of the agenda - the agenda of the meeting? And don't you think that's why there's not so much agenda in the committees, for example in the CIP? The opposition window, the thing you've been reacting to very often. In opposition, we experienced, like, an opposition window, like, once every six months, a year. Remind me, fellow Members, if that is the case, through Madam President. I think I'm pretty sure. During this term of the opposition window - three hours are defined in each week of the week of the meeting. Generosity quite large. I think that's really helpful. Isn't it? Isn't it? Really? [[Unintelligible screams from the diaper from the left.]] Then we'll count it, in this case. I feel like some people here are talking a little bit in this case just for the cameras and for the outside ones, but in fact, please feel why we don't get around here to moving things forward. And really please, at least be honest with yourself about this, even though I can see that you're not comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madam President. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to change the agenda of the meeting? It's not like that. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. Let me just sum up - please start with: the first point will be point 75, the House press 58, the law - third reading, the second point 76, the printing 76, the road law - third reading. Next, we would continue by block of laws from first reading. President Výborný proposed to place point 115 firmly on 10.30 and the point is the introduction of a government strategy to manage the Ukrainian crisis. He also proposed that we include paragraph 77, House press 137, building law, firmly at 12.30. Next, we'll vote on the other points. I would now begin the vote on putting point 115 firmly, the presentation of a government strategy for the management of the Ukrainian crisis, today at 10.30. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 155 Members and Members registered, for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal was the inclusion of a fixed number today at 12.30, item 77, House press 137, construction law. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 155 Members and Members signed in for 137, versus 16. The motion was accepted. We would now deal with the vote of Mr Vondráček's proposal, which proposes to include a new point, which is restricting freedom of speech without a legal basis. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 155 Members and Members voted in favour of 69, against 41. The proposal was rejected, so we will not vote on its firm inclusion. Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Králíček, who proposes to include item 11, House press 131, which is the amendment to the Cyber Security Act, as the first item in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 155 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 55, against 27. The motion was denied. And the last proposal is Mr Nacher's proposal, which proposes to include paragraph 46, House press 41, which is an amendment to the trade law, today firmly at 12.15. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 155 Members and Members voted in favour of 68, v. 24. The motion was denied. [[9.30 hours]] We've dealt with all the points proposed to change the agenda, and before we open the first item, I'll read the apology. For health reasons, Minister Anna Hubáčková apologises for the whole day, and Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes between 12th and 19th for reasons of work, Mr Kašník apologizes today for reasons of work and Mrs Barbora Urbanová between 10.30 and 14th until the end of the day due to a doctor's visit. Now I'm opening the first point, and that's it.
