ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 37/2021 Coll., on Register of Real Owners /Departmental Printing 248/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to this bill at first reading. I have the information here that, under the authority of the Government, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura will present the proposal, and I will ask him to take the floor directly. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members. Once again, I apologize to my colleague, Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, who is duly excused from today's meeting, but I will try to represent him in the opening words and during the whole debate or vote. The European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings for incorrect transposition of the directive, in other words, because we have incorrectly implemented the directive. It excluded three points in total from the Czech Republic, namely the definition of the beneficial owner, then the area which concerns companies listed on a regulated market, and then the incorrect implementation of Art. 30 AML Directive concerning the obligation of beneficial owners. The Czech Republic tried to negotiate and explain its position on these three points. In one of those three cases, we were successful, which means this amendment does not concern those listed companies. The law brings two fundamental changes, which are then reflected in several other paragraphs, or bring further technical refinement or formulation changes. The key part concerns the definition of the real owner, when we actually had the definition divided into two parts. This has not been explained to the European Commission, so it is proposed that we use the exact text from the AML directive. The second thing: narrows down the circle of companies and institutions to which an exception was granted in the original Czech implementation. It is again in line with the Commission's requirements. It looks like a formula or a technical dispute, but it has a big financial connection. This means that until we can bring the implementation into line with the European Commission's expectations, we will not get the money from the National Recovery Plan. This is a total of 180 billion, but this year we want to ask for the first payment. In order for the first payment to be received and for projects that are successful and will be successful under the National Recovery Plan, this amendment must be implemented in the Czech legal order by 1 October. This is also the reason why the Government has asked the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this bill in an accelerated manner and to approve it in the first reading under Section 90 (2) of the Act. 2 of our Rules of Procedure. I think that's enough input information. Then I'm definitely ready to respond to some questions, comments. I have a pretty detailed justification for the changes. I must say that this was also discussed by opposition representatives before the law went into government, and that the government as a whole was very detailed about this. So it is not only the material of the Minister of Justice, but we really discussed it so that we could come to those demands to remove the doubts about the correctness of the implementation chosen by the Czech Republic, so as to release the financial resources that are particularly important for investment actions prepared by many applicants from the National Recovery Plan. Thank you and I will ask you, on behalf of the Government, to allow this bill to be discussed and approved in the first reading, so that the tens of billions that we urgently need are not at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u3	I also thank you, and I will now ask the rapporteur to take the floor for the first reading, namely Mr Radek Vondráček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u4	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In the beginning, I must say that I am very sorry that the Minister of Justice does not attend personally, because I have a number of questions in my next speeches, and although the Minister of Finance is a competent rhetoricalist and has detailed reasons, he may not know some things, because he has not been in communication with the European Commission. Now, therefore, only to limit myself to my role as rapporteur. The Ministry of Justice has submitted an amendment to the Act on Recording of Real Owners in a commentary procedure and actually responds to the alleged poor transposition 5. The AML Directive, which means the directive against money laundering, into the Czech legal system. According to the European Commission, the problem was in two areas of the existing transposition, namely - and this is the most important part - in defining the real owner, namely in excess of the elements of the so-called final beneficiary under Section 2 (b). (c) the ESM Act. In its original draft law for determining the beneficial owner, the Czech legislation introduced a criterion of financial benefit that the directive does not provide. We went beyond the European directive. As a so-called final beneficiary, i.e. the beneficial owner, it has identified a person who, directly or indirectly through another person or legal arrangement, can have a substantial part of the total asset benefits generated by the activity or liquidation of a legal person or constituted by the administration or liquidation of a legal arrangement, i.e. only benefit. It was the benefit file. According to the proposed regulation, the existing two-component definition of the beneficial owner based on the terms of the end-user and the end-user and as the beneficial owner is the person who ultimately owns or controls the legal person or legal arrangement in the original on control. Although initially the European Commission's criticisms aimed at the criterion of financial benefit in defining the real owner, the new proposal does not release this criterion in its definition, that is, what bothered the European Commission most and why the so-called inflation was launched, so - the world wonders - was rewritten into that law, although in another place. Therefore, as opposition, we were interested in the very section from when a provision was imposed on us until it was rewritten into that law, but I will now confine myself to reporting. Although the original complaints were directed to the criterion of property benefit, it was only transferred to § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) according to which the corporation is ultimately owned or controlled by any natural person who, directly or indirectly through another person or legal arrangement, has a right to a share in profits, other own resources or a liquidation balance of more than 25 per cent. It is therefore strange that this element of financial benefit was unacceptable to the European Commission first, but, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, it does not mind after bilateral negotiations with the European Commission the criterion of financial benefit, moved two paragraphs further away. The proposal goes beyond the minimum of the directive, which does not deal with the financial benefits of real owners at all. Of course, nothing prevents the Czech Republic from implementing the regulation more strictly, I note that I should be fair, but the hard work of the Ministry of Justice and the existing coalition as a whole at all costs leaves the financial criterion in the definition that the main objective of the transposition of the regulation is to affect the business of Andrej Babiš. If a transposition were to take place according to the literal requirements of the directive, Andrej Babiš would not have been registered as the real owner of the trust fund companies at all. Then, of course, there is the technical part that concerns § 7, where we are roughly in agreement. The exceptions for private legal persons are problematic for the European Commission, especially for those with no relation to public corporations. The existing exemptions for private legal persons, although specific purpose and nature, are hereby abolished. It is therefore proposed to abolish the exemption for district and regional chambers or integrated communities under another law, political parties and political movements, churches and religious societies and other legal entities under the law governing churches and religious societies, trade unions and employers' organisations, hunting communities, community owners of units. The reason for the annulment is the fact that the exemptions for those bodies were assessed by the European Commission as unacceptable. Although the Ministry of Justice continues to believe that it is not in line with the purpose and purpose of the AML directive to identify genuine owners and legal entities, the European Commission's complaints in this respect are being met. I can therefore say briefly for myself that the proposal cannot be accepted. The efforts of the government coalition seem to focus mainly on the disability of the assets of Agrofert and the persons of Andrej Babiš, regardless of the requirements of the directive, in particular the European Commission itself. Even in the commentary procedure, the bodies concerned stated that the proposed legislation is of less quality than the original proposal, contains vague and unclear terms and thus does not contribute to the quality of the legislative environment. The European Commission itself argued to the Ministry of Justice that it had transposed the definition of the beneficial owner using the criterion of financial benefit. The Ministry of Justice therefore adopted the terminology of the directive and only moved the criterion of financial benefit by two paragraphs further. Having discussed with the European Commission, the Ministry of Justice and the Government Coalition, in particular through President Michálek, who is present and will certainly respond, states that this criterion no longer concerns the European Commission. It is therefore a question of why the European Commission suddenly changed its mind and why there was a shift of opinion on its side just after negotiations with the Ministry of Justice. We find ourselves in a difficult situation, when the fulfilment of this condition and the correction of this law is a milestone number 207 for the National Recovery Plan and there is indeed a risk of drawing the amount - if I am not mistaken, the Minister will know exactly - 180 billion Czech crowns. It is necessary that we have a new law in the Collection of Laws by the end of the third quarter of 2022, which means the end of September. We must manage the entire legislative process, including the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the signature of the President and the publication in the Collection of Laws by the end of September. In this situation, therefore, a law is coming to the House, where it is proposed here to be approved in a shortened procedure under the scheme § 90 para. 2, however, of course, no law is perfect and I think that this law is one of those that deserves a proper legislative process and a proper debate on the constitutional-legal committee, or on other committees where we would try to address some shortcomings. I will say only three basic comments from the rapporteur's position that I am interested in. One of them is the opinion of the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, which, as rapporteur, pointed out to me that there is a real substantive material comment on the text of the law, which raises interpretational uncertainty, where there is no clear interpretation and can cause fundamental problems for practice. The legislation here suggests that the application in the amendment article. 1 in points 7 and 11 is always used after the words "regardless" of the word "whether" and further, the word "under which" is deleted from the word "legal." The problem is using the clutch, the word "whether" that is used there, and it is not clear to which part of that provision actually continues to apply. I will read part of the reasoning, the objection: "The original intention of the petitioner was that the link "whether' should apply to legal facts or to the type of fact, namely, to express that it does not matter in the present case whether the control of the decision-making of the institution is based on a legal or factual fact. However, the wording chosen had a great potential to create incomprehensibleness and, ultimately, ambiguity of the provision. In an extreme case, using purely language interpretation, the link "whether" actually caused the provision to be completely rid of the core of its causality and thus to lose meaning, in other words, it sounded that the decisive influence existed regardless of whether the only condition was met, i.e. it was carried out by ad absurdum, the decisive influence would always be given. Although it is clear that such an extreme interpretation cannot be made, since it is clearly not in line with the intended objective, it was not possible in this case to estimate the intention of the petitioner from the wording of the provision, even in the context of the explanatory memorandum. As with the definition of alternatives to legal or factual fact, the "whether' link could bind itself to an alternative definition, for example, of direct or indirect effect on the institution, which appeared to be a more viable interpretation in terms of language. The purpose interpretation was found only from communication with the petitioner. For these reasons, this cannot be a simple legislative technical regulation.' [[13.50 hours]] The point is, then, if we were to do our job as Members as we are to do it, we would have reached a clear legal text after the first reading, possibly by this wording, by leaving out the clutch. However, in Section 90, it is unacceptable for us to adopt such an amendment. So we will either proceed with the first, second, third reading, or in this section 90 we will accept a text which is in no way perfect. It's not the only reminder I have here. Since they were given five days to comment in the commentary procedure - for example, the Czech National Bank, which says here that "The Czech National Bank applies the following comments in the interdepartmental commentary procedure. In view of the considerable complexity of the material and the essential nature of the changes, a narrow and intermediate reminder procedure reduced to 5 working days is not appropriate.' This is all the more so because the proposed changes have a significant impact on the legal obligations of a wide range of people and are substantially amended by the recent amendments adopted. In view of the impact on financial institutions subject to AML rules, the omission of the Czech National Bank from the inter-ministerial commentary procedure can be considered to be an error and a non-compliance procedure with government legislative rules. However, the CNB subsequently appreciated the helpful approach and it only sent the comments later. Great comments were also made by the Czech Bar Association, which states that the proposal uses certain general civil terms contrary to their importance, which is given by the Civil Code, case law, doctrine and legal practice. This applies in particular to the term "ownership'. Furthermore, the proposal uses some concepts without defining their content, which makes it not completely understandable and usable. This applies in particular to the terms "control' and "control'. Here's what I'm gonna do. The subject of ownership under our legislation cannot be a person or entity of the law. The proposal here cannot provide that someone owns a legal person or that a legal person is the subject of ownership. Furthermore, it is not clear what is meant by the words "finally owns". It appears that the proposal distinguishes the direct ownership of the legal person, then the indirect ownership of the legal person and finally the ownership ultimately. What, however, is "indirect" and "finally" meant, and what is the difference between them is no longer possible to read from the proposal. It is also mentioned here that the proposal first uses the term "checking a legal person'. However, it does not define what the term, or the term, "control" means. Even point 9 does not bring clarity. In our legal order, the concept of control is stated in the competition law, but only for the purposes of this law. Therefore, if the proposal seeks to define the concept of the beneficial owner by means of the concept of control, there is no significant component of the content of the term, which could provoke disputes. For both of these comments, I could continue. I apologize to the honourable plenary for discussing this in such detail, but there is no discussion on the committee, so where else do we have to say this, where else is a legitimate legislative debate going to take place on the legislative text than right here? Because let us pour pure wine, if we want to catch the end of September, then we have nothing left but to actually veto the procedure under Section 90, and we must adopt that law. Or you can count on me. Today would be the first reading, so we would cut the deadline for second reading in some real way, a constitutional-legal committee would be convened. He would have discussed all these objections, I haven't read them all yet. The third reading would then take place. In theory, this is possible, but we also respect some timetable for the Chamber of Deputies which I don't suppose is sitting in August. We would have to do all this best by the end of the holidays, so that the Senate can still deal with it, which, of course, I cannot anticipate, would return or not return this legislation, and so whether we could have done it by the end of September. I have more of those comments, which is why I just wanted to focus on the process. The complaint letter came to us in November last year, since then it has been dealt with by the Ministry of Justice. I have never received the complaint letter as rapporteur and as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I don't know the Justice Department's answer either. How is it possible that what bothered the committee first is now completely okay? That's what's going on here, that's what we wanted to discuss. That's why we're missing Minister Blažek, who would just know from his position as Minister of Justice. Why did it basically take a month for this regulation to arrive from the government here in plenary and discuss? It is true - and I confirm what Minister Stanjura said - that the opposition was addressed with the opportunity to comment. Of course, we proposed some compromise solution and it was strictly to translate the text of the directive and not to implement anything extra. This would avoid any interpretational problems. Subsequently, we were labeled blackmailers - specifically me and the president of our club Schillerová - that we are trying to blackmail the coalition by knowing that here we are drawing 180 billion... Well, I, of course, reacted that I was offended. However, let's stick to it... I'll take the floor later, I'll sign up for the debate. I would just like to say from the rapporteur's position that the gros of our discussion today should really be the way in which the Ministry of Justice acted and whether we really have confirmed that the wording is in order and cannot happen to us that, in the future, the use of funds would somehow be at risk. This concludes my news report, let's say a tasting of individual comments, which some subjects have had in the context of a commentary procedure, and I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. So I am now opening up a general debate. First, in the meantime, I'm going to load up the apologies. Mr Vladimír Zlínský apologizes today between 16 and 18 o'clock due to the hearing. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes today from 13.30 to 14.15 for work reasons. There are now two priority rights before duly applied for. Because of the withdrawal, Jakub Michálek is in order, then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, the President of the Jakub Michálek Club may take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I wanted to ask first of all in my introductory words that we respect the fair rules between the opposition and the coalition, because many times here the coalition leaders were urged not to reflect their fundamental personal positions on the issue in the report. That is exactly what has happened here now that the rapporteur has essentially called this technical proposal a matter that has been created purposefully against one particular person. Of course it's not. If we didn't have to deal with this thing, we wouldn't be dealing with it here. We're dealing with it here because the European Commission complained about it. The European Commission has sent its technical comments, which is why this bill is presented here, which is trying to accommodate the European Commission. I don't really care if we agree whether or not there can be personal comments in the news report, but I'm going to ask, in particular, colleagues from the ANO movement, if they want to master someone here, they have to start with each other, otherwise it doesn't seem credible. Now I'm going to respond in a matter of fact to what was said here. In the first note, what is the correct level of implementation, whether it can or cannot go beyond implementation, whether it is correct, wrong. Article 2 (1) (a) Whereas: 6 The fifth directive against money laundering states that the real owner - now I'm sorry, the quote will be a little longer, it's easy to lose, but I'm going to try to poke out the most important thing - the real owner is a natural person or person who ultimately owns or controls a client, or a natural person or a natural person on whose behalf a transaction or activity is carried out, which includes at least - and now there is such a long list. So it's really a minimum list, a minimum standard. In the case of trust funds, they are all persons such as the founder, the trust administrator and so on, so in the case of the trust fund - it does not fall into any way. [[14.00 hours]] It is then explicitly stated that the characteristics of such ownership are different, the ownership of more than 25 per cent, but that ownership or control can also be established by other means, and it is the responsibility of the Member States to define their own way in which they want to apply the other means of ownership, to what extent they want them to be part of this definition. And we, as a sovereign state, have said that within this definition we are going in a more transparent way and that we will not only have those entities that are owned on the basis of a share or on the basis of another fact that is mentioned in the directive, but also those who take profits from it. Those who take the profits from that legal person can and should be, according to our national regulation, the real owners, and that is something that was, and something that will be after the approval of this bill. With regard to the technical, legislative and technical comments, there is a passage that begins with the words "whether and on what basis" which concerns whether the control is based on a particular legal fact and in that case the specific legal fact should also be mentioned. It seems pretty understandable from the text of the law. As to the objection that you cannot own a person, it is true that a person is not a matter under our private law. On the other hand, we are moving here on the issue of the implementation of European law. We have a lot of states here, every state of the European Union has a different concept of ownership. The European Union must bridge these differences by seeking common characteristics. And one of these is the definition of "own" or "control." The term is defined in accordance with the directive and it needs to be understood as defined in our law and in the directive, and it is not, in my view, entirely possible to identify it with the concept of ownership under private law. After all, the term is defined from the point of view of money laundering, so there is no conflict. But if we want to be part of a large whole, such as the European Union, we must also accept the things that are related to this, including the introduction of a single terminology in this legal area in terms of transparency of relations between trading corporations. So much for the substantive reservations raised in the rapporteur's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Your performance brought up one point of fact. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have taken over the management of the meeting. The general debate is open, so I will ask Mr Radek Vondráček's factual comment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. I'm very brief. I've really been trying to narrow myself down to the news section. If I failed from your point of view in this effort, I'm sorry. I had much more to say, but to make it clear why we were in a situation where we were forced to proceed under § 90, so I had to pronounce the name - in my opinion - because we are really on the verge of adopting an important milestone. And why it took so long, why the letter came in November, and now it came down to why it only took a month to bring it here from the Office of the Government, and it's probably got some reason why the discussion took so long. Otherwise, in general, the ANO movement is not interested in any specific provision of this law. The law, it's a directive against money laundering. This is against corruption, it is against preventing the financing of terrorism, it is against the need to fund political movements with proceeds from crime. That's not the problem with our movement at the moment, I'm just reminding you. But now I am clearly limiting ourselves to having at least some sensible text, and unfortunately, thanks to the regime in which we are moving, we cannot accept any amendment. Let's at least say here what we see in the shortcomings of the legal text. I tried to put it as objective as possible, I guess I didn't quite make it, I'm sorry again. Now I will respond specifically and give specific comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u9	Thank you so much for keeping time. The Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, is now registered with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. First of all, we inherited the problem. Now I don't know exactly when it came in November, you said in November, I don't know if it was the first or the 30th. We were appointed on 17 December 2021. According to information received by the government, since then the Ministry of Justice has been communicating quite strongly with the European Commission. I am pleased that the last words of the rapporteur have been heard to stress the importance of such a regulation. In this we certainly agree that anti-money laundering, which means money laundering, I think that this is a serious problem that we should be dealing with alone or in cooperation with our partners within the European Union. So we are all aware of the importance of this issue and the importance of addressing this issue. The question of whether and why the European Commission, or those who negotiated for it, has changed its opinion is difficult to assess. However, here is quite detailed in the explanatory report described the process that we have managed to defend and what we have not. And it wasn't that the new government came in and automatically said, "Everything is wrong, you're right about everything - they tried to explain it quite patiently, both our definition of the real owner and the exceptions. It's quite detailed there. Well, sometimes you just don't succeed in explaining and negotiating. In this case, whoever pays gives the rules. I think it's perfectly understandable. If we give the subsidy as a state or a county or a city, they also set the rules because it is money from his budget. So in this case, let's take it that RRF money, which means national recovery plans, is European money, and the one that pays set the rules. Among other things, one of the many conditions that the Czech Republic must meet is the correct implementation of 5. AML guidelines. The question is, why have we failed, and why have many other states succeeded? I don't want to find an answer to her right now, so I don't want to prolong the debate, but that's crucial. If the implementation had gone well for the first time, we wouldn't have gone back to it and we wouldn't have fought again. I did not actually understand, I apologise to the rapporteur, if he could tell us something humane and Czech, what is at the heart of the dispute, because if you have the idea that what he quoted from the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies is not understandable, then it is not. I've heard four times that "whether" is like this or that, but I haven't heard that sentence once so I can judge it. However, if we want to find an answer again, I think we can look into the explanatory note, from which I understood it quite well as the one who is not a lawyer, but who is to follow such a law or to approve it. And maybe I could quote it, it's half a page, but I think it's worth putting the debate back on that material, factual level: "A fundamental change" - and that's the article. 3 "the fundamental change consists in the introduction of a uniform material characteristic of the beneficial owner'. I'm just gonna say for the interested party... The 30th side of the bill as a whole, so you know where I'm quoting from. "This consists in the fact that the beneficial owner owns or controls a legal person or legal arrangement. Both terms stand not clearly next to each other, they are not necessarily two separate characteristics, but they are a qualitative description of the position of the material real owner." It is not that the current dualistic concept - that is what the European Commission has accused us of - is wrong in its basis, but that other more detailed categorization of material real owners should not be relevant. If someone is a real owner, it is a separate and sufficient quality, which is no longer formally divided. Although this is not explicitly stated in the legislation or in the AML Directive, it is possible to talk about some unexpressed legal presumption according to which anyone owns, it is true that he controls, and vice versa, who controls, it is true that he owns. Well, you can nod your head all you want, I think it's pretty understandable. Each material beneficial owner, within the meaning of the proposal, always owns or controls, without distinguishing between whether it specifically owns, controls or both. Both ownership and control have their content, but it no longer affects the position of the beneficial owner. [[14.10 hours]] The concepts of ownership, ownership and control should be interpreted extensively. They cannot be attributed only to the meaning that is attributed to them in the ordinary legal order. The "ownership" - to quote precisely - does not refer exclusively to the concept of ownership within the meaning of Law No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended. Similarly, supervision does not mean supervision in the sense of the monitoring or supervision of a legal person.' I think it's a key phrase. The concepts should be regarded in lay terms as a kind of rule of a legal person or a legal arrangement achieving a specified intensity. I think every citizen understands who owns the company, and whoever controls it is the owner, and he's not the one occupying the supervisory board. I think it's perfectly clear, and we don't have to look for anything surprising or new. How come all the other states are okay with this, and there's such a legal problem? We're smarter than everyone else? The rapporteur was right to say that the AML directive sets a minimum common basis for this. This means that if the criticisms point to this being beyond the scope, it is a relevant political debate, which does not point to whether the implementation is good or correct. We agree on this, I think it's quite detailed and fairly described here in the explanatory statement. We are talking about the minimum basis that the European Commission is assessing whether the implementation was correct or incorrect. And now that we have critics from the former government, how is it that you have implemented this in a way that the European Commission is in conflict? What's the problem? You mean he said in Brussels: Attention, attention, there is one whose name the rapporteur had to say here, so that's why we won't approve? Even you can't believe that. So maybe we could start the debate, at least with the opposition, on their side of the field. What did they do wrong? Nothing. They didn't do anything wrong, but we still have 180 billion crowns blocked. It doesn't add up, these sentences. I understand that reservations about narrowing down those entities that have an exception are not essential, that it is probably not a problem, if I have understood correctly the rapporteur's speech. Maybe the second part of the debate will come up with reservations, but I haven't noticed it yet, so we're having this whole debate about whether we have a well-defined real owner. Did I get that right? And the Justice Department copied the text of the directive. What's wrong with that, I'm kind of curious. It's written there, it's a quote, it's a directive, it's a assurance that this is the way it's consulted with the Commission, it's not a problem. So if I copy the directive that we implement into the law, it could be wrong? That's the key question. If that's a good thing, then I don't understand the objections. If this is wrong, then let us protest the directive as such. Where was the Czech Government at the time of negotiations? I don't know, of course, which government negotiated it, I don't remember, I didn't find out if it was Sobotkův's government or Andrej Babiš's first government. I really don't know. But we took over the text from the directive, and yet it's being criticized. Then it doesn't make sense. If we say the directive is good, and if I copy it, it's wrong, then you can't convince me it's a logical procedure. If you think that the directive is wrong too, I, of course, am not able to judge, so I ask why we did not apply the objections at the time of the directive when it is wrong. I think these are legitimate questions, but I would ask the rapporteur - and it is a request - whether he could describe to us what the problem is, without justification, whether or not the link "whether" is fulfilling the role. What is the content of this dispute so that we who are not lawyers can understand it and be able to explain it when voters ask questions about what you were arguing with the opposition, what the key conflict was. I just don't see him there. If you describe this well, it is possible that the conflict is clear and that then we will simply have different political views, but so far it was simply not clear from those statements except that the ANO movement paranoidally believes that we are adopting laws here because of Andrej Babiš. Did you hear that - Jesus Christ - in the speech of the rapporteur? I heard it, the name, three times. He's not in the explanatory report once.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Another person who is registered with priority rights - we are in the general debate - is the rapporteur Radek Vondráček, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I already told the minister I was sorry, I wasn't taking notes, maybe I'd skip something. I totally agree with you that we are talking about ownership and ownership, so we agree. The point is that the Czech Republic goes beyond that. We do not just rewrite the directive, because it was originally written in the directive - and that is what bothered the European Commission - that it is a final recipient or a person with a final influence. That's what bothered them. They hated the benefit file. When you benefit from something, it doesn't belong to you, but you have a share of it, which is two different things and can be.... [[unintelligible]] So we crossed it off, and instead it says, "Finally, he owns or controls a legal person or a legal arrangement." The European Commission is fine with it. However, in Section 4, this sentence is being divorced here and it already states: "It has a right to a share of profits in other own resources or a liquidation balance of more than 25 per cent.' So instead of Section 2, we put it in Section 4, there's the benefit component again, and after long discussions with the European Commission, it doesn't matter. And we just wanted to know exactly what they were accusing us of in that letter, so why the letter couldn't be public, what the problem was there, why the reaction couldn't be public. And we were informed at those negotiations that took place with the opposition that there was perhaps a personal meeting, that someone from the European Commission had arrived here and that he had been dealt with at a personal level. We'd just like to know what they said and why. Basically, what we're trying to do is clear it up and adopt some relatively good law. Here again, it looks like we're more European than Brussels again, and we're putting back the benefit file that we've already been factored in once again. That's a), if I get the point. What bothers me here and what is beautifully read in the comments of the Czech National Bank or the Supreme Court, I will read to you: "The Czech National Bank considers the European Commission's procedure in this matter to be non-standard and undesirable." So here I am reminding you that it really is not quite normal for the state to do this quickly infringement, when the state will adopt some legislation that is above the basic one, because the directive really is only the minimum, and the Member States can accept something else, but the Commission has not only pointed it out to us here, but it has made it a milestone to which considerable funds are attached. And as the Minister of Finance said, when someone pays, it's his rules. So let us realise that we will get some money from the European Commission, but we should also listen. And I will now read to you what did not please the Czech National Bank: "The Czech Republic is in a situation where, according to the petitioner, there is a non-compliance procedure, and the matter is not yet presented to the Court for the final assessment whether the Czech Republic has violated the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union a late or incorrect transposition of the directive, without being able to explain adequately the rules of national law with the EC, the European Commission, and, in the event of a persistent dispute or any other interpretation of the rules of the directive to leave the interpretation to the European Court of Justice, it is forced to proceed to the legal interpretation of the European Commission in the light of the European Court of Justice, with a view to ensuring the drawing up of funds under the National Recovery Plan and to implement the enforced and unwarranted changes to the law, which are and will probably be incomprehensible. It can be concluded that the amendment to the law is less clear than the existing law and is rather directed against the objective pursued by the directive. The literal transcription of the directive, regardless of the Czech legal environment and terminology, is not appropriate. In this regard, the Czech National Bank recommends at least raising reservations with regard to the European Commission that the Czech Republic is making changes to the law under pressure. Furthermore, it is noted that the European Commission is in fact a person of competence of the European Court of Justice when it enforces the regulation of a valid domestic law in its legal opinion on the content of this domestic law without having a relevant judicial decision. In fact, however, the European Commission does not have such competence and it is only up to the European Court of Justice to carry out such a review where appropriate. In fact, the executives are intervening within the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities.' End of the Czech National Bank quote. [[14.20 hours]] Now, if I quickly find it, the Supreme Court's position, just a complete conclusion: "With regard to the Union's foundations for adjusting the record of the beneficial owners, I will pass on the question of whether the Institute of Public Recording of Real Owners, Legal Persons and the legal arrangement is an eligible tool for achieving the directive of the objective pursued. Even after this forced change, the status of the beneficial owner will only create a sufficient share of its own resources without the natural person being able to control the target person or legal arrangement. The legal criterion of the final beneficiary so far.' The point is that here we come up with some formal criterion, if you have a share in profit somewhere, you are the real owner without examining the material side that there is some active possibility of controlling the activities of a legal person. But I would like to read you the last sentence: "Although I consider the Institute of Recording of Real Owners to be very problematic, I believe that the existing wording of the law better describes the objectives pursued by the Union legislature. The proposed amendment does not bring any shift beyond the greater ambiguities and extension of the impact on others without reasonable reasons." That means, here we are, facing a situation where the new regulation is less clear than the original one when the comments were not settled, the individual institutions had 5 days to do so. And now I'm standing here in front of you as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and I'm not even able to discuss this on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And these are really highly technical questions. I don't blame the minister who asked me to explain. I've read it four times. What's the vague interpretation? I would just like to point out that the Ministry of Justice has, in fact, given the truth to the legislation here that it has written that it has indeed - and even here it states that the error was made in the preparation of the LRV opinion, a purely formal comment was made by a member of the LRV. However, the revised version was not accidentally translated into § 5a para. 3 in the proposed text, which thus still contains the linguistically incorrect link "to judge the influence on" - this is to § 5, beware, it is not the § 1, that is § 4. But in § 4 they also made it clear to each other, there was some e-mail correspondence and a phone agreement. The bottom line is, if the clutch "whether" and "legal reality" had gone away, it would've made more sense, it would've just been good, and it wouldn't have raised doubts. But we're not gonna fix it here in our driving. Whether I've been able to explain it or am I ready to come forward one more time and take a word at a time. I think we've got some room for that so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. Your speech raised one point of fact, Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. So at this point, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u14	So if I understand this correctly - without irony - the President of the Constitutional and Legal Committee is concerned that, although we are going to change this, the European Commission's reservation will take time and we will not get to the money. If that's how I understood it. That's what I think needs to be appreciated, such a concern. However, the petitioners assure us that this is not the case. But I'm just, it's just not like you said the executives are reaching into our legislation. [[unintelligible]] We're free to choose. We're free to choose! That's why I said who pays gives the rules. And neither one of us has to apply for any grant, and everyone is assessing whether the rules of the grant are advantageous to him or not, and whether the risk, such as return, takes place or not. This is true of Czech subsidies as European ones. So, yes, you are right in that or that opinion that it can be decided by the European Court of Justice, but unfortunately, there is a time window where subsidies can be drawn. And we need to consider two risks. One: we stand on our own, we may be right, and it will take us a while to get somebody to tell us the truth, and in the meantime, the time can run out for us to draw the money. And I can vividly imagine what the opposition would say at the moment when we went this way and didn't have time to spend 180 billion. That's not a negligible amount. If it was 180 million, given the size of the state budget, let's sue when we think we have it right. And I say, it wasn't a dispute, we tried to honestly explain our national regulation and national implementation. But we can choose to sue each other. None of us know when this is gonna end, and none of us knows if we're gonna be able to exhaust it. We have chosen the path of adapting ourselves to the rules to bring the 180 billion investment money here. Maybe someone will criticize for it, that's legitimate, but given that there's a limited draw from the National Recovery Plan, we're at risk of not exhausting this money. [[Prime Minister, time.]] I apologize for over-the-counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Another with a factual note is registered by Radek Vondráček. Before coming to the speaker's desk, I would like to read the apologies that I have received here, and this is Mrs Marie Pošarová from today's meeting between 16 and 17.30 for working reasons, and then Mr Marek Výborný apologizes for today's 30th meeting for working reasons, and at the same time she apologises from the 31st meeting, from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for working reasons. And now, therefore, Mr Radek Vondráček's factual comment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, I'll be brief. Of course, we agree relatively, 180 billion is a huge amount, and no constructive opposition will jeopardize that by wanting to discuss at all costs, that there is probably a legislatively unclear text and that there may be a problem in interpretation. But let's have some pure wine, that we might as well be remodeling within a year, because that practice will bring some controversy. And let's also say, frankly, that the House of Deputies has come to the House of Deputies, which normally, with what I know, deserved to receive a motion to return the petitioner to work, to be recast. And he's gonna walk away from us because there's nothing we can do about it because of the regime you put it in. And I resent the coalition, and I don't think it's even a good credit to this Chamber of Deputies. These negotiations have really been going on since the beginning of the year, and we have July. It can be traced in the media, so we were accused with Mrs Schillerová, that we were blackmailers, that we were told at the time that this had to be accepted by the end of June. That was the first thesis of the Justice Department that it had to be done by 30. 6. Then they fixed it, that when the first request for drawdown was sent, which must be by the end of September. Then why did it take so long? And it's July! If the law had been passed in April, we would have done three readings in some reasonable way, and you and we would have been satisfied. Because I'm stressing again, this is the directive against money laundering, this is simply not the subject of how we are moving on, the subject of Andrej Babiš. I apologize once again for saying that in the news report, and that's the only reason I can think of why this has been handled in such a way and not openly how it's supposed to be handled. So now we're dealing with something that can't be fixed anymore, and it's important that it's in the log. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Once again, the Minister of Finance is reporting in de facto. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u18	The rapporteur lent me the paper with the incriminating text on it. But there's a line to what the rapporteur said. So the part that she criticizes and says she shouldn't be there in Section 4, I did, but that's where your government put it. [[unintelligible]] That's right, that was last term. So to say that the paragraph that you approved when you had a majority here goes against Babiš, so you put it there yourself against your chairman, or the argument doesn't apply. One or the other, because you had a majority, and it's logical that after all these, we know it from both sides, after all the debate, the arguments for and against, the majority ultimately decides, and you had a majority here. And if you're saying that the section was just moving - you put it there. So either you put it there yourself against Babiš, or it's not against him. I apologize for not emphasizing Prime Minister Babiš the way I should. I will try to read you the paragraph and then the change, and who among us feels it is a fundamental problem - so I will not: "The decisive influence on the administration of the rule of law is applied by whoever, at his own discretion, whether and on what basis the legal fact can directly or indirectly through another person or legal arrangement promote his will to achieve that the decision-making of the trustee corresponds to his will. " No. Yes. And the upgrade cuts off about five words. I will read you the paragraph again without the five words: "The decisive influence on the administration of the legal arrangement is applied by anyone who, at his own discretion, is able, on the basis of legal fact, to make a comma, directly or indirectly, through another person or legal arrangement, to make the decision of the trust administrator consistent with his will. " [[14.30 hours]] And I would like to ask you if you understand the sentence in Czech, the first two sentences that are not Czech to me at all. Regardless, a comma, based on legal fact, a comma, can directly or indirectly through... Regardless, comma, based on legal fact. [[Prime Minister, time.]] It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u19	You've crossed the line, I'm sorry, thank you for the heads-up. The next person to come forward with a point of fact is Radek Vondráček. Of course, yes, you're logged in. I would like to point out that both the rapporteur and the finance minister can, of course, use their rights with priority rights, so Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u20	I'm already out of line, I'm showing the minister some face-to-face, which would hold you back too much. Even a word can completely change the legislative text and change the meaning of the law, even one letter if you write it wrong can change the meaning of the word. That is precisely what we could do on the grounds of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I just want to remind the Minister that we just didn't have a majority. We were a minority government, and there were situations like this, those were the issues of registering real owners, conflict of interest, and so on, when we simply didn't have the support of a coalition partner. This is the result. That means a law was adopted by a minority government, which means, yes, it was during our coalition government, however minority, and this is one of the consequences when we simply achieved the maximum possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for your time, and I remind you that we are at the moment in the general debate, where Mrs Helena Válková is currently duly registered. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u22	Yes, thank you. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, both my two previous speakers, the Minister and the rapporteur, have partially worked off, so I will only try to say the essential things and go from the legislative incomparability and shortcomings to why we are actually debating here. One, I hope, is the only political point on my part to begin with. In 2013, I joined the academic - safe parentheses - policy area precisely because I wanted to contribute to effective anti-corruption legislation. This law should be one of those legislations and, in my opinion, it should be one of them. What really did not go well with the last government, through you, Madam Vice-President, Minister, is that the wording was not well established in terms of our national legislation at the time. However, in my view, which I have read as supported by the position of the Supreme Court, the current regulation is better than the one which further questions the interpretation that will have to be made by applying practice, and precisely because -and I am not convinced by the explanation of my colleague, through you, Madam Vice-President, Jakub Michálek, that it is still a transcript of European legislation that we must accept, because we are part of a larger community - but no sovereign national EU member leaves everything to be compared for the sake of the general, I think in this sense to the European, and somehow violently - that has been said here - our national legislation, allow me to say it unfairly, we will say it and wait for the interpretation, of our Supreme Courts, or our European Court. I don't think I'm going to have any strong argument here that I would oppose the Minister of Finance that if it outweighs the legal point of view that this is not a perfect amendment, so that we extend the process and jeopardize the drawing of CZK 180 billion. It is quite clear to me that he is absolutely right about this, say, or it is a very pragmatic solution, and we will therefore have to clench our teeth and probably also vote in favour of the negotiations and approval under the scheme § 90. But I think it is perfectly legitimate for a microphone to say that we have absolutely nothing to be proud of, that we are merely, to say, slavishly copied the European directive, which does not even count on us literally taking over its wording. We have not been able to come up with any better ideas, and I think that in the legislative process, if we had a second reading, certainly not just me, but also a number of opposition, pardon, coalition Members, I can name one of them - he usually has very good proposals for you, but he is not here - Dr Haas would certainly make an amendment that would improve the legislative text. And I personally think that to accept something without commenting on it, as ČAK also points out in his opinion, when we have established, when we have certain traditionally used judicated and applied concepts that we use for certain specific content, such as control of ownership, control, and we replace them with European terms, which at least are vague for us in the Czech Republic, and shouldn't we lead to this debate in the Chamber of Deputies, so I really wonder what we are here for? Are we going to say, like, in the '90s, that the light bulbs have to be shut down for a while, the property has to be redistributed, and then the right to work again? So I was always hoping that this sad chapter was over long ago. So, as far as specific comments are concerned, I think the rapporteur has spoken about them and concerns an unfortunate text which, unlike the Minister, by your means, Madam Vice-President, is not clear to me, nor to me as a lawyer, at first reading. The fact is, I understood it at third reading, and I want to see how it's explained by those who don't have a law school. So if we want laws like this, so be it. I went to the rapporteur myself just before the hearing, and I said, "I don't think there's anything to say here. However, if I could, I am voting against the 90th to put it in the right wording or acceptable. I was told that this might not be possible, given the 180 billion at risk. But, Minister, let us at least have the opportunity to discuss this as lawyers. It will certainly also be a good prevention for us not to adopt such laws in the future. I am also personally sorry for the absence of the Minister of Justice, because I assume that even in his rhetorical skills he would explain to us better than you why he did not negotiate with the European Commission, or his people, a text which would meet both their requirements and our national legislation and would not inspire us in advance in our key partners, which certainly the Czech Bar Association and the Supreme Court are, or should be, because they will apply it, doubts. There's nothing I can do about it. I'm considering for myself whether for the 90th - because the moment I put my voice in jeopardy - I'm going to raise my hand, because I don't think I'd like to explain the 180 billion to our media, because I'm one pickup or no pickup at risk. But if I see that you have a majority, and so there will be no threat, I will not vote symbolically for it, or I will abstain because the proposal for this amendment is really good from a legislative technical point of view, but it is not an interpretational one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, too, Madame. Again, I recall that we are in the general debate of the law on registering real owners, and who else is duly registered is Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Madam President, dear colleagues, colleagues, dear government. The aim of the bill is to comply as quickly as possible with the European Commission's request to amend the Act on Registering Real Owners so that doubts about the correct transposition of the relevant legislation of the European Union in the legal order of the Czech Republic cannot persist. The adoption of the bill is conditional on drawing funds from the National Recovery Plan, which is mentioned CZK 180 billion. We should have avoided confusion and interpretational inaccuracies, which was not quite the case based on the previous discussion. [[14.40 hours]] However, the SPD will be positive due to STAN's circumstances, the last one we can see at Prague City Hall. Our movement generally supports the rebuttal of politicians and as much transparency as possible. We will hope that, even after any amendments that are likely to come to this law in the future, transparency will take place. So although not with enthusiasm, even the SPD will support the negotiation of the law in Section 90. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u25	Thank you very much. At this point, I see no one reporting to the general debate. Madam President of the ANO Group of Parliament - President Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will speak for the club of the ANO movement. We have witnessed a rather detailed debate and debate here. It is a pity that we do not have the Minister of Justice here, but my admiration for the Minister of Finance, who is presenting the Public Health Insurance Act, is the law on the record of the real owners, so I was right to say recently that you are the most influential member in the government. It's obvious, and you convince us every day. Well, back to the point. We have heard comments from the Czech Bar Association, from the Supreme Court, from the Czech National Bank. We've seen it all, I won't escalate the debate any more. I mean, the YES movement will support the approval and adoption of this law, support it in proceedings under Section 90 regardless of anything and whether it is beyond whether or not the problems are there. [[Noise in the hall.]] They are certainly there, and I will also take the view of my more erudite colleague in this area, Professor Válková's Member, but what is important is that the YES movement will not be involved in endangering the implementation of the National Recovery Plan of 180 billion that our government has advocated. So I say on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, we will support it and support the proceedings under Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask for peace in the Chamber. I've already begun to make sure everyone knows we're coming to the vote most likely. We are still in the general debate. I'm going to ask at this point because no one's registered in writing anymore, and I'm going to ask if anyone's reporting from place to place to the general debate? I look around, I see no one, so the general debate is over. Will I ask the Minister of Finance? He does not want the final word, nor does the rapporteur. I note that I have therefore received no objection from two Members' clubs or 50 Members, so at this point we will now decide, in accordance with Section 90 (5) - once again, to continue the discussion of this proposal. I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 248 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. And thank you. Voting number three, 152 Members were enrolled, 142 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained from 10. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. For this reason, I am now taking the liberty of initiating a detailed debate. I'm gonna ask if anyone's checking in? The rapporteur. So I'm gonna ask the rapporteur to... Mr. Radek Vondráček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Following the initiative of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the Parliamentary Press 248, I propose subsequent legislative technical amendments, which are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - and I will therefore have to read the whole thing: Government bill amending Act No. 37/2021 Coll., on the registration of beneficial owners, is amended as follows: Point 11 shall be replaced by the words "to obtain that' and at the end of the proposed text of Section 5a (1). 3 the words "corresponds to his will " will be added. Justification: It is proposed to harmonise the wording governing the subject-matter of this provision, thereby influencing the decision-making of the competent authorities, while the proposed paragraph of Section 5a para. 2 for this adjustment, it uses the words "to obtain that the decision of the statutory body or other management body corresponds to its will'. Amendment to § 5a para. 3 is different and uses other words, it uses "to enforce its will to decide the trust administrator." Since the required condition which the petitioner wishes to express in the words in question is identical in the case of both provisions, it is only different that § 5a para. 3 refers to the legal arrangement and therefore speaks directly of the trustee, so it does not make sense that the legislature always chooses a different wording to describe the identical legal consequences in the given cases. It should also be pointed out that the wording chosen in the present § 5a para. 3 is not the right language, for the will is not for decision making, but for decision making. It can also be argued that the description of the legal status of the consequences in § 5a para. The decision of the competent authorities corresponds to the will of the person having decisive influence. On the other hand, in the case of the existing proposed text, § 5 para. 3 is not formally and linguistically described by the result, but only by the process leading to the result. The difference is that, while § 5a para. 2 is clearly determined that the decision corresponds to the will of the person with decisive influence, so in § 5a para. 3 is now provided for the possibility for a person with a decisive influence of his will to enforce the decision-making process of the trustee. As a result, the proposed wording in § 5a para. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 as the first appointed determines the final situation, while the second appointed specific process leading to the same result. Although it is clear that the aim of the petitioner was to describe the situation which is materially consistent in both paragraphs, the choice of different formulas can be misleading. The purpose of this adjustment is to guarantee a clear interpretation of the provisions in question. The reminder was processed after prior agreement with the translator of the article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Point 12, after the words "territory of self-governing" the comma is deleted. In that provision, it is within the scope of points (a) and (b) of the merger ratio, since it is a simple list of persons without the beneficial owner within the proposed point (a), there is no reason for a comma to be in front of the downstream link "a'. The reminder has been drawn up after agreement with the petitioner.' That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-001-001.u29	I thank you, and at this point I note that by deciding and agreeing in the first reading, amendments cannot be tabled, a correction of the date of effectiveness or legislative technical, grammatical, written or print errors can be proposed. So at this point, I consider this proposal in a detailed debate to be legislative technical, grammatical or other errors. I'm going to ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? I look around the O.R., I don't see anyone, so I end up having a detailed debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? I'll ask the plaintiff, Mr. Finance Minister, if there's any interest in the final word? The rapporteur, if there's any interest in the final word? Mr rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? No, thank you. So now we will vote on the proposals tabled. [[14.50 hours]] First, we will proceed to the vote that Mr Radek Vondráček read in a detailed debate on legislative technical, grammatical and other errors he has read here. We all know what we're going to vote on right now. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you. Voting number 4, registered by 151 Members, 143 was in favour, no one opposed, 8 abstained. The motion was accepted. This means that we will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I would like to make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 37/2021 Coll., on the registration of beneficial owners, according to the Chamber of Press 248, as well as in the wording of the approved modifications that have been made here." Do we all know what we're going to vote on? Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you. Voting number 5, 153 Members signed in for 145, no one opposed, 8 abstained. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done talking. I thank the appellant to the Minister of Finance, I thank the rapporteur. Now, according to the approved program, we get to point number
