ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 45th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first check you all out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their non-Participation: Babiš Andrej the whole day - working reasons, Bačíková Jana the whole day - working reasons, Balaštíková Margita the whole day - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav from 9 to 11.30 - working reasons, Bauer Jan the whole day - working reasons, Bělor Roman from 9 to 10.30 - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej the whole day - foreign travel, Berki Jan the whole day - foreign travel, Bernard Josef the whole day - working reasons, Brázdil Milan the whole day - medical reasons, Burešš Jan full working day - working day - Vondrák day - working day - working Fialová - Jiří day - Teleky Róbert - working day - working day - David day - Stržínek Robert - Horák day - working day - working day, Kohoutek Tomáš full working day - Marie Zuna - Michal days, Kolář Ondřej from 9.15 to 10 working days - working reasons, Kolovratník Martin Wenzl Renáta day - working day - Šebelová Michaela, Kubík Jana whole working day - working day - working day - working days - working days, Lochman Ondřej whole working day - zborovský Miroslav, Nacher Štefanová Iveta David day - working day - working day - working day, Olšáková Eliška from 15.30 - working Jílková - Ivo Jermanová - medical reasons, Peštová Berenika whole day - medical Zajíčková, Post-work day, tesařík-work week Jerná Jermažešlav Golasowská working Pavla - working day - Pastuchová day - Antonín day - working day - working time - Hájek Jiří - working day - working day - Aleš time - working day - working day - working day - working day - working day - Jaroslava day St. The members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír all day - foreign trip, Bek Mikuláš all day - foreign trip, Černochová Jana whole day - medical reasons, Jurečka Marian whole day - foreign trip, Kupka Martin whole day - foreign trip, Langšádlová Helena from 9 to 10.30 - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk whole day - medical reasons, Šalomoun Michal whole day - medical reasons and Vlastimil Válek whole day - working reasons. So many apologies. Today's meeting should begin by discussing the fixed points 107, the House's press 327, the draft budget of the State Cinematography Fund for 2023 and the medium-term outlook for 2024 and 2025; further, we would continue with paragraph 170, the House's press 333, the amendment to the Act on Electronic Acts and Authorized Conversion, the third reading; 122, House press 270, amendment to the Sports Support Act, third reading. Then we would continue by discussing points from the section of the Law - second reading, in the order proposed from the Gremium. These are points 11, 13, 5 and 6, House prints 285, 312, 106 and 107. We would then discuss paragraph 74, House press 165, amendment of the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, first reading. I declare that points 111, 115, 116 and 117 of the third reading block can be discussed. These are House prints 75, 218, 219 and 249. Now I ask if anyone is interested in changing the agenda of the approved meeting? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were here last night discussing two key laws that my colleague Lucie Šafránková presented in the opposition window, this was the Act on State Social Support, or to say it directly, it was an increase in parental contribution from 300 to 360 000 crowns, what the SPD has in the bill, we have a proposal from 300 to 400. We wanted to put amendments there, of course, and we also discussed increasing the care allowance, because as I pointed out here several times yesterday on the microphone...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down so that Mr Juchelka can concentrate on his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u4	As I have warned several times here, there is a payment decree in internal commentary proceedings at the moment, which increases from 135 crowns to 155 crowns an hour of care for all those who need it. And since yesterday we didn't even come to opening these points here because the members of the government coalition, even though they were sitting here, didn't know how to insert the card into their instruments and vote or vote, to sign up for being here, and de facto to block the House's negotiations, and the opposition window, I would say completely declassifying, so I have, of course, a few suggestions here to put us on this today, because we already have more members of the government coalition who might be more reasonable than those who were here yesterday, and maybe they get the courage, actually sign up and maybe they'll vote in some way on these points. I'm going to have three points in mind that I'd like to add before we start having those points fixed here. We propose to increase the parental contribution for one simple reason. The inflation crisis is shifting from energy, those prices that are so high for electricity and gas, towards food, and I think that it is very crucial not only for seniors who live alone, in a single household, they are most at risk, because if you already have two pensions, as you know, two are better than one, they can somehow tighten it up if we contribute to housing, but if the senior is already alone, of course he will start to have problems on the expense page. [[9.10 hours]] This means that when I give a specific example: if we have parents who have a small child, one of them cares because he has a child on parental leave, and they reach CZK 37,000 with that parent and with that income of one partner, that is the limit on income, which, when he gets below 37,000, these people are really falling into poverty and increasing parental contribution could help them at some stage. We're not saying, let's increase it all the time, but let's just bridge some critical period, just so those families with children aren't beaten up so much that we have such high inflation here, because they're just gonna come at it so badly. I've already introduced it, and I suspect it was on TV yesterday, when... I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u5	Colleagues, co-workers, I thought just one reminder and a request for silence was enough. That's not true, so I repeat once again, please keep the room down. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u6	Yes, thank you very much. Because it's very important, it's very important, we call it a halp, a deep human story, because a lot of people end up next year, and I'm one of them, mortgage fixation ends for the rest of my mortgage, and already my bank advisor called me, that if I owe the rest of the 1 million crowns, I'm going to raise my payments from 5,000 to 8,300. This means that if we borrow here in the Czech Republic statistically... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador. You're out of time.]] Excuse me, so I'm suggesting a first point, and that's an increase in parental allowance. Then I'll sign up for the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u7	So let me just make sure you're proposing a new point? [[Yes. Raise the parental allowance.]] Thank you. I have a message for you that Mr Bžoch votes with a replacement card 27 and Mr Skopeček with a replacement card 31. And now President Radim Fiala will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. I add, of course, to what my colleague, Mr Juchelka, said here, because yesterday we proposed two points, we proposed an increase in parental allowance and a second law, a bill, a contribution to care for the disabled, and it happened that, as your prime minister says, you didn't let anyone fall, so yesterday you didn't lift a finger for the disabled and you didn't lift a finger for mothers with children. So we're not just gonna let this go, we care about these people, and we're gonna try to reopen those points, so I'm glad that Mr. Juchelka's fellow Member suggested that point. We will, of course, support him, and I would like to ask the coalition to think, at least move the finger and support this point. Of course, what happened yesterday cannot be left unanswered, and we will, of course, respond to that during this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u9	Okay, so you're not suggesting a new point, you're just stating the connection to the proposal. Please - yes, you'll have five minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u10	Thank you very much. I'm trying and I'll be as short as I can. That point about raising the parental contribution, I mentioned it here, and yesterday, of course, in the opposition window, we discussed the second point, and that is the care allowance. As you know, he is qualified here in four stages, where the first and second degrees actually went away in the last term since the third and fourth, because we increased the allowance to care in the third and fourth levels precisely for helping disabled people, but also for those who are in institutional care, and for all the contribution organizations who really do not receive the funds. So we also helped increase the payment decree during the last parliamentary term and at present, because the payment decree did not really reach the constitutional care of giving quality food to seniors throughout the day. That's why we needed to increase it, because of course we talked about it here, so that our seniors could simply afford vegetables, fruit or meat in institutional care, in some normal portions. But what is scandalous in my opinion, and we have not heard any answers about this here during yesterday's day, is that when the payment decree is increasing, and in this year even for the second time, and already to 155 crowns, it will at this moment touch mainly those who are at home and who take care of their handicapped children or partners or parents. This is a very difficult situation for them, because at the moment we know that in the internal review procedure there is an increase in this payment decree, which, when it comes down to it, these people will be able to afford less hours of care a month and for some families it is really fatal, they write to me and I mentioned the sums here yesterday, and since there was only a part of the government coalition, I will, of course, repeat them again. My mother, a friend of mine, wrote to me who cares about a very heavily handicapped son who is in the fourth degree of disability. The one in the square, as we all know, takes care allowance of CZK 19,200, but monthly it costs eight hours of assistance service because she works, CZK 35,000 and the rest has to pay out of her own. If the payment decree for the 20 crowns increases, which may seem to us to have little to do with our salaries, it will pay more than 40,000 crowns just to allow it only to afford eight hours of assistance. All those who care about such severely disabled partners, children, know that this is a 24/7 job, that it is not just a matter of eight or ten hours, that it really needs that care nonstop. How hard it is for older parents who already have adults with such handicapped children, just to lift them up to bed, to turn or not god in their senior years to bathe, so power is not enough, and therefore it is necessary to support this home care here, which is still cheaper than institutional care in one month, even here in these amounts. I suggested that we discuss this here, because without it - and that is the weight, that is the balance - so that we do notvalorize the care allowance, but just to fool those I would say to the most vulnerable and most needy, who cannot find a second, third job in their expenses for assistance services, so please let us leave it and postpone the increase in the payment decree until we discuss the fact that we have reviewed the care allowance. And we were just proposing here yesterday, and we want to talk about it on the Social Policy Committee as well as with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, that it is necessary at the moment - and I think that these people really deserve it and call for it for several years - to include a five, that is, fifth degree, or to adjust the four levels of care allowance so that perhaps the highest one is really for those who want to be in their home environment and it is a matter of some respect, pride and I would say humanity. I therefore propose, Madam President, another point, to place it before the fixed points again, and I will call it simply, and that is the payment decree and the contribution to care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Are you suggesting we put this as a new point? Thank you. And now, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a change to the agenda of the meeting, and to re-classify the incredible theater by the government's five-calice press 9, it's the laws of the SPD to increase the contribution to care, it's point 40. And also printing 266, raising the parental allowance, it's point 91. [[9.20 hours]] What happened here last night? I told you last night. The government's five-calice allowed the so-called opposition window in quotation marks, so the SPD used it as the only party. After all, there are only two opposition parties here. We have proposed today, at a difficult time - we have already had the law here for almost a year - we have proposed an increase in the contribution to care for disabled citizens. Furthermore, we have proposed an increase in parental contribution because the government is not helping people. Prime Minister Petr Fiala sits behind me now, so he did not secure cheap energy, millions of citizens have huge financial problems, it is everywhere in statistics already, in surveys. The government is simply doing nothing, and more and more people are getting into huge financial problems. And what happened here last night? So, even though the government coalition allowed the so-called opposition window, then you did not sign up here with your voting cards, that is, there was no vote-voor and our proposals were not to be discussed. So instead of quite openly and fairly inserting the voting cards and voting 'no', that means you're against it, so you basically didn't slide those cards in so there wasn't a vote. You have spat directly into the eyes of all disabled citizens who need a care allowance and all families with children who need a parental allowance. And he laughed in the eye of all these groups of residents here, the chairman of the TOP 09 MP Jan Jakob, who arrogantly suggested that our proposals be postponed until June 2023, which means another year of waiting for citizens, that Minister Jurečka would probably propose something. We don't know what because he hasn't submitted anything. For a year now, citizens have been in crisis, your government has been ruling here for a year, and it is said that the next six months to a year will be waiting for citizens. That's crazy what you guys did, that's crazy. And I'll just remind you that tomorrow is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, and instead of reminding us of this International Day of Persons with Disabilities by allowing you to discuss SPD proposals to increase the care allowance for disabled citizens who can't help themselves - by the way, these are cases where, for example, disabled citizens need to move from a wheelchair at home at night, for example, they need to sleep and so on, and they don't have the ability to move them from a wheelchair - so this is what you've just rejected here yesterday. No, you didn't deny it, you did the theater for allowing the SPD's opposition window, but at the same time you didn't allow it to be discussed. And then there's the chairman of the TOP 09 MP Jan Jakob, that's the group around the TOP 09 Chairwoman Pekarová Adamová, so it's similar to rhetoric, and he arrogantly said here that the opposition was not in sufficient numbers here. What opposition? I mean, the SPD was here. And then I explained here that he should not lie that the fact that the members of the ANO movement were not in sufficient numbers here does not concern the SPD. We were here for the SPD, and it was our bills. We're not responsible for any other political parties, if anyone's here or not. But most of all, the responsibility is yours as a government coalition, you have a majority here, so not only have you not signed up for these necessary laws to be discussed quickly so that we can increase the contribution to care and parental contribution, you still pussy... Not only are you not going to sign up, but you're going to blame it on the other opposition party that has absolutely nothing to do with it. Yeah, we need your government votes in the first place, yeah, they were supposed to be here, too, of course, I'm not defending anyone. We're also surprised because we need the votes, we need all the votes in the House for these necessary laws, that's true, but first of all, you have a majority here, a hundred and eight, and without you, it wouldn't have been voted out to move it to another reading, yeah, so you don't have to make a fool of me here, Chairman Jakob. You can think what you want about me. But what's interesting is that when we talked today, I'm supposed to go to the Prima game on Sunday, as usual, they couldn't get a guest against me because nobody in the government five-caliber wanted to go. First of all, the government tells me no one wants to go against me. What are they afraid of? For example, I have repeatedly called on Prime Minister Petr Fiala for this Sunday to come live with me for an hour to the Prima game, I have been challenging him for a year. I'm not afraid to go live. The question is, why is the Prime Minister afraid to go, why doesn't he want to go live? By the way, in this context, I also asked President Babiš if he had similar experience and said he had similar experience. So neither against the President nor against one of the two opposition party chairmen wants to go live on the show. Come on, I'm saying again, I've already used that word, it would be a normal coward among men, wouldn't it? That's for sure. He doesn't want to make an opinion exchange, does he? I don't think it's much, because what you did here yesterday, Mr. Ambassador, that we have proposals for parental allowance and care allowance, for increase, people are really in unsolvable situations when I said the wheelchair situation. And instead of volunteering, you will first allow the opposition window, so you will call the Chamber of Deputies on it, and then you will not turn yourself in so that it cannot be discussed. I think it's too much. I think it's too much! Well, we wouldn't even vote it out with opposition votes, because most of it is you, Mr. Ambassador, so it's not true, so you don't have to play it on me either, you have comedy like that. That means you guys did this thing here, but let's go back in business. I'd like to propose a change in the program now. That means, the problem here is that we proposed it here yesterday - I really consider it very inadequate that you first allowed the opposition window, even though it was allowed - today to almost beg a government coalition, if it wants to at least propose a proposal for people to contribute - and then you didn't allow it to be discussed. So I, in short, would like to redesign these two points for the SPD, because people are really in need. The SPD has already filed dozens of similar necessary bills that lie here in the House, you've been blocking it all along. And you'd rather take your time here by voting for an unlimited number of deputies this week that you voted for an unlimited number of political news outlets at the ministries. You guys have been voting for the last month to set up a new office for a billion, a billion a year, so, of course, you have other priorities. But you guys here voted that you wanted to take over Czech Television and Czech Radio politically. These are government five-calice priorities, but we want to help people, people are in trouble. That means I wanted to ask you again to put it as point 1 and point 2. Those points are in the agenda, and again, I would like to ask you not to mess with citizens like that and really spit in their faces like that, because many citizens have been looking forward to it, because when they saw that the SPD was able to place an increase in parental contribution on the opposition window and increase the contribution to care for disabled citizens, we have already heard from some citizens that they are looking forward to it, that it finally got to the point of the program. And then, of course, they were absolutely frustrated, repeated and long-term, with the government's five-calice approach to putting it in place, and then they wouldn't be able to discuss it. That's crazy. That's crazy! And at the same time, you're not suggesting anything at all. So that's my proposal, and please, in that sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u13	Yes, thank you. Did you mean the Social Services Act and the State Social Support Act? Yes, I have that recorded, thank you. Now with priority right to the agenda of the meeting, President Marek Výborný, then Mr Robert králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, if I may, I can see, I can hear a heated atmosphere here, I would try to get back to this House's calm, rational behavior in some way. First of all, through what President Okamura said here. I would ask that he comply with the Rules of Procedure, not address Members here from the counter as they should not, or possibly through Madam President, and, secondly, not insulting Prime Minister Petr Fiala, that does not really belong here. The second thing, try asking your club president, who, I assume, and as I know him, knows the rules of procedure well over the years. It is really naive to think that you need the votes of the Coalition Members to push your proposals. In order for your proposal to be referred to committees, you will need 66 votes in the case of the lowest bidder, and this is available to you as an opposition. So please don't expect your proposals here to support the government coalition, that's a little naive. [[9.30 hours]] And because - to what my colleague Aleš Juchelka said earlier - we consider the things that were opened and discussed here yesterday to be really important and essential, whether it be a care allowance, a payment decree, a parental contribution, these are not topics that we consider as a government coalition to be secondary, unimportant, something that should not be discussed. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has repeatedly reminded us that he is engaged in these issues, and the government will come up with these proposals. I would like to propose a solution that may unblock today's negotiations. We have an approved programme here, of course we will also vote on the proposals for these changes, but also from the political grémia, with the participation of the chairmen and opposition clubs, a programme for today has been agreed. Let us please go back to this, and let us include the topics that colleague Aleš Juchelka has said here at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy. President Kaňkovský is here, I believe I can agree with him to include these topics in some of the next Committee meetings with the Minister. The Minister will present us with what direction the government will go, with what and what timetable it will come up with, and I believe that we will also find mutual support and consensus here between the government majority and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, on the proposal for a programme, Mr králíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u16	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, before I propose my two points, I would only briefly respond with one sentence to Mr Výborný. Well, Mr Výborný, through Madam President, we do not expect you to support the opposition's proposals, nor are we so naive. But my colleagues who weren't here yesterday assumed that you as democratic parties, as you cling to it, would at least allow a democratic debate on opposition proposals. You didn't even do that, and now you've told us how Mr Jurečka did it, that we should not count on any support for opposition proposals, even if they were the best. Now I'll get to it, I'll follow up on my previous speakers. I am not an expert in the social field, but I see the importance of discussing this, and because I think that the space should occur as soon as possible, so I would like to propose item 170, House press 333, so-called data boxes. I do not think that this point is so crucial that we have to discuss it so quickly. We approved it together with your votes in the last parliamentary term. We have a law to establish data boxes for people who use - I note - electronic identity. When you remember, in the past some electronic actions were also the subject of discussions and opposition to the general public and the general public, whether I remember at random the Czech POINTs, or when I remember data boxes at their birth in 2009, or even eRecipe, but even though we insisted on it, we had the courage to put it in place, so it was enjoyed, the citizens use it, and today we cannot imagine life without it. So I think we should give space to more necessary discussions, which I think the two discussed opposition proposals are, and I naively, naively believe that you will support them so that they have space and we don't have to rush, so I'm making a motion for elimination. And as a second proposal, if elimination was too brutal for you, and somehow it offended you, so I would like to propose a reposition of this point number 170, House press 333, as the last item of the current meeting. Thank you for your support and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have therefore exhausted the proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. Before we begin the vote, I will read an apology: Hayato Okamura apologizes throughout the day for health reasons. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposals in the order that they have been tabled. I've logged the logout request, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards. I'm gonna go get some co-workers from the lobby. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We would therefore now vote on the first proposal, which is Mr Juchelka's proposal to include a new point, which is to increase the parental contribution. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 163, 152 Members of Parliament signed up, for 72, against 27. The proposal was rejected, or we will no longer vote on solid inclusion. The second proposal is once again Mr Juchelka's proposal, which proposed to include a new item entitled the Refund Order and the care allowance. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 164, 152 Members of Parliament entered, for 72, against 11. The motion was denied. We will therefore not vote on solid inclusion. The next proposal is the proposal by President Tomio Okamura, who proposes item 40, House Press 9, which is the Social Services Act, to put the first item on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 165, 152 Members of Parliament entered, for 71, against 17. The motion was denied. The second proposal by President Okamura is item 91, House press 266, which is the Parliamentary Bill on State Social Support. It proposes to include it in front of the already firmly ranked points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 166, 153 Members of Parliament signed in for 71, versus 13. The motion was denied. Yes, President Okamura to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I found out that I wanted to vote in favour of the vote number 165, and I have 'delayed', but I am not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u19	That's just for the tape. We will therefore continue to vote. Mr králíček proposed the elimination of paragraph 170, House press 333, which is the law on electronic operations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 167, 153 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 56, versus 61. The motion was denied. [[9.40 hours]] The Member had another alternative proposal. He wants to include point 170, House press 333, which is the law on electronic actions, as the last point of the current meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 168, 153 Members and Members, in favour of 55, versus 66. The motion was denied. We have therefore exhausted the vote on all proposals. prosit, President Schillerová with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the five-police government once again today and yesterday demonstrated that the social area and so much proclaimed "we will not let anyone fall" by the Prime Minister, who sits behind me, and "we will focus on the most necessary" as we have been hearing for a year, so it is not her priority. Once again, we see that this is not her priority. Yesterday, my colleague Aleš Juchelka, the shadow minister of labour and social affairs, did not go through the amendment of the MEP for the YES movement, so that child allowances would not rise by 200 crowns in individual groups, but by 35 percent, as used to be, because it is logical that there are probably other needs for a child under 6 years of age and other needs for a child who needs 18 years of age. It didn't work. We're not talking about any large sums. Parents are not constantly identified by the public declarations of various ministers, especially the Minister of Finance, who proposes to reduce or shorten parental contribution when the Minister of Labour has promised to increase it for several months. When we want to talk about it, it's just not a priority, just like the situation in social benefits. We're flooded with e-mails by the fact that these welfare benefits are late. These problems should be a priority for the government in this difficult crisis period, they obviously are not, and today's vote has been repeatedly confirmed, as has yesterday's vote. The YES movement has no choice but to collect signatures and convene an extraordinary meeting on the Social Problems of the people of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u22	Let's review what the government's five-calice Petr Fiala has done here. Yesterday, the SPD submitted eight proposals to help the needy and decent people in the Czech Republic. You've rejected all of us. We've submitted a proposal to increase the housing allowance...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u23	I apologize, Mr President, for interrupting. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u24	We've put forward a proposal here to increase child support. We have also put forward this to include mortgages in housing expenditures, and we have presented an extension of the family support circuit here. You rejected all of our proposals yesterday during the day. At the same time, Petr Fiala's five-calice did not propose any similar proposals for any more fundamental assistance to our decent citizens. After the SPD's long-term pressure, you've put some extra 200 through here, which, of course, will not help citizens in this expensive way. Of course, we have also voted in favour of this. There's still something better than nothing. I remind you that just now you have once again rejected the SPD's proposals in two days to increase the care allowance for disabled citizens and proposals to increase the parental contribution. I will remind you that tomorrow is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, so we as the SPD did not only want to support disabled citizens on the occasion of this day, of course, because the SPD has long supported all disabled people. Unfortunately, the government's five-calice Petr Fiala in the composition of ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates do not support disabled citizens, you do not support seniors. After all, last summer, when we voted here to raise our pensions by CZK 300 since this January, this increase in pensions was voted out by the SPD and YES Members and some two other members from the parties who are no longer here. Members of the current five-police government, when they were also in opposition with us, voted against raising pensions. So that's the government's five-calice policy, Petr Fiala. And the fact that now, from a law that was passed long before your government, it only valorizes here because of inflation - that is, even if there was a trained monkey at the head of the state, it occurs because there is a mandatory statutory valorisation in the case of inflation above 5% - that is what every state, every government, would have to do automatically, without any action. That means, here again, for the second time in two days, you have rejected the really needed citizens' support, you refuse to talk about it. I must say that the President of the KDU-ČSL club Marek Výborný, who is putting it off again. He's still playing around here, juggling the words that the government actually has a lot of time, that it'll ever be discussed on the committee. But you've been with the government for a year, and these people have been suffering for a year, and they don't have any money, so there's nothing to wait for. So, unfortunately, this is a miserable situation, and as I said, the SPD movement - I said it on Tuesday - the SPD will try to collect signatures for an emergency meeting on the issue of expensive energy regarding the problem of helping citizens. So, of course, that's right, because you refuse to place these points, even when it comes to helping people with expensive energy. Prime Minister Fiala keeps saying on TV how good the government is doing it, which is absolutely unbelievable. It's just that the Prime Minister doesn't seem to live in reality, he lives only on that state plane and in the luxury car behind the dark mirrors. And, of course, I must say that we will be happy to support, if we are approached by the YES movement, we will also be happy to support the emergency meeting on social matters, in any case, because this is of course also a need, especially in the context that the government coalition has repeatedly rejected the necessary proposals to support the needy citizens, those decent citizens, who, of course, are now in great need because of the Fialův Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-02-ps2021-045-07-000-000.u25	We will now proceed to discuss the first point of our meeting. That's what it is.
