ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign you off first and ask you to sign up with your ID cards. I'll also ask you to tell me who you're asking to issue a replacement card. And now a statement to apologize for not attending the hearing. The following Members asked: Babiš Andrej - working reasons, Jana Bačíková - working reasons... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] However, I ask you to keep it down, there's really a lot of noise in the room. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Margita Balaštíková - health reasons, Jan Bartošek within 10 hours - working reasons, Josef Bělica - health reasons, Josef Bernard - working reasons, Stanislav Blaha - personal reasons, Richard Brabec - health reasons, Lenka Dražilová - health reasons, Petr Fifka - foreign travel, Stanislav Fridrich - family reasons, Pavla Golasowská - health reasons, Tomáš Helebrant - health reasons, David Kasal - health reasons, Pavel Kašník - health reasons, Ondřej Kolář - health reasons, Věra Kovářová apologizes herself from 9.45 to 11.15 hours for health reasons... and I really ask who you want to talk, please go to the showroom, thank you. Robert králíček also apologizes for health reasons, Martin Major from 14:00 to midnight - foreign travel, Jiří Mašek - health reasons, Tomio Okamura within 11 hours - working reasons, Zuzana Ožanová - working reasons, Jana Pastuchová - health reasons, Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová - family reasons, Lucie Potůčková - family reasons, Michaela Šebelová - no reason given, Barbora Urbanová - working reasons, Radovan Vích - family reasons, Viktor Vojtko - foreign travel, Ivo Vondrák - working reasons, Milan Wenzl - health reasons. Those were Members' apologies received on that date. And also excuses of members of the government: Petr Fiala apologizes for foreign travel, Pavel Blažek for work reasons, Jana Černochová for health reasons, Anna Hubáčková for work reasons, Helena Langšádlová for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý for work reasons, Zdeněk Nekula for work reasons, Vít Rakušan within 12 hours for work reasons, Zbyněk Stanjura for work reasons and Michal Šalomoun from 12 hours for work reasons. Well, that was an apology so far. And since we have not started item 12 until today, which is the House press 137 - building law, we should start today's negotiations, based on the House's decision, on this very point. We would, of course, continue with other points according to the approved programme. But now I'm giving room if there's a motion to change the agenda. I don't see anyone, so we can move on to the first point of today's show, and that's the point.
