ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u1	102. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the Budget Committee, Mr Josef Bernard, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments have been delivered to you as House press 315/3 and the draft accompanying resolutions have been delivered to you as House press 315/4. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of our Rules of Procedure. The draft law shall not be directed to the guarantee committee for discussion. Before I open the debate, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, to present a set of amendments and accompanying resolutions and to present a draft voting procedure. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief, I'll limit myself to introducing you today to the draft procedure as we proceed. We are in the third reading of the bill on the state budget for next year. [[9.10 hours]] Firstly, we would vote on possible legislative technical, grammatical, written or press mistakes if they are read during today's negotiations, that is clear. The Committee on Budgets did not accept any amendment, which means that we would proceed directly to the vote on amendments from the plenary debate at second reading. All amendments are annexed to the material for the House's press 315/3. We will therefore follow this House's press. We would be the first to vote on Mr Bartoš's amendment. This relates to the text section of the draft State Budget Act as set out in Annex 1. This concerns the integration of the Digital Information Agency. Then we would continue with the individual proposals set out in Annex 2, with a view to expressing ourselves first and taking a position on the amendment under order number 52. Please note that, after its approval, it will not be possible to vote on a proposal under number 31, I have received a clear opinion from the legislative department. These two proposals together are not voteable; we must vote for only one proposal. In my procedure, I propose this procedure. Then we would vote on all the other amendments as set out in Annex 2. It is order number 1 through 62, so we have 62 amendments. We will then vote on the bill as a whole. Just in conclusion, my point has already been made. In this case, the Committee on Budgets is not a guarantee committee, that is, we do not have opinions on individual amendments from the Committee on Budgets, that is, the opinion will be communicated only by the Minister of Finance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u3	Thank you, rapporteur. With the replacement card number 36, Mrs Eva Decroix will be voting today. With priority rights, the Minister asked me. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u4	Thank you for the floor. I just want to remind you that a total of 62 amendments have been tabled, two are identical, the rapporteur has spoken about it, which means one vote we will decide the fate of both of these amendments when they are identical. I would like to remind you that the Budgetary Rules Act sets the minimum amount of the government's budgetary reserve at 0.3 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget, which, in our case, when I put it exactly on the koruna, is 6 668 862 424. If I quickly sum up all the amendments that propose to move money from the government's budget reserve, we will monitor it on an ongoing basis, those proposals are more than 20 billion, that is, if during the vote it turns out that we are already at the minimum level, all the other proposals will automatically be unvoted. It is no surprise, as always, and I will state my position on the amendments at the time of the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u5	Thank you. I have two priority rights here. [[Mrs Schiller tells off the microphone that she wants to perform the procedure.]] At this point, we are before the debate is opened. Proposals for a change of procedure are important to be heard in the debate, which means that - just for the sake of order - I have the right to a point of priority here, on the draft law on the State Budget for 2023. President Schillerová, do you wish to speak with priority after the debate is opened? Okay. And as another priority right, Minister Ivan Bartoš is registered. I, therefore, open the debate at third reading and on the proposed procedure. Now, with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I wanted to take the lead in the procedure, but I will speak just before the vote so that we can have it freshly in our head, because there are really two identical amendments, so I will logically want to argue and look for some - I will certainly counter-proposal and then we will talk about what to do next. Now, I'm going to perform with my priority right, and I'm going to do my third reading on the budget in general. Promises of how the government will be budgetaryly responsible, how it will reduce debt, how it will digitize, reduce the number of officials, have disappeared after a year since the election of the government's five-wheeler. The budget for 2023 is a clear example of this. Today, we are in a situation where the current five-calice government not only can't make use of crucial inflationary revenues to help our citizens and companies, but also presents a budget that is at the limit of legality. Its budget revenue has not been evaluated by the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts and is counting on revenue from two new taxes, whose revenue estimates are entirely on the water. Moreover, it is already quite clear that it will have to take place - and I am convinced of it - to adjust the expenditure of the state budget, and that is why the budget is being discussed today, which is likely to be amended again in the following year. Current double-digit inflation is significantly inflating the revenue of the state budget. In the estimate of revenue for 2023 you have CZK 300 billion more than you counted in your first draft budget for 2022. Inflation, which destroys Czech businesses, is burdening Czech citizens, on the contrary, to the Minister of Finance, to the government, to the budget, bringing tens to hundreds of billions of crowns more to collect taxes. The State is clearly an entity that benefits from high inflation. Inflation, which destroys the economic stability of Czech citizens, causes a dynamic increase in tax collection, for example, by more than 8 percent in VAT, and the total revenue from VAT collection is estimated at over CZK 380 billion in 2023. However, revenue from other taxes, corporate tax, personal income tax or social security income will also rise dynamically. But inflation revenues are obviously not enough for the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, and therefore new taxes are introduced, which coincidentally will generate collections for the state budget at the time you rule. And the fact that you trumped in strong terms before the election that you will not increase taxes is long forgotten because today you are introducing taxes of two people. Of course, you justify this in an extraordinary situation that there was no other option, but that's not true. There was another option, and we've been pointing it out since spring 2022. We warned you about this, and we called on you to put a stop to the energy prices of the manufacturers. You wouldn't let them make record profits, and now you wouldn't have to try hard to take them away again. And then it wouldn't be necessary to send a billion-dollar compensation out of all of our money to the vendors, because they have to sell expensive energy cheaper. The reason why the coalition has chosen a completely bad and disadvantageous mechanism for the state budget to put a stop to salesmen is probably only known by the government, and perhaps by some energy-lobbists. The initial estimate of state budget revenues for 2022, with which Minister Stanjura could count, was CZK 1,613.2 billion. The amendment to the state budget for 2022 already includes revenues of CZK 1 678.3 billion and the draft state budget for 2023 CZK 1 928 billion, just below CZK 2 trillion. This increase of CZK 300 billion year on year is linked to extraordinary inflation, which is predicted for 2022 of 15 percent and for 2023 of around 9.5%, but also from economic growth in 2022, from the low unemployment that our government managed to maintain, from the recovery of tourism after the health crisis, and of course from new taxes. [[9.20 hours]] Moreover, the introduction of these two new taxes is accompanied by only the chaos and cluelessness of economic ministers headed by you, Minister. I'm talking, of course, about the tax on unexpected profits and the levy of excessive income on the Energy Act. The tax on unexpected profits was submitted in a positive fashion as an amendment to the tax package under discussion, which caused almost all discussions to be left out. The agreement on the basic parameters of this new tax was not welcomed by economic experts or other experts, even the economic advisor of the Prime Minister called it a pasquil. And the match wasn't even at first inside the whole five-caliber. The government's five-wheelers were unable to reach agreement with each other at the very beginning, and so it happened that while part of the government officials said that this new tax would apply for 2022, the finance minister subsequently denied it and announced its effectiveness only from 2023. This disagreement, I'm sure you remember, caused a panic on the stock market and a fall in stock prices by tens of billions of crowns. Moreover, it was not clear what the limits for corporate taxation would be or what the tax rate would be. Moreover, this tax is highly selective and taxes, for example, only some banks, while others are completely ignored. The fact that there is a debate in the galleys about why and how this limit was created for banks to avoid taxation of banks, I will now leave it generously aside. That's got to explain the five-wheelers to the voters once. The revenue of this tax alone is estimated at 85 billion in the state budget, and given that I have not seen any analysis, I assume none of you have seen it, as the Minister of Finance Stanjura has reached these figures, I assume it was determined more or less randomly. A number of economists show that the height of this collection is completely unrealistic. In addition, the Minister of Finance quite at once removed the municipalities and regions from the collection of this tax, and thus the amendment to the tax package de facto resulted in the adjustment of the budgetary determination of taxes, which was brought to the attention of my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Let us not forget that regions and municipalities have enormously increased spending in connection with the energy crisis. It is they who run most hospitals, schools, kindergartens, social facilities, and other establishments where spending has increased enormously. Although they are undoubtedly in the front line, the five-calice still threw them overboard. The strange thing is that part of the five-calice, the starosta and the independent, didn't scream this time like they screamed in the last term. Moreover, let us not forget, this income was in the draft state budget at a time when we did not yet know the parameters, the basic parameters of this tax. That's something I, as former Treasury Secretary, would never dare do. The second new tax envisaged by the draft budget for 2023, is the levy on excess income under the Energy Act. The process of negotiating this law itself, this second tax law, in a state of legislative emergency, when the legal requirements of legislative emergency were not met, is very problematic. Moreover - and now this is crucial - in the course of these taxes, we may be getting into a potential collision with the Czech Constitution, but also with the law of the European Union. This is clearly double taxation, these taxes affect one sector and may potentially have a so-called throbbing effect on the sector. It may be so calm that the Constitutional Court will say in the future that something like this is not possible, and I will then be very curious how the Minister of Finance will replace these expected revenues. And now a little bit of numbers, because it doesn't add up at all, and that, as the former finance minister, is extremely disturbing to me. The figures presented in the amendment to the Energy Act are multiplely different from those presented in the State Budget, which we are discussing here today. Minister Síkela estimates income from over-income payments of 85 billion, but the state budget documentation contains 15 billion. So the difference is more than five times. This is no longer about the deviation of the calculation. On the other hand, Minister Síkela plans to reduce the tax revenue from unexpected profits to CZK 45 billion, while in the state budget we have said income tax on unexpected profits of CZK 85 billion. The differences are therefore crucial, in tens of billions of crowns. This in quotation marks, however, does not seem to bother any of the economic ministers and we have heard the interpretations of how they are connected vessels and so on. We're just talking about the budget, we're talking about something that's gonna build the future of this country, and it's built a lot, a lot on the water. Unfortunately, these new taxes do not end with five-calice violations on the income side. Another very problematic part of the state budget presented is the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, with the revenues of this chapter in the astronomical amount of CZK 94 billion, of which CZK 50 billion is to be recovered from the Modernization Fund. However, according to the current Czech legislation, income from the Modernization Fund is part of the State Environmental Fund's budget, i.e. if the government's five-calice wanted to divert these funds, it would have to change Czech legislation, and I don't see this effort here at all. Moreover, the Modernisation Fund is governed by European directives, decided by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, i.e. a government five-calice is not enough to change national legislation, but European institutions also need to be involved in this transfer. So many of the most important things to the revenue side. And now, please, I'm going to focus on the expense page. The total expenditure of the state budget is increasing to CZK 2 223 billion, an increase of CZK 330 billion compared to the original draft state budget from the Cabinet of Petr Fiala for 2022. These are the planned expenses of the coalition, which based its program on the motto that the government of Andrej Babiš is spending too much. Minister Stanjura's fiscal policy has nothing to do with the so much claimed consolidation of public finances. Moreover, the five-calice is not a solution at all to reduce the structural deficit, on the contrary, increasing it from -2,9% of GDP in 2022 to -3,1 percent of GDP in 2023. As long as you haven't forgotten to cancel the EET, you've cost the Treasury at least 13 billion only for the first two EET waves every year. And your proposal, supported by the gambling tax reduction proposal, is completely out of my depth. Fortunately, it was withdrawn. [[9.30 hours]] Unfortunately, even on the expense side, you do incredible kicks. From my point of view, moving part of the negative balance of the state budget into the balance sheet of state funds is completely unacceptable. In your draft state budget, you increase the balance of state funds, primarily the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, by CZK 30 billion compared to your proposal from September 2022. Moreover, as you have declared, Minister, you are supposedly planning to borrow these funds from the European Investment Bank. However, we do not know at all the conditions under which we do not know the interest rate height, and so we have a bit of a hunch, or I suspect that the only reason is the effort to reduce the state budget's optical deficit. It is already quite clear that funds will be missing in a number of areas, such as transport. And that is where our most financially large amendment is headed, but also in the area of regional education, science and universities, which you, as former Rector of Masaryk University, have completely abandoned. Yes, I'm talking about the Prime Minister. We also need to increase sports spending. For example, we propose the transfer of funds from investment support for sport to the grant itself to sport, because, with the current dramatic increase in the expenditure of individual sports clubs, the question is whether these clubs will survive the following year. We were in Brno last week with Mr. Chairman Babiš, we dealt with representatives of almost all the sports clubs that operate there, famous sports clubs, and they all have huge problems, huge problems. I would also like coalition Members to consider the support of our amendments. Just yesterday, an analysis of Cyrrus was published, under which a team of analysts quantified that the average working person in our Republic would be missing CZK 40,000 to maintain last year's standard of living. The Czech Republic has historically the highest decline in real wages in history as well as the highest decline in real wages from all OECD countries as a result of Petr Fiala's government policy. This is the real result of the annual reign of the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. The State budget is to be an essential instrument of economic policy. Unfortunately, this instrument, this basic instrument, is developed poorly, with a number of fundamental errors at the limit of what the law allows. However, the biggest problem with this budget is that the government coalition, through it, does not plan to prevent a significant decline in the standard of living, which is already felt by the vast majority of Czech citizens, and the problems will get worse next year. Moreover, I do not see enough support in this budget for companies and businesses, and unfortunately I have to say here that a number of Czech companies will have to end their activities as a result of the failure of the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u7	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies that have arrived. From 11 to 13 o'clock, Mr Jan Lacina apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Hayato Okamura also apologizes for the whole day for health reasons. Within 10 hours for family reasons, Mrs Olga Richterová apologizes and from 11.15 to 13 hours for work reasons, Minister Martin Baxa apologizes. In addition, Vice-President Havlíček is in favour of the right, but since we are in the third reading, I ask, Minister, are you applying for a factual remark or do you want a preferential right? Favorite law, okay, I'll put you in order. There are three priority rights, it is not possible to change the order in this way. That means, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor. President Okamura will be ready, then Vice-President Dostálová, then Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Minister and other members of the Government. I've already spoken here for a long time on the budget of 2023. I will stick only to my Amendment 1615 and dare to ask for its support, and once again I will justify why this is so. This is a high amount, CZK 30.7 billion, but the amount that is in the state finances anyway, that is, we are not asking for anything new. To put it simply, it is the amount that fell to the Ministry of Transport's office instead of being dealt with at the Ministry of Finance. This reduces the deficit optically, but unfortunately the debt of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is increasing, which will translate into expenditure on road construction, motorways, railways and so on in the future. For the last time, then, Minister, I warn against creating this dangerous precedent. Why am I warning you about this? Not only we, but the National Budget Board, which rejects this procedure, says that it is nothing more than an optical reduction in the budget deficit, which at the moment is CZK 295 billion, but it should actually be at CZK 325 billion, if we proceed as we have, as it used to be, and as I believe it is also correct towards transport constructions. We all know that this is reflected in total debt either way, only improving the deficit. The problem here is that we are taking it on credit from the European Investment Bank, and the bigger problem is that it is far from just the CZK 30.7 billion you are missing today to cover the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The problem is that you're taking a loan significantly higher, somewhere at CZK 170 billion - at least that's what it looks like it could be the framework, which is logical, because that's the only way. The European Investment Bank will not put the resources into a hole in the budget, it will put into project funding, which has to be dealt with over the next few years, into concrete constructions. It'll probably be railroad construction, but I don't want to speculate what's going on. In any case, we are actually spinning a debt that, of course, will fall on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, i.e. on transport constructions in other years. I don't want to speculate whether it's CZK 170 billion in the end or less. Personally, I think it's going to be less because I think they're a little big eyes and that the budget isn't going to be filled as it is, but we're going to see that. In any case, it will be tens of billions of crowns that will be inherited in the future. Any minister who will be here or ministers will have to deal with this, I mean, at the Ministry of Transport, and they will have to pay it back, which in the past has never been this way. I said here last time that I might understand if I was gossiping behind both ears, the attitude of the Minister of Finance, who is somehow trying to steer with tricks in the sense of the state budget, but what I don't understand is the position of the Minister of Transport. The Minister of Transport is to defend the interests of the Ministry of Transport, however it must be viewed from the point of view of the overall budget, of course. But I say again, the debt will increase anyway. That means, we're not talking about saving money here, we're just talking about who's gonna fall for it. The Minister of Transport sacrificed the Ministry of Transport. He sacrificed future construction by spinning the debt of this resort. I know you use often, Minister of Finance, but also Minister of Transport, the word that I am a resortist, that this is nothing more than a dusty resortism. It's not that, it's your party's alibi. Resortism would be if you said, as Minister of Finance, that it is impossible to give more than 120, 130 billion to the Ministry of Transport, and the Minister of Transport would still advocate a budget of CZK 150 billion for the SFDI and would go hard for it. That's where I'd understand it, that's resortism, fighting for its resources, and you're saying you can't give him any more. But you behave alibistically, but you nod them to him, don't give him the resources and tell him to borrow money for it. Yes, it will go through the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Finance will, of course, lend it to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So if it was a resortism, if I had to come up with this argument, then it's a resortism, but it's from the Ministry of Finance. From my point of view, it's alibiism. [[9.40 hours]] I take the liberty of speculating. If you, Minister of Finance, were in opposition and we brought this up, you'd rip us to shreds, so I'd just be ears, nothing more, nothing less. You should be right, to be honest. I remember your argument very well when you used to be an opposition politician, a very good opposition politician. You were rational, and for many of these reasons, I have always appreciated your argument. You don't have to answer that question, answer for yourself, how would you behave if we presented this? I understand you don't have a simple situation at all. I understand that we are in an extraordinary time, I understand that, as Minister of Finance, you are fighting for the budget and that in the preliminary plan of CZK 1, 265 billion, which is equivalent to an average of CZK 316 billion of the budget deficit per year, there is no hit parade and that you are trying to reduce this unfortunate outlook in some way, optimize it and so on. I'd understand all that. But you're not dealing with it at the moment. This is not the solution. You're just out of the drawer. And you're moving that commitment to the B drawer, nothing more, nothing less. This has nothing to do with state debt. This is just a game of adjusting the state budget deficit a little bit at the moment, and what bothers me most is that in the future transport constructions will pay for it. Logically, they will have to repay these debts and will have to repay them with the money that the next ministers will give them for transport. I think math is simple in this. So I know you're outvoted me anyway, but I thought it was right to say this in the finals, and if it seems to you that this is too political, too ideological opponentry, please, deny it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u9	Thank you, too. I'll read two apologies. As of 11.30, Mr Aleš Juchelka apologizes for reasons of work, and then within 14 hours for reasons of work, Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes and also cancels the apology for today by Vice-President Richterová. The President of Okamura, Vice-President Dostálová, is now duly applied for with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are meeting over the government's draft state budget for 2023. It loses the sense to operate with detailed numbers because everything has been named a thousand times, criticized, right, left, top, bottom. But this government will not put into material and professional criticism either from its own parties or from government experts. The SPD is rejecting the unprecedented debt of our state by the government of Petr Fiala. We are proposing to redirect the necessary expenditures to our needy citizens and entrepreneurs. The Fialův government, which promised budgetary responsibility and debt reduction before the elections, pushed through the budget deficit of CZK 295 billion, which will in fact be much higher, because the vast majority of experts agree that the collection of a new tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, is far from fulfilling government expectations. The government also increases public spending in the draft budget, but not to help our citizens and companies, but to help the European Union's foreign multinationals and the citizens of Ukraine. The SPD is refusing this unprecedented debt to our state, which is gambling with its future. The government does not address the revenue side of the budget, resigned from the possibility of taxing dividends of multinational corporations operating in the Czech Republic. It also increases expenditure on state bureaucracy for no reason instead of the necessary investigation. I will remind you that in the budgetary perspective for the entire election period of Petr Fiala's government, the five-wheeler, the government is counting on another debt of the Czech Republic on the astronomical and unprecedented 1.2 trillion crowns. It will be hard to dig our children out of this, and the Czech Republic will pay it back for a long time if it even pays off. The state budget is clearly a political decision for the government of Petr Fiala, not a professional decision, even if the government does not intend to discuss it. We should name at least her political and ideal vision of the world from the priorities of the government. Because of the Fialův government, we're going to have record debt in record time. Old boxes don't pay anymore. It's not the right or the left anymore. Here in the House, we have more or less traditionalists claiming some original European values, not EU values, and claiming common sense. Then we have government pelmel from neomarxists to fascinating liberals that unite faith in the all-powerful Brussels absurdistan. That's Petr Fiala's five-calice government. These people live with the belief that Brussels will literally command the wind, rain, and sun. He believes in Green Deal. They believe people have 70 sexes. They believe that the right economic remedy is a massive influx of illiterate economic migrants, preferably from Africa and Islamic countries. They believe that Christmas tree is an insult, and they don't believe that family is a dad and a mom. The only link for the nonsense they believe and which the parties of the Fialův five-calice force are pushing, no matter what the cost, the only link is absurdity. He doesn't know how to discuss things in a factual and factual way. Opponents directly disqualify as cockroaches and other vermin worthy of extermination. The government is jamming a record axe, but not in the name of helping Czech people and companies. Much of the expenditure will go to energy speculators, migrants, to support war and foreign arms companies on extremely overpriced weapons. By the way, American fighters are according to all experts three times as expensive in both purchase and operating, maintenance and repair costs. I might understand that if we chose between North Korea and the US, but we refuse to extend, or the Purple Government refuses to extend, contracts with the Swedish Gripen supplier, with whom we have only the best experience and whose upgraded Gripen fighters would be comparable to those from the US. But the price-performance ratio of the Fialův government just doesn't make any decisions. It is not common sense or numbers that govern the common sense. All the actions of the Fialův Government and the establishment of the budget are led by ideology or lobbying. This is the only way to explain that the government will not put energy prices on the market for producers, for citizens and companies. These companies are absolutely essential, because many companies are already failing and ending. The government is happy to fire 2 and maybe more billions a month to help Ukrajinec, but it refuses to help Czech citizens and companies in a form that does not cost a penny. Of course, for every Czech farmer, butcher, glassmaker, milker, another from the West or Poland will jump in immediately. This is the goal, to eliminate Czech tradesmen, Czech companies and the last remnants of our economy, which have not yet been sold to the West? Is that why the Fialův government wants to eliminate them now on the pretext of war with Ukraine? Prime Minister Fiala, when defending his inaction against ČEZ, operates in the interests of 30% of minority shareholders. What does the Prime Minister say? That it supersedes the interests of foreign companies owned by CEZ shares over the interests of Czech citizens, Czech companies, Czech state. That's for the Prime Minister's immediate resignation, because the person defending foreign owners is supposed to be president of a foreign company, and then it's okay. But if such a lobbyist is the head of the Czech government, then it is treason and violation of the Czech Prime Minister's basic duties. In this context, however, I also noted the views of some Czech minority shareholders who said that they would not have a problem, if the state limited ČEZ's profit to 100 percent and the price of electricity would be up to 3 crowns in exchange for the fact that such an ratio, i.e. a 100% profit, would be guaranteed by ČEZ to shareholders for ten years. [[9.50 hours]] Why is the government refusing this? And why did she choose the most incredibly expensive option of electricity combined with the fact that she would still be paid off by speculators? In terms of both expenditure and income, either ideology or other background interests are clearly decided. And the way I see it from some statements is that expensive energy is caused by the government on purpose, because otherwise it would never have been possible to enforce green madness, and, of course, Američan would never have sold a liter of overpriced shale gas here. After all, on the fact that the United States is making money to import compressed gas into Europe, I pointed out here about a month ago, when the French Minister of Industry complained about it, that they are selling four times the price to Europe and actually paralyzing the crisis that is now in Europe in the context of the conflict in Ukraine. And the government keeps quiet about it, doesn't do anything in this regard, and they're doing some floscules around here. The problem is our citizens who don't have money will pay for it in the finals. The government does not address the revenue side of the budget, resigned from the possibility of taxing dividends of multinational corporations operating in the Czech Republic. This is not just about taxation of dividends, but about the overall reform of control over money spilling abroad. The tide from the Czech Republic is one of the largest in Europe. Foreign multinational corporations are raising around CZK 300 billion a year from the Czech Republic, and this year it is record-breaking. For years, fairer taxation of multinational corporations has also been mentioned in institutions such as the International Monetary Fund or the OECD. And what do the experts from these institutions say? Money flows from poorer countries to richer and more mature countries, so in 30 years no one from the East managed to catch up with the wealthy countries of the West. It's impossible, because from our calluses and money, the rich get rich somewhere else. And it will be until someone from the Czech Government has the courage to tell the economic colonialism practiced by Brusel enough. We are good enough to raise the wealthy West's level, even by indebting ourselves. We actually borrow Petr Fiala's government to improve not only the Ukrajinec, but also the Američan, Němec and residents of other Western countries. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the necessary inquiry into the necessary expenditures, the government, of course, increases expenditure on state bureaucracy for no reason. I don't think I'm going to go back in detail to what happened here yesterday, when the government voted for a new unlimited number of political representatives at ministries, which will cost the state cashier an extra hundred million crowns a year, only to allow political parties, so that parties to the government coalition can suck themselves in, others and others can suck on the public budget and suck it out with a full sip instead of the government helping citizens. You're also here, we voted here a week ago, and we were against the SPD to set up a new office for a billion crowns, where there should be up to 250 employees. It's supposed to be a digitization office, even though there are unions for digitization in ministries and so on. Just other and other news outlets and expensive authorities for exponents of government parties. Members of the SPD have prepared a number of amendments to the State Budget Act. We propose to redirect the necessary expenditure of the state, including foreign, towards our needy citizens and entrepreneurs. We also propose to move expenditure from inclusion in education to support special pedagogy. We also propose, for example, a reduction in contributions to the European Union for payments to so-called solar barons, contributions to international organisations or subsidies to non-profit organisations with a political agenda. On the contrary, we propose increasing support for working families with children, single parents, foster parents, seniors, disabled people, housing support, Czech industry, export or Integrated Rescue System. Furthermore, we also propose an increase in the national budgetary reserve for combating inflation. If the government's five-calice Petr Fiala does not approve of our proposals, then this draft of the state budget will not be supported by the MPs for the SPD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u11	Thank you. Next, Vice-President Dostálová will appear and Minister Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u12	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would also like to say a few words about the draft state budget submitted for 2023. As they say, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Indeed, the current budget deficit of 295 billion does not correspond at all to the reality. The state budget alone envisages revenue of 1 928 billion and unprecedented expenditure of 2 223 billion. I have to stop at expenses for a while. In his first budget, submitted by the Minister of Finance for 2022, he predicted expenditure of less than CZK 1,900 billion. In the budget amendment for 2022, we have moved over 2 trillion crowns, but the year-on-year increase from 2 053 billion to 2 223 billion is really incredible. The National Budget Board also accentuates that expenditure expansion of the public sector continues to take place, which is expressed, for example, by another planned increase in the number of public sector employees by about 8 000 people, probably including the new positions of political deputy ministers, which each minister can have unlimited numbers. Where is the Minister at these moments? Where is the Minister who screams that it is not possible to decide the state budget's money in this way, that there is really no need to create additional levels of hierarchy on individual ministries and actually artificially increase the number of officials? [[Spraying?]] The current government coalition on the revenue side of the budget draws on an extraordinary increase in tax collection due to volatile inflation. Just a few numbers to revive. Annual VAT increase by more than 30 billion crowns. The year-on-year increase in corporate tax from 131 billion to 257 billion, i.e. by more than 125 billion. Year-on-year increase in personal income tax by more than 16 billion. Excuse me? [[He's turning to the news desk.]] Lawyer tax... [[received?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u13	Minister, I beg you, you will be able to clarify this as part of your performance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u14	And I could go on like this. Increase in lottery tax, gambling tax, increase in revenue from collection of other taxes and charges, increase in collection from dividends from state-owned enterprises. This is not enough for the Treasury Secretary, so he's increasing his state budget revenue by an incredible 150 billion, windfall tax and so on. The question is whether he will actually choose them. This budget also includes another CZK 50 billion from the Modernization Fund. Not only legislation at the Czech national level is missing for these funds - and I know that as a former minister - but also the European Commission and the European Investment Bank need to be notified. Whether this is being dealt with, whether anyone is dealing with it, or whether the government coalition is counting on it, we don't have that kind of information. I also have to remember the state funds, because even here, the members of the five-calice are relatively very creative. Part of the debt is transferred to state funds, primarily the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. The debt is much less visible, but it is still a debt. Now I'm going to drop by from the logic of the matter at the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development chapter, which is closest to me. I must say that the Minister is more concerned with the Digital Agency than with the Ministry of Regional Development, because otherwise he would not have allowed him to have CZK 15 million in his housing budget. I really wonder whether the government-level housing crisis, which is here, is perceived by all of us, is that today's young people will not reach ownership by high mortgage interest, whether government members are aware that housing prices in the European Union have increased by 10.5% year on year this first quarter. And guess which country is the most significant growth? Well, you don't have to guess three times, it's in the Czech Republic, where it went up 24.7 percent year on year. This is based on data published by Eurostat's European Statistical Office. Annual growth in housing prices in the EU was the strongest in the first quarter since the end of 2006 and we, the Czech Republic, have CZK 15 million in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development chapter in support of housing. Even as a former minister, I planned spending between 29 billion and 32 billion for this chapter. [[10.00 hours]] But it is fair that I commend the Minister for the year 2022, where he managed to increase his spending to 31 billion even after our appeals. But unfortunately I have to add this, but because the planned expenditure for the year 2023 for the chapter of MMR is CZK 22.5 billion, which means a decrease of almost CZK 9 billion in absolute terms. And this, of course, is something that you can do much less for these funds as a result of falling inflation. But don't worry, Minister, I am here to help you as always, and I tabled an amendment to increase the budget of the MMR chapter by CZK 300 million for housing. I see, it's not much, of course, there's really little money in the housing crisis of 300 million. On the other hand, it would certainly be enough for some quick solution, for example, for a subsidy programme for multigenerational houses, where it would really be enough for little money to divide a lot of music into these multigenerational houses, to help people divide them into separate housing units, and that means helping the housing market immediately. I believe that you will support the proposal under number 1578, this subsidy title will be prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development and will actually allow other young people, but not only young people, but also seniors to live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u15	Thank you. Now Minister Stanjura, after him is registered with priority rights Minister Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u16	Thank you for the floor. If I had to refute every lie, half-truth, inaccurate information, we wouldn't be able to get to the vote today, only a few comments on the speeches that have been made so far. I mean, aside from the series of personal attacks and insults, I barely found a ratio. I'd start with Vice-President Havlíček first. Karel Havlíček, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, has clearly won the challenge of the worst amendment that has fallen to the state budget. Now it's not where he wants to send the 31 billion, it's a matter of debate, and we can debate whether it's better to issue government bonds or a loan from the EIB, and it's a legitimate debate. But where does he get the money from? He did not give himself any work, he takes it from the service of the state debt, in other words, suggests that the Czech Republic not pay interest on its debts. Is this supposed to be a rational debate and a rational proposal? If he had done the job, found it in other chapters, the debate would be rational about what is more advantageous for the Czech Republic, whether a loan from the EIB or the issue of government bonds. Don't be angry with me, Mr Vice-President, through another Vice-President, that is unblemished - as I would say, well, there is no other way - unbridled stupidity. How can you suggest that the state will not pay its debts? You can't be serious? We have mandatorial expenses, and that's the most mandatorial expense. Imagine what would happen if we approved? The Czech Republic will cease paying interest on its loans. I think every citizen, every company knows what would happen if they did the same. And here I hear Vice-President Havlíček would welcome a rational debate. There can't be any rational debate about this. How can anyone suggest that we not pay our debts? And these are not debts under the government of Petr Fiala, but under the influence of all governments since the establishment of the Czech Republic, I note all. So about the proposal... he's basically unvoteable. We will not argue about it, we will vote on it, but whoever supports it says to all who have a loan, a loan: We think that the state should set an example and will not pay its interest. What kind of business is this? To the debate, we're really not stupid enough to hide money somewhere. There's nothing to hide. We are just saying repeatedly that we are conducting negotiations with the EIB. And yes, you're right, it's for project financing. We say, and they know it at the EIB, that if the terms are no better than with government bonds, we won't take the loan and the Treasury will take it. That is why we negotiate with the Minister of Transport as a team for the Czech Republic in the EIB, so we had a visit from the Vice President of the EIB with whom we signed together - Madam Vice President of the EIB, Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport - memorandum. Yes, you're right, the EIB wants to support rail transport in particular, and if it offers us good conditions, we'd be stupid not to use it. If the conditions are not favourable, we will not use this loan. And now to the criticism of how big deficits are this year and next year. So I opened up the medium-term outlook that the government of Andrej Babiš sent here in 2021, what are planned deficits before the crisis, before high inflation, before the war in Ukraine, and let's see what they suggested, I will wait for the Vice-President to pay attention to me. [[Vice-President Havlíček is dealing with President Schiller and is back to the speaker.]] Maybe he's forgotten. Vice-President Havlíček, through Vice-President Bartošek, look at the medium term perspective of your government, where you were Vice-President and the double minister that suggested deficits. Let me remind you: this year 377, we downloaded it, for 2023 362 billion, without the crises that we are experiencing in 2022, and in 2024 343 billion. And you're criticizing us for 295 that it's too high. Yes, it's tall, I agree. I said, if I were to suggest this in January this year, the deficit would certainly be lower. And these comments express the notion that the President of the National Budget Board Mojmír Hampl described so nicely - that is the budget lobotomy. Do not increase taxes, increase spending and reduce deficit. Well, they'll tell you that in third grade it's not possible, it's a assignment that no one will. Do not increase revenue, increase expenditure and reduce deficit. When we roughly counted the proposals of the ANO movement from about half a year, the new expenditures were around a trillion crowns, so that we would know what the reality is. Now, about how inflationary money helps the state budget. Well, it's just not true - 1% of the increased VAT collection far from covering 1% of the increased pension expenditure. So if we talk about inflation money, and I agree with you that inflation is a problem that we need to solve and especially the Czech National Bank, then we must have both sides of the budget. If inflationary income from the law didn't increase mandatorial spending, you'd be right. But those inflationary revenues are not enough to cover the mandatorial expenses that are increasing by law. And by the way, when we're talking about how much... VAT will be 30 billion extra. Look at the chapter of the MPSV - spending in the vast majority of cases, as the year-to-year increases, by 133 billion. What did you propose to reduce these expenses? On the contrary, nine out of ten of your proposals increase these mandatory expenses. So how are we supposed to reduce the deficit? To accommodate you, the deficit is going to astronomical heights. We will come in spring or in the first half with a set of measures that will reduce the structural balance. There's no political agreement yet. I won't be individual... But I have noted the comments of opposition politicians, basically criticizing all the proposals that are in the public debate. I didn't notice, maybe I'm wrong about any of them supporting. So let's see, I look forward to that time, the moment we come up with proposals to reduce the structural balance and the structural deficit, whether the opposition will enrich it, come up with its own proposal, support it or not. We'll see, time will judge us. [[10.10 hours]] Unfortunately, today I don't have a glass - if anyone doesn't understand the proportion of a joined vessel and one glass, it's either misunderstood or deliberate misunderstand. I don't know what's worse. There is no contradiction between economic ministers, there is no chaos in numbers. I know very well what the Minister of Industry and Trade and I have said here since the rhetoric. We said that we had two instruments of extraordinary income for extraordinary expenses and that it depends on parameters. But we have guaranteed that from these two instruments we will accept around 100 billion into the state budget. If one of these revenues is fiscally significant, the other is lower and vice versa. I don't know what's wrong with that. Let us remember the criticism at first reading that we do not have a legislative anchor. We did what we promised here at first reading. Both laws are in the Collection of Laws before the final vote on the form of the state budget. This reservation therefore does not apply. And now I hear it's either not going to pick that much or it's going to pick more. We admit and admit that the uncertainty is a lot, that the estimate of 100 billion is conservative. Finally, we bet on the option that fiscally more significant would be the price cap on producers. These numbers can be much better predicted and estimated. This will be the case from tomorrow, from 1 December, so we applied it on time, this European regulation. And logically, if you put a price on producers, they won't have higher excess profits, and so there will be a lower selection of windfall tax and vice versa. Who doesn't understand or understand? I don't understand. How can anyone not understand that? It's not that complicated, it's quite simple. So the main reservation at first reading that it is not legally anchored, unlike the digital tax, is no longer valid. It's already legally anchored. The president signed it, and I didn't check it, but I think they announced on Monday that he signed it, and I assume it's already in the Collection of Laws, and from tomorrow, the law is effective, which sets maximum prices for electricity producers by source. So we're not worried that the money wouldn't be collected. But what's important - what we're going to use the money for: compensation for households, small, medium-sized firms, and large firms. And we've been listening to examples from abroad all year round. In many cases, it turned out that they were just headlines, comments, plans that eventually did not find any justification in the relevant legislation of a particular state, or that it did not lead to the objectives that those instruments were supposed to lead to. I will not criticize other states' decisions in the tax area from the rhetoric. Fortunately, the tax issue is essentially in addition to partial harmonisation, in particular indirect taxes or certain excise duties, matters of national legislation, and I think it is not correct for a member of the government of a Member State to criticise tax decisions. But we can compare the results. I think that these problems are solved by countries - high inflation and high energy prices - and different countries are using different instruments, and it is not true that we are the last, slowest, least help, it is simply not true, and who wants to find the data. Yes, when I find one particular way of helping, one concrete measure, in each of them a different state can be more successful or generous than the other. But, for example, when we look at GDP aid, the Czech Republic is in the first third of countries that provide the highest aid to GDP. Those are the facts. I am still saying, let us wait for the final accounts of 2022 of all European budgets. We have Eurostat, I think none of us will question Eurostat numbers, and then we can go back to the debate and compare which measures and how effective they were. I'm saying the two problems are common. Of course, this is a more detailed debate, there is another energy mix, a different starting point, so there is still time for the final evaluation. But it's not all as black as the opposition has been painting and predicting all year round. It's like you're looking forward to these crises! How many strong words have we heard here? Take a look at the log of what you've been saying, what's going to happen by December - it didn't happen. I see Mr Brabec, by any chance, so through the Vice-President, do you believe me when I said there would be enough gas? When I said it here a few months ago, it was questioned from the opposition benches. And we have enough gas - if you have enough, you can solve the price. If you're short, there's just no point in solving the price, because we've still heard here which factories you turn off first? None. No businesses will shut down by the government, no businesses will restrict access to energy. And I think this is good news for the Czech economy and Czech entrepreneurs. [[A unique round of applause from the YES benches.]] It's a good thing we agree on this, I think there are things that go beyond a party duel of coalition versus opposition or vice versa. I wanted to document in my short speech that the budget is realistic. Yes, we're not reducing deficits as fast as we imagined a year ago, you don't have to push us. We know what crisis came, how we reacted. But I read your planned deficits. Where's the consolidation you planned before the crisis? So let's say there was no crisis, okay, you wanted to consolidate at 20 billion a year! I'll tell you again, if I find it, I don't know from my head, but 377 in 2022, 360 something, I don't know exactly now, in 2023 and over 340 billion in 2024. And you're going to tell us that we're not consolidating enough? If you were planning a deficit of 150, 100, 150, 200 billion lower than our government, then you would - you always have the right to criticize, I don't take it - you could be a credible alternative to better management of the state. But you represent an alternative to worse management of the state. Yes, that's a clash between the right and the left, I'm not questioning him. You believe in more redistribution, more spending on the state, we believe more in individual responsibility, whether citizens or companies. But we have approved the basic parameters for budgetary measures. We will vote on the proposed changes to the budget. I'm just reminding you, we really can't leave a $40 billion government debt service. If anyone thinks we can, I recommend a brief internship with the Treasury Department. Those people in charge of government debt will certainly explain it to you. Nor can we have -9 billion in the government's budget reserve if we comply with all the amendments that have been made. And I know it seems strange to you, but our government works as a whole and as a team. We are discussing the budget as a whole, as a team. All ministers are discussing all chapters so that someone is not privileged or disadvantaged, and we have also sought solutions that all members of the government have supported. And wonder for the world, you're always being ironic and saying five-calice, and I don't know what everything - all five government parties, ministers of all five government parties have approved the draft budget. You had one confessed and one unconfessed coalition party, that is, the Socialists and the Communists, and you went to the government with the fact that only one party approved the draft budget. Is that legitimate? It is, but our proposal is much fairer to all the authorities. Yes, any resort could imagine that it would have higher expenses. On the other hand, the nearly 300 billion is a really high deficit, which I do not make light of, nor do I take lightly. But the consolidation plan will be presented, and it will be far more powerful than the one you put forward. And it's not a lie. It's the House press, it's black and white. [[10.20 hours]] The last brief comment on the Modernisation Fund and your concerns as to how this needs to be discussed in Europe. Well, you're right. Take a look at House Press 154, Vice-President Havlíček, through Vice-President Bartošek. You filed him as an MP, actually the same one you filed as Babišův's government. See how many sentences you have there about how it needs to be discussed. How many steps have you taken in this activity when it was a government proposal, not just the MPs? I'm not making it easy. We know how this is discussed, and we're working on it. And you wrote it in black and white, you didn't do anything in that hearing, and now you're lecturing us and criticizing that we haven't negotiated it yet. Yes, it's not easy, we agree on that. It's possible. If this is not possible and you believe that this is not possible, why have you twice filed a bill that actually solves this problem without discussing it in Europe? Okay, that can be done in the context of a hearing, I agree with that. So by filing the bill twice, once as a government, once as an MP, you were actually documenting that this approach is possible if you were serious about the bill. And in that, we agree that the procedure is possible. That it is not easy, I think that we and you are aware of this, even though you have written as well - there is one sentence about the European Commission, perhaps two, and now I have looked into this House press 154. It wasn't the Minister of the Environment, it was former but former Minister of Industry, Transport, Trade and the like. So it's solvable, it's not gonna be easy, but it's not an impossible situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. I note one point of fact, here is Vice-President Havlíček, and then there are three priority rights, Minister Bartoš, Prime Minister Fiala and President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u18	Thanks for the explanation, I'll just take the two minutes. You, Minister, are a master of words, but you're not going to the point. 1 265 billion... On my part, it wasn't entirely fatal criticism, I even said that I realized that you didn't have it easy at all, I said the arguments. But to argue, Minister, what we were planning sometime a year ago... After all, we all know that, on the one hand, we did not know what we were going to be burdened with, on the other hand, what extraordinary income will be, whether from VAT over CZK 100 billion, whether the dividend from ČEZ or the increased tax that it plans for 2023 or 2024. These are objective facts, so it's already waving the dead maid to discuss what anyone had planned some year ago. As for the headline, please, I could remind you here how you argued headlines from the German and Austrian newspapers at the time of the covid - it's also in the past. And basically, you're probably right about the amendment, but that's not what I was going to say. In fact, in the budget reserve, if I'm not mistaken, you have 12 billion crowns, so where are we supposed to get it? The substance you haven't answered is why does the Department of Transport have to pay it back when it's entering the state debt anyway, and that's why it's going to have to put a little less on the transport department in the future? That's pretty simple, and that's what bothers me. And then let's figure out where the money comes from - I'll take it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u19	Thank you. Another factual remark from the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u20	I'd like to ask Vice-President Havlíček how he got the idea that we're indebting the Ministry of Transport? [[Note of Vice-President Havlíček off the microphone.]] No, not even SFDI. The partner for the EIB is the Czech Republic represented by the Ministry of Finance. You really think we're gonna take this money at the expense of transport infrastructure? We're looking for a cheaper financial instrument, that should be in the common interest. I said we'd use it if it was more advantageous than the issue of government bonds, nothing more, nothing less. And by the way, that medium-term view, it's not a piece of paper, I said it in the first reading. You allowed contracts that were not covered in the medium term to be signed during your operation at the head of the resort. This means that the volume of contracts that have been signed for your activities did not correspond to what you have written in the medium term. And the moment the contract is signed, I consider it a mandatorial expense, and it can be calculated. Yeah, not for the crown, not for one million, but there's a plan - many buildings are two years, three years, four years, and in contracts you have the amount of expected drawdown of this investment money. And you didn't even get the job to add it up, and without starting a single new action, just signed volume of work to be allocated to the SFDI and the Ministry of Transport. So we inherited an internal debt, it's true. If we used your numbers, we wouldn't be able to continue construction. It's for the economic committee or the SFDI, I'm sure they'll give you, if you want, a detailed analysis, a contract after a contract to show you that fact. And I don't think that's how you budget. If I make a deal, it's a mandatorial expense. And we know there can't be uniform treaties, it's no surprise. So that's the thing that was just missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u21	Thank you. There were two further factual points, first Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Vice-President Havlíček. You've changed the order, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u22	I'll respond right away. After all, it's a medium-term perspective, a preliminary outlook, and, plus, if you look at what's going on for contracts now during this year or at the end of the year, and you add it up, I don't want to be a nip, but if we did, then the question is, was it or wasn't it? But in any case, even if you found some contradiction there -- plus we did it in the covide era -- you had six months at least to get Minister Kupka to come up with what he really needed. You know that, Minister, that Minister Kupka came forward with it sometime in June, when you presented him 94 billion, he agreed to the 94 billion. At that point, it was found that it would take significantly more, up to 150 billion crowns, so you started to quickly deal with how you would do it. In the end, then, you gave him good riddance for at least 30 billion crowns for the 121 billion crowns, and the rest you said: that is how it must be handled through the European Investment Bank. And yet let's not hide it here, Minister, you will transfer the loan to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, which will be repaid. So why didn't you leave it in the budget, right into the state budget deficit of 30 billion, and it could have been settled, okay? But you were supposed to cover it up just so that there should have been 325 billion crowns in regular order and there didn't have to be anything to do with it, but you wanted to reduce the optical deficit of that budget, that's the only reason why you did it. Well, let's at least be fair about this and let's just say it. Yeah, we made it a little optimized, but it's gonna have to pay for the traffic. That's it, nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u23	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Kolovratník, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u24	Thank you. I dare to respond to the Minister of Finance's speech. He certainly knows very well as the former mayor that the basic and most important document is always the budget, it is the basic cook who then follows all the resorts, all the organizations in the following year 2023. He said here that he thought the budget was realistic, but he didn't tell us at the same time - because I always say that the most important part is the revenue part, if I raise and say that the revenues will be higher, and then they're not, so it's a huge problem and, of course, all the things that are in the revenue part must then be fulfilled - and I still don't know where the funds from the Modernization Fund are, and where did the law approve them to be receiving the state budget? At the same time, the Minister of Finance said that all ministers are in the state budget chapters. We here today approve the most important law of the year and see for me how many ministers are here at third reading when we pass the law? I don't see many, one, two, three... I think that this government has the most ministers - and I still dare say, in the history of the Czech Republic - 18 ministers and I simply believe that when such a law is passed, ministers should be here and should listen to opposition and government MPs, because that is really the most important law. So even though they are at your hearing, I think, above all, they should be here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u26	Hello, good morning, colleagues, colleagues. I must respond to the debate, the shooting between Minister Stanjura and Vice-President Karel Havlíček, the debate about the $30.7 billion. In the meantime, I'm gonna keep it until my speech, which I have in the proper debate, and I'm gonna follow up on Karel Havlíček, because we really see there that doesn't add up to what's supposed to be in every accounting, he's got to give - he gave, the budget of the SFDI and the big state budget. I'll talk about that in a minute. What I want to say now and what I don't like about this argument, through the President to Minister Stanjur, is rhetoric - the best defense is to attack and pick up on the medium term. Please, let's be fair and fair to each other. The SDV model - the medium-term outlook - is the same, not now that we or our previous government have introduced it. Minister, he was already at the time when you were the minister, sometime since 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. It's always done the same way, by putting into the fund, by putting in the plan actions that we know will be contracted, those big infrastructure projects, whether they're for one, for two, for three years -- you mentioned that, we know -- and what he knows at that point, that's what's planned for the medium term. You, Minister, were on the SFDI Supervisory Board. You never questioned it when you were there for the opposition, and now it's all wrong? Did we just find out that the medium-term outlooks are getting bad? That's an unfair argument, and it's not true what you're saying here. They're still doing the same thing, nothing's changed since you were a minister. So please don't use this argument as a defense against us. [[Your time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u27	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u28	For Mr Kolovratník, I have not questioned the methodology for preparing medium-term expenditure frameworks, expenditure, in any way! I was just saying that what was already known wasn't rejected from those contracts, that's all. And that doesn't correspond to reality. We have documents for that, because, of course, when the Department of Transport came up with the fact that it needed 150 billion, we wanted to know very closely. And I'm saying that if we used a medium-term number, not only would we not start any action, we'd have to stop the action. And I think when those contracts are signed, I say, in my understanding of the world, it's a mandatorial expense. That's how I feel. So look when the last government approved the medium-term outlook. If so, ask SFDI and the Ministry of Transport for a detailed schedule of these events and you will see that the sum of the contracts concluded was lower than the total amount allocated. And that's the problem I was talking about. I didn't question the method of creation at all and that all the circumstances were not known. But if I have contracts, I know the number, it's already a mandatorial expense, and it should be projected there! That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u29	Thank you. Let me welcome you all from this position, and since I don't see any more factual comment - I look, it's not here - we can move on to the next one. Mr. Vice-President of the Government of Bartoš applied for priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u30	Thank you for your word. Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament, I would also like to comment on the final discussion of the budget for 2023, and before I mention some of the pirate or gestureary priorities that have been negotiated and which I think will lead to an improvement in life in our country, I would like to briefly remind you of the conditions under which this budget was created. Two factors strongly influenced the form of the budget. Firstly - let us not say otherwise - it is an inheritance that has been dragging for several years and which has actually been left to us by the previous government in the budget that has been approved before, in the structural deficit that has arisen, but also in the way that the budget for 2022 has been proposed. I was looking for an appropriate analogy. I was thinking a novel from Edgar Alan Poe Raven, where he says "never more, never more." I don't know if it's a hit, maybe it is, maybe it isn't. So "never more" and we're trying to change that, we're trying to get out of it in a way that's adequate to the current state. And remembering the conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office, which evaluated the Czech Republic's economy and YES, former Minister Schillerová, in 2021, this report said that it was a record deficit of the state budget, where the Czech Republic had an extremely slow pace of economic growth compared to the countries of the European Union, but the fastest debt. For me, it was also quite problematic in this report to find that a large part of the free money, which also went into debt, was not actually released in connection with the solution to the impact of the covido pandemic in the Czech Republic. And the bonus we were given was a structural deficit of CZK 200 to 220 billion. And to me all the time, even when I meet people, it seems to me that they're not entirely clear about the nature of the problem of what a structural deficit is. These are just the costs that this state has to make to make it work at all. This is money that is for debt for mere operation and, as such, you are dealing with it as a starting point for drawing up each budget. Of course, the structural deficit can only be dealt with by reforms, relatively sophisticated, whether it is pension reform, so it is an effective tax package or package that we will represent on the basis of NERV recommendations, but otherwise it is money that you have to spend at the moment to make the state and its services work. That's the first problem, the one thing we have to deal with when we draw up the budget, and we fought it. And, of course, the second factor - and it always sounds here from opposition Members and Members, but as if it were a factor that is not important or not relevant - but the second factor that strongly intervened in the Czech Republic's budgeting, quality of life, operating costs and individual resorts - is, of course, Putinův's invasion of Ukraine and the follow-up pan-European security, energy and price crisis. This is what we had to respond to this year in the interests of citizens and companies, and it is evident in the budget that was this year, it is seen in the draft budget for next year, because let us not argue that next year's crisis will go away in a fundamental way. The crisis is not going to go away, and if the state were to let people fall into executions, it would not reflect the situation in the social area, in the pension area, it would not solve compensation in the event of a reduction or active aid to companies, so it would have far worse consequences than at some point in time to have a temporary increase in spending. And I actually see here, and I will not use the analogy of Minister Stanjura, that on the one hand there is talk of the need for massive investments in the initial projects, as if they were not going to collapse, as if the work didn't cost more, on the other hand there is talk of: Maximally increase aid to those, here the one-off, add one-off payments, and on the other hand, there is a deficit in the state budget, which is lower than the proposed state budget deficits! Therefore, in these two critical moments of structural deficit and crisis, which is reflected in almost all areas, I think that the budget is designed in a balanced manner, and I say the other, we have to work with expenditure, we have to work from the revenue side. I will talk about this later - it has already been mentioned here with my previous speakers. I would perhaps like to highlight some of the pillars and priorities on which the budget for 2023, in the context of an extraordinary crisis, which calls for extraordinary spending. And when I looked at the total sum of extraordinary expenses going that way, it's up to CZK 200 billion. And these are things that concern the social field, these are things that concern health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, defence, and, of course, there are other key areas that affect the quality of life in our country - now I will speak for the pirát - which we are pushing very hard. It is education, it is housing - I will respond to Vice-President Dostálová subsequently, it is the development of regions and it is digitalisation, but also competitiveness, energy self-sufficiency or nature protection. [[10.40 hours]] And the money that goes that way is definitely not the money thrown out the window, it's the money that helps invest in our future. When we talked here about how the Ministry of Education's budget needs to be designed and proposed, there has been an increase in the final budget debates, both in the field of universities, there has been an increase compared to the original proposal in the field of secondary schools, and in the case of education in the last negotiations with Pirates and Mayors, we have negotiated an additional increase in the budget, and the proposal here is, into education by 1.1 billion to support measures of a personnel nature, such as in the case of the necessary assistants of teachers and others. For me, the question at the Ministry of Local Development is absolutely crucial, and it is a question of affordable housing and improving conditions in the regions. I would just like to respond - of course, those funds that go into housing, and I do not know what chapter the Vice-President of the House of Dostálová specifically mentioned here, but the fact that there is somewhere 15 million in housing and as an ultimate investment in housing development is not true. There's billions there, and we're counting on billions more. Then I'll say some examples that go into the construction itself, go through the SFPI fund on infrastructure preparation, brownfields, there are things in cohesion funds. Only to the Ministry of Regional Development agenda, where the last programming period of European funds is being overturned and the new IROP is starting, in this year the expenditures are being designed to around CZK 22.5 billion and almost 6 billion of which are purely state budget expenditure, 16 billion of which constitute EU budget expenditure and financial mechanisms, more than 16,5 billion are also total revenue, and compared to 2022, the total expenditure of MMR on national subsidy programmes is being increased in 2023 - there is CZK 2.1 billion there and we will announce calls and new commitments in favour of beneficiaries, even from those - and this is the mentioned SDV 2024, where there are another 3.1 billion to national titles - so basically this year's call is only in national titles. And probably the thing that should be heard here and sometimes bubbles, the fact that at some point you announce a challenge, or even conclude a contract, does not mean that they are also financially fulfilled in a given year. So if you're doing a project that goes on for more years, the question is, and I think it's important to look at the revision of these processes, whether it's absolutely necessary at the moment and whatever it says, to have the money drawn in the budget that's not going to be drawn up that year, then they remain in unused spending, but from the state budget point of view, they are immediately - as I mentioned in the structural deficit - deficit of their nature, thus falling into government debt management. So let's actually plan so that the money is... that the money -- Mrs. Schillerová here is shaking her head -- that the money that lies in my account, which is beyond what is being granted, so... [[President Schiller is speaking with Mr Faltynek.]] Okay, I'm not gonna be here to comment... so you don't see it on screens. So please, I don't know why I'd be dealing with money in a bill that doesn't do any performance in a given year, it's eating them up in inflation. Indeed, money needs to be covered by the obligation it creates and have money in time to meet these obligations. I will just return to this - in the national titles of CZK 5 billion, I consider this part very important, because national subsidy programmes are crucial for cities and municipalities, they help to complement, for example, European funds, which are considerably richer by their nature, and by using the criteria that the Ministry of Regional Development can set, then they can target more precisely. About housing support, I mentioned it, and it's another press. There's about a billion available on SFPI 2023, and there's another billion in SDV. The availability of housing is absolutely crucial to me, however, the way in which it was invested through the housing fund, when it was aimed at concrete realization of family houses or My construction programme or in the form of social housing, seems somewhat unhappy to me. The first instrument was about individual support, and here I think it was almost a genius way for any money that goes into housing to be able to declare the creation of housing, and it actually originated, but in helping individuals or families actually as a proxy mortgage product managed by the state. I would like SFPI, the Ministry of Regional Development, to finance available housing for emerging projects, community projects for housing houses. And I would also like to do that - and at this point we are finishing - a component that will actually work, which will also be under SFPI, will allow for the construction of available housing in several regimes, and we will not look at statistics on how much has been exhausted from the Social Housing Construction Programme - 16 percent, but we will see where we will still get more money, which in a system that will really support housing in cities and municipalities, we will only look for other resources, which we will actually match there as in the Christmas candy mill, and it will create an environment for the creation of new apartments and housing houses in municipalities right across the Republic. After all, in this respect, we are also finishing up a component that will claim several billion in the National Recovery Plan to support the creation of available housing. Of course, it's not just apartments and apartments, but it's also a question of investing in infrastructure preparation, things that go into brownfield preparation, networking, and more, which, of course, we're counting on in those packages that they're not just apartments and apartments. Another question that Mr Okamura, President of the SPD, surprisingly raised here, was the issue of the digitalisation of the state administration, namely the Digital and Information Agency. We have made it quite clear that digitalisation is our priority, and in the government's programming statement, I quote: "We will create a strong central authority with the necessary powers in the areas of digitalisation, which will have a strong mandate towards public administration, its established and contribution organisations. We also say that such an institution will be equipped with additional budgetary powers in order to be able to promote actively effective, safe and sustainable digitalisation across the public administration. This is the DIA Digital and Information Agency. And now only briefly to her budget. The total expenditure in the Czech Republic for digitization from the state budget is CZK 23.2 billion. pan Okamura, but some of the other mentioned budget of the Digital and Information Agency is 1.8 billion, including - and this is important to say - basic registers and central systems. So the 1.8 billion is 8 percent of the total cost of digitization, but it is necessary to emphasise that when someone is doing this, they see it at first glance that the 1.8 billion is not extra money, but it is money that is now transparently labeled. It's the money from the Home Office chapter to support those central systems. And only - and I stress this - 151 million is the cost of new agendas, jobs and competences, which is only 0.67% of the total cost of the state's IT budget. So in order to develop digital priorities, to provide people with quality services, of course, we need to keep this agency in check and control those processes, so that we can generate savings in uneconomic procurement, in the development of a system that only costs us on the licenses of a huge amount of money, hundreds of millions, I dare say, for their development annually. I think it's the right way. [[10.50 hours]] In order to address those priorities and to continue to develop them, and at the same time to address the issue associated with the crisis, it is important to address the revenue side of the budget. After all, this year, we finally presented with the government a response to the increase in energy prices in the context of the energy crisis, whether it was the original proposal that we brought, and finally the government agreed on it, windfall tax, although the final parameters were still given some changes, but it was Minister Stanjura, who in that combination guarantees that the money used by the state for compensation will be a combination of instruments that are collected locally, for that very reason thank you very much. And we are following a recommendation from the National Economic Council of the Government, not in a way of chocolates - choose from proposals on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, but they are now meeting both the expert groups of individual parties and the representative groups of ministries on the very appropriate measures that we would like to represent in the middle of next year and should have a major impact on the problem of the structural deficit that I mentioned at the outset. So much for me, thank you. Further steps on these changes will be introduced gradually as we discuss individual NERV proposals and consolidate proposals for budget changes that will be effective after next year, as approved by relevant legislation or relevant standards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u31	Thank you. With a factual point, Vice-President Dostálová is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u32	Thank you for the floor. Only very quickly in response to the Minister. Well, Minister, I really didn't make up $15 million. All you have to do is open a chapter book and you'll know that you have CZK15 million to live in. And I would just like to make a little comment, you've spoken here, but of course we're going to get to that point, State Investment Support Fund, so I'd just like to get out of your documents: the longest line is your own housing, which you've canceled because it's useless, so you can see that it was the most funded title under the State Investment Support Fund, and I think, on the contrary, that the amendment that I've tabled today can help you in that there's really a need for a quick solution here, because it's your available housing that you're talking about, if you want to not identify it, because if you don't go under GBER, according to public support, you have to identify and you know very well that it's a question of seven, eight months before you manage it, so in 2023, there won't be any drawing. Let's talk about the multigenerational houses, divide them into separate housing units and help young people to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u33	Thank you. Another point of fact is registered by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure thank you for speaking with the Minister of Regional Development. I will certainly comment on the fact that we do not agree in any way with the establishment of the Digital and Information Agency, which is to be established from 1 January next year. Even the budget doesn't fit, because when you say budget numbers here, 1.8 billion within those systems, the DIA should eventually be set up on January 1st, but the transition of employees should eventually be from April 1st. I am really convinced that if you want digitization, take it under the Ministry of Regional Development, change the law of competence. What I haven't heard from you all along as Vice Prime Minister for Digitalization are data boxes. It was you who pushed through the last term of office - and you fought very hard for it as chairman of the Public Administration Committee - to automatically set up data boxes. To this point, I have not heard a word from you to comment on this - what we will approve on Friday, and what you have enforced, so we will cancel it. At the same time, I am convinced - 200 people who are to come from the Ministry of the Interior, plus 120 other places that will be created within the Digital and Information Agency, so to the present moment we have only seen a non-discriminatory tender, which has therefore been completed - I do not expect to learn any information about it - and also the bet that my colleague králíček said here, who will probably be President of the Digital and Information Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u35	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr králíček. Before I pass on the floor to the honourable Member, I shall read my apologies. He apologizes from 11.30 to the end of working hours for work Král, Mr Václav and Mrs Voborská Milada, for work reasons, apologizes from 16.30. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u36	If Mr. Král apologizes, at least králíček will come. Madam Vice-President, Minister, well, it won't let me react to your performance either, and I don't want to repeat what my colleague said. I love the way you guys talk about this agency in superlatives, but she's not, she still has to go through the Senate and eventually she can come back to the House, she just isn't, and she may not be, as of 1 January. And then what are the employees gonna do? They're living in some kind of uncertainty right now. We're just talking about an agency to save digitization in the Czech Republic, which is supposed to accept another 120 people, which will cost us about 300 million a year, but we haven't set it up yet. She's just not there yet, and she's not even in the budget. And when I see the amendments, then I wonder how the finance minister will be looking for the 300 million for the next year to give them to you, plus more money for the establishment. You're talking about the virtual world. I understand you may be dazzled by Metaverse, you've done him a good speech, but this isn't Metaversi, this isn't a virtual world, so talk about what you've got, but it hasn't passed the Senát yet. There may be amendments, it can all be delayed. You're bragging about something that hasn't been born yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u37	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u38	I'd react. The selection procedure did not end, only until - for all I know - the number of applications for a possible DIA chief is about fifteen or sixteen at the moment. The tender will be held. I just wanted to point out that the government then appoints the director on the recommendation of the vice prime minister for digitization, and I'm making a tender so that this person is chosen and is the best. I wouldn't have talked about the DIA here if Mr Okamura hadn't stepped out here, through Mr President, and he wasn't talking nonsense about the Agency's budget. I only said that from the point of view of the agency itself. It is important to talk about it for a simple reason, because there is a budget chapter in the amendment, which is agreed with the Ministry of Finance, and money transferred there, of course, as soon as the agency is created, will be, and also costs related to registers subsequently deliberation, which is dealt with, of course, by the Delimation Commission at the Ministry of the Interior. After many letters, or two, I met with representatives of relevant trade unions of the Ministry of the Interior. The situation of collective agreements, the creation of trade unions and other important for employees of things, including ensuring their existing benefits, of course, in process 1: 1 it could be more or less lossless and the whole department, which is responsible or the team, for personnel questions is in place. About the data boxes. Not even in the previous legislation, and just read it, there was nothing about the obligation of data boxes. There was only a technical process, so-called opt-in, when - and not for all - but when using a bank identity will automatically set up a mailbox, not the obligation to use data boxes for physical persons, and then it can be unsubscribed. The proposal coming from the government changes the process. Thus, using banking identity, we assume the literacy of a bank identity user - perhaps we do not dispute this, this one will be offered to create it, so it reverses the process. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Because I don't see anyone with a factual note anymore, I have two priority rights here. First up, Prime Minister Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken more about the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, which we will be voting on at third reading today, during the first reading. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has repeatedly given a very thorough and detailed reasons for it and other members of the government have also spoken about it. We listen very carefully here all the time, we listen at first, second reading and we do this in third reading, suggestions, opinions and criticism of the opposition. And, of course, all the voices that are being heard here in the Chamber of Deputies are being listened to closely by the government. As you can see, colleagues have repeatedly responded to them in individual readings. I think that this has not always been the case and that it is right that our government is taking such an important law to the state budget. [[11.00 hours]] Our proposal went through both first and second readings. You have contributed dozens of amendments to it, which may be reflected in the final form in some of the sub-areas, but I would like to say for the government that we do not support and plan any significant transfers of money between chapters. We stand by the draft budget in the form that you could have become acquainted with. Last time I performed here at first reading, I said a number of key arguments why I believe that the budget that our government is presenting to you is not some ideal situation that we may all wish for, but it is definitely the acceptable, realistic and, in fact, the only right choice at the moment. I will not repeat these arguments again in detail, although criticism has repeated itself in some ways, but let me briefly summarize here what situation we are in, reminding you of what we are voting on today and why the budget has this form. With the proposed draft budget, our government is trying to make use of all available possibilities to ensure that Czech citizens and companies are given as precise and as extensive assistance as possible in an emergency situation as possible, so that we simply provide the Czech Republic with the greatest chance of long-term development. And that's the goal of the help we provide. I called the proposal when I spoke to the budget at first reading, the war budget, and I talked about the fact that it was actually the result of crisis management. Of course, this has not changed at all, and the critical nature of this budget prejudices its form, its priorities, but, of course, also brings its limitations. For 2023, we are proposing a state budget, which estimates revenue of CZK 1 928 billion and expenditure of CZK 2 223 billion. The forecast balance of the state budget will therefore reach CZK -295 billion. Yes, it's big money, but we're getting two very important things through these funds. First of all, time for a systemic overcoming the energy crisis, but above all, and this is an important, inconsequential level of security for our companies and for our citizens, the certainty that they will manage this crisis. That is why we have also reserved over 200 billion crowns to help people and companies, and 100 billion crowns of which go to the ceiling of energy prices. Just a reminder, with power electricity of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour and with gas of CZK 3 per kilowatt hour including tax. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when I speak of aid and support, receives more than CZK 141 billion in addition to contributions and benefits for citizens, for those citizens who are most at risk of the current crisis. Only the valorisation of pensions alone will require more than CZK 93 billion, which means, among other things, that the average old-age pension will grow to about CZK 19,500 per month next year and reach almost half the average wage by the beginning of the year. These extraordinary expenditures are needed, these are expenditures to help citizens and businesses, and the government is addressing these expenditures with extraordinary short-term instruments in order to avoid imposing some tax burdens here, which would be called indefinitely. That's why we use extraordinary short-term instruments. We compensate expenditure with the planned income of approximately CZK 100 billion, resulting from the tax on unexpected profits of large companies, which profit without own contribution from the increase in interest rate and from the increase in energy, i.e. windfall tax, war tax, and at the same time from the levy of revenues from the sale of electricity above the set limit over a megawatt hour, as we also agreed at European level. Our House approved both mechanisms at the beginning of November, so if there were any - and in the meantime, another approval process has been passed - so if, in the meantime or before, there were any doubts as to whether we can rely on them, on these revenues, in the budget, I can assure everyone that this matter is resolved and that the budget is built on very solid foundations, just as we promised you and as the government planned. Suggestions passed the Senate, published in the Collection of Laws. We therefore know that the windfall tax will apply from 1 January 2023 for a period of three years and this is how we must approach it. Just as the nature of the budget has not changed since the first reading and the need to protect our citizens and, of course, the need to respond to current crises, neither has our determination to invest in the solution of long-term projects of the Czech Republic changed since then, and this is important. Our priorities include investment in defence, security of the Czech Republic. So we added almost 23 billion against this year to modernize the army so that we could respond to current risks. This brings us closer to the promised limit of 2% of GDP in defence, which we have not been able to achieve for years here, we will exceed 1.5 percent of GDP in expenditure in this area next year, and these expenditures will continue to grow in the coming years. Investments in transport infrastructure, where we send an extra 29 billion, are equally important. We will achieve record-breaking, even in this difficult time we will reach the record budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which will have CZK 150 billion at its disposal. For example, money will be used for so much needed construction of new sections of motorways, first-class roads and so on. Transport infrastructure is something extremely important for the future prosperity of the Czech Republic and for us to be a successful country, and we do not forget this priority even in the difficult conditions in which we draw up next year's budget. The last priority I'm going to mention here is investment in education. The Ministry of Education plans to increase the budget by CZK 17 billion. R&D expenses, innovations of almost 50 billion will be record-breaking next year despite the crisis, and I think this is also a good illustration of the importance of investing in our future, not only helping citizens who are extremely important but also investing in the future, in the good future of the Czech Republic. As I have already said, and I am not hiding it, this budget is certainly not what we, as members of the government, would wish for in perfect times, but it is a realistic budget, a budget that will enable us to cope with the crises that we are facing, and in this sense it is a budget that is extremely responsible. It is a budget that will ensure security for the Czech Republic, which will help people overcome the energy crisis, and even allows us, as far as possible, to invest in the future, infrastructure, education, science and innovation. The budget responds to the critical situation, the critical security situation in Europe, and responds to the energy crisis, i.e. the effects that are beyond our control. Yet, he does not forget the most necessary investments. [[11.10 hours]] With what I have just said, that is to say, with this statement that we are responding to the critical situation in Europe, to the influences that are beyond our control, but that at the same time we are investing in the future, we obviously do not want to be satisfied with this statement, and we are doing everything we can to be prepared for the future, that once the budgetary situation... or that we do everything we can to make sure that these crises go away, so that the budgetary situation of the Czech Republic will stabilize significantly in the coming years. We are working on changes that will simplify the operation of the state, abolishing obsolete burdening obligations, agendas, and looking for ways to best save public money. In this context, we are going to have a number of difficult decisions in the near future, and I just hope that those who are criticizing the state budget deficit today will help us to support the difficult decisions that we will make and with which we will come here. We have on the table proposals from experts from the National Economic Council of the Government, which, of course, we will also discuss in detail. Recently, the task force has launched its work, which aims to reduce spending by 70 billion per year by means of effective systemic measures. Its results will be presented to you in the course of next year, of course before the next budget is prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic is in the most complex situation in its modern history. It is natural that the national budget for 2023 corresponds to this. The state budget demonstrates that the situation is serious, focuses on the answers to the current crisis, but, as I said, it has the hope that we will soon return to the original direction, namely reforms, modernisation and balanced public finances. I thank all of you who understand this difficult position and support this budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u41	I have Mrs. Schillerová's application for another one with priority rights. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I have waited patiently because I wanted to respond so that I could clearly tell who I was going to respond to. I'm going to respond to Minister Stanjura, although there were many other performances in the meantime, but I have to, it really takes more time, really wouldn't be enough. I'll wait for the Minister to see me. [[It looks right, where Minister Stanjura talks with Prime Minister Purala and Minister of Transport.]] I'm sure you don't see both, okay. So, Minister, I was listening to what you said here, how you reacted to Karel Havlíček, to us who performed here before you, or after your opening speech, and I wonder if you really believe everything you said here. So you turn around and you have a hole in the State Transport Infrastructure Fund of 30 billion, you turn against Karel Havlíček, accusing him of his amendment. You know you won't support him, the amendment. But we're repeatedly calling your attention to the problem. We wanted to hear how you guys were gonna do it, that's your duty. Your duty is this deficit that you simply created there so that you can artificially reduce the state budget deficit to replace it. I followed the press conference after signing the memorandum with the EIB. There was also a question about the EIB representative, who was asked about interest, and she said that this is still preliminary to discussing it. So I don't know what the subject of this memorandum is, if there's such a crucial thing as interest rates, you just don't deal with it, or at least the limits. So where are you gonna get the money? It's certain, isn't it? You don't have it negotiated, but there's a hole in it, so don't blame Karel Havlíček. That's your job, you're the finance minister, you're supposed to come up with solutions. And if you went to the budget committees as I did, or at least as much as I did as the Treasury Secretary - I hadn't seen you there for a long time - you would have heard the argument that was made by representatives of both the National Budget Board and the questions were answered by the experts of the Ministry of Finance that most of the interest, the interest or the amount needed to serve the government debt is for the debts of 2022 and 2023, because, of course, there were huge interest rates. So please, yes, of course there are some long-term bonds, I'm not going to cover it up, but it's clearly said that most of them are created here in 2022 and 2023. And your criticism or announcement here - I don't know what I would call it - the medium-term outlook for the budgets of the governments of Andrej Babiš. Well, let's compare. Your budget and deficit for 2022 originally, if I'm not mistaken, was 280 billion, the result: 375 billion. Our budget proposal for 2022 was 376,6 billion. Okay, well, I'll give you 1.6 billion, you're better at that, 1.6 billion. And we didn't have that kind of inflationary revenue. We didn't have the revenue you could count on in your planned budgets. And the consolidation plan? It was you who fought in your breasts, how it was made up. I remember what you said: we proposed cuts for 80 billion, I think it was to budget 2021, if I remember correctly. Why didn't you do it when you got to power? Well, 'cause you've been dealing with mandatorial expenses. And today you know that it was only PR, just like PR is your entire budget policy. So, of course, we were planning some budgets within the reality that was within the budget. We couldn't count, and we had no idea what huge inflation would be, how it would all go away. But I don't see any consolidation plan -- a promise again, a promise again, an unreal promise for me, absolutely unrealistic. When I saw the proposals of the National Economic Council of the Government, each of these points has the ambition to fill Wenceslas Square, each one in this crisis. Suggestions that are there - 70 billion. We've heard: we're going to cross out 100 billion, now we're going to consolidate 70 billion. You don't even have a comma. And I'll read to you, if you're so fond of protecting yourself with Mr Hampl and his budget lobotomy, I'll quote you now from the latest National Budget Board report. I quote on the budget: "The National Budget Board notes that it cannot be preferred to achieve formally more favourable state budget deficits at the cost of the conscious unrealisticity of its content, because this is contrary to the purpose and purpose of the budgetary procedure itself. " So it really needs to be read when you refer to them so often, not just picking out the words of someone who suits you. You're saying, yes, we did the two taxes legislation, the president signed it, and you see, you said it wouldn't. At what cost? At what cost did you make it? At the cost of the amendment to the tax package, at the cost of legislative emergency, at the cost of cutting any debate, any debate, any legitimate way to reach these proposals, logically. Don't make excuses for the time being, I've been offering to shorten your deadlines. As I recall, I haven't vetoed any shortening of time here lately. We're just trying to get in touch with you in this regard, but you'd have to go with your skin on the market and show how it's all really going. And you didn't want to do that, so you'd rather wrap it in this coat. [[11.20 hours]] Don't tell me you've put a price on manufacturers. You guys put in charge of the price ceilings, that's a big difference. If you were to put a price on producers, as we have said since February of this year, we were elsewhere today and we didn't have to compensate all of us for our taxes so dramatically. Well, the headlines you're talking about, we've read here - I don't know what you're talking about, the help of Germany is completely real. What did you do as the Czech Presidency to avoid creating such an uneven competitive pressure on our companies that will not be able to compete with it so that such a competitive game is not created here between countries? Well, I don't see anything. And now that you're talking about consolidation plans, I'll remind you of the government's programming statement, the fight against the gray economy. You started by shutting down the EET. You'll hear that from me every time I stand up to this microphone. Every time you hear from me that you've canceled the EET until the end of your days, I mean political. As for other things, taxation of vices. I keep reminding you: how could you even consider reducing your gambling tax? Where do you increase the efficiency of public administration? Today I feel like the government - and as I said yesterday, you have a system, we will look at it at the shadow government, and we will inform you and the public about how quickly you took it - you are fast and operational - the novel you pushed through yesterday through resistance and through the veto of the President of the Republic. I mean an amendment to the Civil Service Act, gradual digitization and so on. How did you use... You've been blaming me for several digital taxes. Okay, well, let me admit something to you, yes, she passed through our government, she was after her first reading, and she was in the budget. I wish you had this far with the taxes, you couldn't have done that. It was 2.5 billion. It's worth it, even after two years, to keep saying it. But at least I did something about it. At least I tried to create some kind of pressure, at least with this national solution that was discussed, the Ambassador of the United States has been behind me for this several times and so on that it is not possible that we must have a global solution. How did you use the Presidency? When I asked you about this the other day on the talk show, you said, "It's only a billion." You always throw some number, that 70 billion, that billion. But work, work, we want to see honest work. The European Presidency - that you are pushing for a European solution, that those companies that have been in business here for over ten years will finally start paying some taxes, unlike those of the Czechs that have to pay - so you have done nothing about it. I'm proud to at least try to put pressure on these companies here, and the 2.5 billion you're blaming me, so I can live with it, because even if they didn't - we took them out of the draft budget, of course - if they hadn't chosen, they wouldn't have put the budget at risk, unlike your 150 billion. And the very last icing on the cake you had in your speech is the Modernization Fund, and he's definitely gonna come back to it again, Richard Brabec. But instead of reacting - you're really a master at this, turning your problem around, putting it back on the counterplay field, so I'm gonna kick it back in your side of the field. I say, you're here to draw attention to our government and parliamentary proposal. Well, yes, we were aware that we needed legislation. How many times have you thrown him down here? You eliminated the government proposal and our proposal, which was here, which we even gave as extraordinary points, and I think we included it in that extraordinary meeting - Richard Brabec nods - so you rejected him here, you refused to discuss it. And today you're asking what we've done for it? No, we're asking you what you did for it. You will answer to us, the Chamber of Deputies, where you have drawn 50 billion in the state budget and on what basis. Now I'm waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u43	Your speech, Madam President, raised a point of fact which Mr Munzar has. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must respond to Mrs Schillerová, by your means, who has compared the draft budget for 2022, or your government's proposals for deficit size initially amounting to 376,6 billion and, following adjustments to our government, 375 billion. Well, there's one crucial thing we need to realize. You proposed the deficit even when there was no mention of the war in Ukraine, the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine, the economic and energy crisis caused by this war, were not to be addressed. There's one thing I have to say here that the 370 billion is already the response to the war, it already contains a large-scale and targeted aid, the combination that we've been talking about for a long time. So you're comparing the incomparable, and it says more about your access to public finances than ours. On the one hand, you are criticizing small savings here, the fact that the government is not saving, but when I look at the vast majority of your amendments, these are not amendments that would look for inefficient spending and replace them with more efficient, for example, help. Most of your amendments, with little exceptions, go to the expense of the government's budgetary reserve. You said here in the first speech that the budget is an economic policy instrument. Yes, and the biggest problem of economic policy is inflation. This is not just about price growth, it is about depreciation of currency value and savings value. There is a restrictive fight against inflation, especially the monetary policy that you have criticized here, but the government must also balance so that it does not have too much expansionary fiscal policy so that the wheels of inflation don't spin, and you, with your speeches... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I'll just finish the sentence. You, with your speeches, call on the government only to expand fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u45	Thank you for keeping time. As I no longer see any application with priority rights, the debate continues with the Members who are on the board. Mr. Richard Brabec is the first to prepare Mr. Kolovratník. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I shall make one more apology. From 10.30 to 11.30 for medical reasons, Mr. Jan Richter apologizes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I will not just forgive myself for a little push. But maybe the word was chosen by accident, because Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura said when I happen to see Mr. Brabec here... Well, if you'd come more often, you'd see me more often, because I'm here almost all the time. But I understand that the Minister does not, of course, walk as often as an ordinary MP, he cannot walk, although I have, of course, been here quite often. You've been talking, Minister, about... [[Minister Stanjura is coming and he says he's watching by accident.]] I happen to be looking - so I'm sorry, if you were looking, it's an honor that you even looked at me. You said too - and that was also a bit of a subject of our debate back then about how we're gonna end up with gas. So I wasn't really talking about the end of the year, if I remember correctly, I was talking until spring. We even said, "Is it really till spring?" I think you're talking about the end of April we're gonna talk about this, so we're gonna talk about it at the end of April. So far, relatively warm winter is helping us. I really do not wish for any crisis to end with me being right, because we certainly do not dispute here that what is in the game goes far beyond any political differences, because, of course, this country, this economy and the economy of the most industrialised country within the European Union in terms of the share of GDP from industry is in the game. So you also talked about the government not shutting down any businesses -- well, they would, Minister, turn themselves off, or shut them down by their owners or gradually restricting them, I guess it wasn't up to the government, and I'm afraid we're already seeing a trend here. [[11.30 hours]] But I'm going back to the chapter now, and the part that I was talking about, and that part that you were talking about, that's the issue of the environmental chapter, and the part that I've repeatedly said since this counter, it's a huge income for next year. These revenues are around CZK 94 billion, which is, of course, an amount that is absolutely unique throughout the history of this resort. And like I said, the birds would be thrilled to chirp, if that were true. But she's really puffed up, and she's puffed up significantly, she's puffed up more than half. You know it, I know it, other people who are dealing with it know it too, and we know that the disputed amount, which is directly stuck with the revenue, of CZK 50 billion, which is, of course, the sum, which is more than half, as I said, the entire revenue of chapter 315, which is the chapter of the State Budget, is just about the amount that should come from the Modernization Fund. And I'm just gonna follow up on President Alena Schillerová, who's been talking about it repeatedly. I have talked about this at least twice, three times in my speeches to the state budget in the first and second reading and on other occasions, that this amount is, where and how it is used or not used, directly calls for it to be, in fact, an amount that is completely removed from the context, has no real basis and is to serve only to reduce the optical deficit of the state budget, because if it were not, that amount would be very likely also in expenditure and, for example, it would go into the very things from which the Modernisation Fund or which the Modernisation Fund subsidises. And these are hundreds of projects for entrepreneurs, for municipalities, for individuals like New Green Savings in the future and so on. But it doesn't matter, because she - and you know it - the extra 50 billion - isn't only planned in 2023, but she's there in the medium term for the years 2024 and 2025, Minister, so there's no 50 billion, there's even 150 billion. And this money is just as bloated as it is, because if we look at the structure and function of the Modernization Fund at all - and you mentioned that here - obviously it's not money, it's not a bagel on a store that this government or this House can take, even if the money comes from the sale of emission allowances and says, "Well, now we like this, so let's put it on this, for example, to compensate for too high energy prices for residents. We just can't, we all know that. This is the European Union's notification, it is the consent of the European Investment Bank, it is a process that can take many months, it can take six months, it can take three quarters of a year, because - and you also know that from the Ministry of the Environment, where you certainly asked about it and you talked about it to the government - it is decided by a certain investment committee that meets, whether I am wrong, once every four months or six months, and there are other states who decide on it, because the Modernisation Point is indeed European and the Czech Republic, although the second most successful is our merit in how much money it has earned, it cannot decide for itself how much of the money it will use. This means that we are really in a situation where we have 50 billion crowns that are not in the State Environmental Fund's budget, after all, we're going to be discussing the budget in a moment, and that means it's hanging in the air. And that's when I repeatedly said that if I had allowed myself to do this as Minister of the Environment during my era, and with that I came to the House, especially you, Minister, because we all remember you as a very competent rhetorician who did not forget to take advantage of any gap, you would hang at the ceiling of this beautiful building like a Zeppelin airship and you would blame us - and rightly, because I can't imagine coming as a minister who should know every crown of his chapter's budget, and somewhere there I casually threw more than half the revenue, and I had no idea where the money would come from. [[Let's hear it for Members of the Movement.]] And I know that if you had the arguments, you'd get out here long ago and stomp me into the ground. But you don't have them, and you can't have them, because the amount actually landed there some kind of deal. And you, too, Minister, have been talking about this - or a few minutes or tens of minutes ago - that it was actually our government's idea. Yes, but there are more differences. Firstly, it has already been mentioned by President Schillerová. First of all, of course, we have repeatedly tried to bring it back to our destinies, the change that would make something like that possible, that is, the amendment to the emission allowance trading law, but the five-calices repeatedly, five-calice, six-times she sent us straight with it and she wasn't even willing to talk about it, which made me a little sad because I think it would deserve the debate, but even some of the representatives of the government coalition asked me how it really is and what could be done about it. And I, the good nature, even advised them, but it didn't happen anyway. So today we're really in a situation where this amount hangs in the air, it's not discussed with anyone. I believe that this is a completely overblown matter, that it is indeed an entirely artificial budget to improve the state budget deficit, because once again - this amount is so extraordinary in size and character that the only one who could do it - and one more thing I would mention - when you spoke about our proposal, you certainly know it, and so you saw that the draft amendment of this law would have used CZK 17 billion in two years, CZK 17 billion! I suspect it was 8 and 9 in 2022 and 2023. But here is proposed 50 billion crowns in one year and another 50 billion crowns in the next year and another 50 billion crowns in the following year. That means we wanted to propose a rerouting of just 17 billion in two years, and we didn't get away with it, and we didn't get away with the discussion, but you're here to propose a rerouting of 150 billion in three years! And that is what bothers me about it, and that is what, of course, is absolutely incredible to me that something like this can come up with in the Chamber of Deputies and pretend that it is something that is justified. That's why I said that whoever's putting it - and I have to say that I embarrassed my former colleagues on the Environment Committee, because they were unable to answer, and it was a bit of a fabulous story about a faucet and a chicken, because everyone always said. Well, he's gonna explain it to you this one, and the other one says, well, I'm not gonna explain it to you, I'm sure this one will explain it to you when it got back to the Department of Finance from the Ministry of the Environment, and no one explained it anyway. So I think it's pretty clear. The amount is really bloated, you don't have anything on your hands right now, it's not approved anywhere. To approve it is not only a matter of this House, or even a government, it is a European matter, it is a matter of relatively long-term, and I really cannot imagine coming up with such a thing, and therefore I also used the fact that such a budget is untrustworthy for me and its promoter is more budget Houdini than a responsible manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u47	Thank you, and your speech raised Mr Babka's factual comment. Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u48	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker Richard Brabec and actually support what he said here. We, on the one hand, were dealing with not only the subcommittee on the financing of life care, where we drew attention to it, but also the Committee on the Environment, when we were discussing chapter 315, the budget of the Ministry of Environment, and unfortunately no one was able to answer that question at all. No one from the Ministry of Environment, including the Deputys. The question also came to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who is also a member of the Committee on the Environment, if it is possible to budget in this way, because, of course, we all know that when we draw up a budget, we should be conservative, we should only count on the revenue that we have in some way supported. [[11.40 hours]] And we know, because I am also the rapporteur of the State Environmental Fund's budget, that all the revenue coming from the Modernisation Fund should flow through the State Environmental Fund and the State Environmental Fund will not calculate this money. How, then, is it possible that we have 50 billion in the chapter that we have nothing to support? We would have to change national legislation that we are unable to change. We would have to have it arranged for the European Commission. We would have to have the notification of the European Investment Bank so that we could count on this money in the framework of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment next year at all. It is therefore, as my colleague Brabec said, a mere reduction in the overall deficit of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Next, Mr Kolovratník is registered, and before I give him the floor, I would like to inform myself that, under the agreement of the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs, the break will be announced immediately after the elections, which are scheduled for 13 o'clock, until 14.30. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u50	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. In the morning I announced this in a factual note, now in my speech I will stand up in more detail and discuss what we see critically and where we propose some correction in relation to the large state budget to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. At the beginning of my performance here, colleagues, I quote something first, maybe with the quote for a moment I will surprise you, quote from the media: "Czech Republic wants to borrow 100 billion for investment in transport. The loan is better than raising the state debt, said the Minister of Transport. He signed a memorandum with a representative of the European Investment Bank. The loan has yet to be approved by the government. We are opening a new chapter with the EIB. We will use the finance to develop transport infrastructure, especially railway infrastructure." And now, ladies and gentlemen and Minister, this is not a media quote from these days, a quote from Minister Martin Kupka or Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, this is a quote from Minister Dan Ťok, who said or took this step in April, it was in the spring of 2018, at the railway conference in Pardubice, which I have been holding there for years. What I want to say with this quote and the introduction - and I am responding to Zbyněk Stanjura: that the state is dealing with the EIB, that it is closing the memorandum, and now it is not meant as irony, in a good way, it is not that new. In fact, you might as well give it back to us that we're now criticizing something we've already done, what we've started with. So, yes, we've really done or done the job with the EIB, tried whatever we call it. We, I repeat, it was in the spring of April 2018, when, in agreement in cooperation with ours, I was able to sign this memorandum with the Ťok at the transport conference in April, then the government approved it. But the devil is really, co-workers and co-workers, hidden in detail, and I think it just applies here winged: not everything is gold that glitters. What's the difference? I'll try... I'm glad he's coming, Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport is coming, and he's gonna listen to me very carefully. What's the difference, the mechanic? This memorandum, the money we've signed and started using since 2018 - I'll give you two specific examples, what's the difference between how we worked with it and what you're proposing now in this draft state budget and budget of the SFDI. It is called blending cally, i.e. investment action infrastructure, typically - illustration - two such events on the main railway corridor from Prague to Moravia near Ústí nad Orlicí, near Brandýsa, or between Velimí and Poříčany. The mechanics of such an action works so that 85 per cent is financed from the European money of the Operational Programme Transport. And the magic of the so-called blending, the subsidy itself, or the equity ratio, about 15 percent, is not financed from national own resources, but from the EIB's loan. And that is the difference that we point out - and Minister Stanjura said it right - I understand where he is going - that the Ministry of Finance will continue to be a partner for the EIB. So at this point, the Treasury is paying back the payment, the loan is paying back, but it doesn't burden the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, in other words, it's not reflected in the state budget balance. Whereas you colleagues, for the time being, want to project that into the balance sheet. And that's the thing that doesn't fit and we're trying to point out. After all, you know very well that the National Budget Board pointed it out in its comments on the state budget, that you are transferring the balance imbalance to the funds. Alena Schillerová quoted it, and there's no need for me to repeat it again. Here I repeat the difference, the core of the poodle, which we have not yet understood, which has not been explained here on the microphone. At this point, we're already working on it. The rezort can do it, he's already tried it, they're so-called blonding calls. But it's not the share that's owned, it's not going through the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, it's actually staying at the Ministry of Finance. And that's what he was asking and what he was trying to show Karel Havlíček in that morning's opening act. Minister Stanjur, through Mr President, I take the arguments in part, I understand them, and I would never criticize them just because now I am in opposition, what you are doing when we started doing it when we started trying. Here I can certainly say that you are going or that you are trying a path that can be good can be functional. But we draw attention to the great risks that we can see there and to which neither you nor colleague Martin Kupka have yet responded. And if I go further in the confusion, as I look into the media, I read another article from Diary N: "The record budget of up to 70 billion will allow the start of major railroad structures. Railway Administration will start many other important events: Masaryk Railway Station, Prague-Smíchov, Prague-Bubny." That's all okay, that's all good. But it follows from the Minuta N server another article is from 19 October, which says: "Ministry of Transport" - I quote - "after all it will not issue bonds that should help finance the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. In the end, additional funding will be provided by the Ministry of Finance, the head of the Treasury Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned on the budget committee. Bonds worth almost 30 billion should serve to maintain further investment expenditure" and so on. So I'm already here to quote these two articles, please respond, and I'll be glad if I get it, if you change the Act on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, and the bonds will be issued by the SFDI, or if it's changed, because the speeches of the ministers so far have been different. From the information available to the Economic Committee, this resulted in some 20 to 25 billion of the amount discussed going in the form of a memorandum from the EIB, from the EIB loan, and logically from me in making my amendment, which I will be talking about in a little while, I imported that the remaining 5 to 6 billion should be financed by the very bonds issued by the SFDI that we need to change the law on. But in the media, I'm reading a quote from Minister Stanjura that the Department of Transport, the SFDI, will eventually not issue them. Ministers, please, my first question is, have you changed your mind, have you moved it in any way, will you use only the EIB, or will you combine the EIB and, at the same time, your own bonds to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? We don't know that yet. That's a big variable in the equation. And Minister Stanjura has a technical education, he's a programmer, a mathematician, I also have a technical education, I also like numbers, so I always say when we have an equation, we have some constants, some familiar ones, and then we have some variables. This is for me, colleagues, ministers, one big variable I do not know yet, which is why I have also made my amendment on it, which I will beg for your support. Controversy number one. [[11.50 hours]] Controversy number two. You agree, both here at the House plenary and in the media, that the EIB should be, and it really has it set up, primarily used on the railway infrastructure, i.e. on the transport bridge, and so is it, which is considered to be environmentally friendly, as regards carbon footprint, energy performance, efficiency and so on. I will not dispute this statement, I agree with it, but then I will look at those numbers and see: the total allocation for the ŘSD, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, from national sources without the OPD, without the Operational Programme Transport, is 56.2 billion, and this credit financing is 21.1 of which is almost half of the budget of the ŘSD. I repeat, without Operation Program Transport. For the Railway Administration, it's 54.3 in total, but only 9.5 from the EIB. So we see that the difference is enormous, almost half on the roads at the ŘSD, some estimate of a quarter, less than a quarter at the Railway Administration. So, ministers, Minister Kupka, that's my second question. It is a good idea for the EIB to be more used in railways, in railway projects - and I will always praise it there and I will be happy to comment positively on it - but we do not understand it and ask why you propose to use more, much more, actually twice, at the Road and Motorway Directorate, it is $21.1 billion in this draft budget for 2023. Okay, I'm gonna move on with my comments. Now it's going to be more directed at the Treasury Department. What I've been implying today and what Karel Havlíček has been talking about for a long time: it just doesn't add up to the classic accountant - he's against himself. If we plan, if we approve a draft state budget here today in a short while or during the afternoon, the state budget of the Czech Republic, which is directly in the box, in the budget box entitled Subsidy for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, is working with the amount, I will round it, 92.3 billion, then I will have another House printing 300 against it - I am already beginning to see badly at a distance - 325, State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. But there I read the number on the revenue page of 123.3 billion, a little over 123, and that's the amount, that's the 30.7 billion that just doesn't sit between the two House prints. This is what we point out, this is what Karel Havlíček actually wants to remedy with his amendment, where he wants to increase the budget in full, the expenditure side of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I'm following him up on some smaller or more compromise option that I'm going to explain in a little while. This means, here we are pointing out, and I am also telling you what the position of the YES movement will be or what the position I will recommend to my colleagues in the YES movement in that House press 325, that we simply cannot vote for it. Although I am glad as shadow minister of transport, I support this large amount of finance, I am glad that you are following up on projects that have been prepared for us, which are now running into realization, so we simply cannot ideally accept that in one press the amount does not correspond to the resulting amount in the previous press. That's what we want to point out. And that's what Karel Havlíček is asking, what I'm asking, and maybe I'll hear the answer: Will the loan be a mandatorial cost for the future, the expense of the Ministry of Finance, as it is for those blending calls today, or is it threatening to be a mandatorial cargo of the Minister of Transport, whether it be any future or the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure? Doesn't it happen that in the years 2024, 2025, 2026 when creating additional budgets, or even the medium-term outlooks that we talked about here, there suddenly appears on the side of the transport department under the EIB loan payment item, I don't know, in the amount of 10 or 15 billion? That's my question, ministers, and I beg you to answer it. And my last question. You, Minister, are rationally and rightly said - it is logical that we will borrow the EIB loan or use it if it is more advantageous than the State loan. Again, an argument that I do not question, which I agree with, but I ask: if it does not fall, if your decision is reversed, the loan will not be more advantageous, what will you do, where will you take the money for the planned 150.7 billion? Will you borrow them from the government's budget reserve, the general treasury? Are you coming here with some kind of state budget amendment in the middle of next year? Where are you going to get the money if the second scenario happens if the loan doesn't come in handy? You see, ministers, I'm not attacking, I'm not ironic, I'm not critical, but please, and I'm asking you here to answer the microphone of these two questions. And so I come to the conclusion of my speech, the brief brief defence of my amendment. They follow or are in two variants. I would very much like the government coalition to lean on the support of Karel Havlíček's proposal, which, to be sure, goes the more forceful way, suggests having the entire amount prepared in the SFDI, 30.7 billion, and you could work with that. If the loan goes down, then you don't have to draw it in the budget, you'll actually save the cost, so let's say it's not a burden to you, but to improve the state debt balance. I've tried to look at it a little bit more, let's say with a retreating look, a retreat option that I'm also asking you to consider. I think that might be even more realistic than the overall level, and that, Mr. Ministers Stanjuro and Kupko, is 5.7 billion. I didn't come to that amount at random. I came to her with a thought that I mentioned a little while ago. I have considered that, if what is publicly declared on your part is true, that means that the loan from the EIB will fall to about +/-25 billion, and I repeat, I am based on publicly available numbers, so there are still 5.7 billion left, which we might have - here we have already, I was looking for the number of the amendment - which the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure should obtain by issuing its bonds, which would also need to be amended by the SFDI Act. We don't know if this is gonna work out, we don't know if SFDI's really gonna issue those bonds. Therefore, please consider, it supports House Document No 1608, it has order number 60, and I propose here to increase the item Other subsidies for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure by this amount of 5.7 billion at the expense of the General Treasury chapter. I think that if you decided here for this amendment, ministers, that it would simplify your life in a way, too, and that perhaps the change in the state budget, which I suspect will come sometime next year, that it might not be so big, because you would already have that reserve by adopting this proposal. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u51	Thank you. Minister Kupka is registered with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor. Mr. Rais will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, not only will I try to answer these questions, but I will also underline a few important points at the same time. If we do not find a way to strengthen the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, it simply means that some buildings will have to stop. Did Vice-President Havlíček speak here, who will inherit the next generation of transport ministers? Dozens of billions of debt? So I'll tell you exactly what we really inherit and what we just have to carry at the same time if we don't want to send the construction of transport infrastructure to the flowers. We simply need to find money for signed contracts for the construction of a number of specific transport structures and we are doing this in a way that simply allows us to do so. It sounded like a memento that would then pay off the loans to the right. At the same time, however, you say - and you yourself have put forward and I welcome it clearly - as a recommended method of financing PPP. Well, you know that it's the same thing, that even in the case of PPP projects, those subsequent instalments, which, of course, are linked to the maintenance of such built-up communication or infrastructure, we pay from the budget of the SFDI. But what's important is where the funds come from? They will flow there naturally on the basis of government decisions along with the budget, i.e. with the solution of the whole package of financing of the Czech Republic. That is why we say that the approach we have chosen really corresponds to what problem the Czech Republic is facing at the moment, and we are opening a fan of possibilities. We all know that there is an urgent need to build a high-speed line in the Czech Republic. This will mean after 2025, 2026 to find somewhere more CZK 50 billion than the current budgets. If we do not find other financing options, then the Czech Republic will only be able to dream about it. And we don't want that. [[12.00 hours]] We also use the current critical situation as an opportunity to prepare real instruments for the Czech transport infrastructure, how to finance it, and we say: We have here a specific form of assistance, a loan from the European Investment Bank. At the same time, we are looking all over the European states, which, thanks to the help of the European Investment Bank, have been able to do a huge amount of work in the area of transport infrastructure in previous years. And it is absolutely appropriate to negotiate similar conditions with the European Investment Bank, as other states have done, to deal with the dramatic infrastructure debt. And by doing this and expressing it in the form of numbers, we give only the visible numerical value of internal debt, which is, of course, a serious limit for further economic development for the Czech Republic. And the fact that we are trying to find a solution in this situation for the necessary infrastructure investment is important for starting positive economic developments, to eliminate the obstacles we have. What's it gonna be in terms of putting the tools together? We will have a specific offer from the European Investment Bank, including the amount of interest. We will have at our disposal, and I can also mention this, other concrete offers of credit financing from banks - have already been negotiated with banks in the past weeks. At the same time, we are preparing - and you will have it here in the House in a matter of weeks - a legislative solution precisely for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure bonds and we have other options and tools in the form of government bonds. And the responsibility is - and we say it from the first moment - to put those instruments together in a mosaic that will be just the most advantageous for the state. Yes, we are discussing this with regard to what funds were in the medium term for this year, there were 96 billion crowns. It means that if we really just get close to this value, really a whole series of buildings will have to be preserved and it will cost more money and, above all, a blow to the whole construction and a blow to all prospects of how transport infrastructure should develop. The only honest answer that can be given from the point of view of development is to come up with an open fan of financing options. What about the EIB loan and where will it be repaid from? Well, given that the Ministry of Finance will be a partner, it will, of course, be a matter that will be carried by the State through the Ministry of Finance in future years, but I say at the same time: it is very good that at the same time it will be clear that the funds will go to finance the construction of transport infrastructure and that it is fair to say that these are the funds that we spend on taxpayers' money to make trains easier to drive around the Czech Republic, easier to drive on motorways, on first-class roads, and also to raise inland river cruises. These are all real answers. You're saying we haven't answered the risks - we've answered them about 20 times, you just don't want to hear it, and you're going back to the same one. In that light, it is a complete paradox that the amendment of Vice-President Havlíček goes, as Zbyněk Stanjura said, to the chapter on the administration of the sovereign debt, as if we could stop repaying the state debt. Total nonsense. So we oppose this fairly, clearly, transparently for everyone, for the Czech public, that we need to invest more, that we will invest more, that construction will not stop, that we will try to repay historical infrastructure debt in these difficult times, and that we will also be responsible for using more tools. And once again, I'm stressing the attack through what happens to the next generation of ministers... Well, just like in the case of PPP projects that we all want and are the result of a general consensus in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm stressing that. Please put aside, at least in this regard, unnecessary mandatory opposition criticism for a moment, and please look at this factually from the point of view of what the Czech infrastructure needs, what proposals we are putting forward in this regard. And I am convinced that this will also mean not only for the construction industry, for infrastructure, but also for Czech society an important boost, that there will continue to be constructions that serve people and which, even in the following period, can be invested thanks to this, perhaps from your point of view, but undoubtedly responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u53	Thank you. No one's reporting with a factual remark, so we can... But I can see that Mr. Kolovratník has yet to come forward quickly. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u54	I'm unhappy about this. We're talking to each other, but we don't really listen to each other. Minister, it's no opposition or mandatory criticism, it's nothing like that... and I said it in my performance, and Karel Havlíček speaks anyway. When you say: We have to find money, we promote, we want to use PPP more, we are looking for other options... For everything, I checked out o.k., yes, consent. There, Minister, we are absolutely in agreement. Before you came into the hall, I was talking about the EIB for Dan Ťok, we used it for the first time in 2018, we got the tool tested. We are here in agreement, in complete agreement, opposition and coalition. But if I ask again when we'll know the offer, the parameters of the EIB, I don't have an answer yet - I'm sorry, it was general: we'll get it, we'll have it. But at this point, we're approving the budget, we're not sitting a large state budget against the SFDI budget, we don't know the parameters, that's the first risk I'm talking about, and I don't have an answer. Second of all, I take your sentence, which was sounded on the microphone - yes, even in the future it will be a commitment of the Ministry of Finance. This is a very fundamental and important sentence that was specific. And in the third time, I asked Minister Stanjura: if it doesn't work out, if the EIB's terms aren't as convenient as if he borrowed the money from the state, where will you get the money from? Will it be a state budget amendment? Is it gonna be some kind of general treasury or where it's gonna be from? You just didn't answer that. So please, let's try to get back to this, if you have the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u55	Thank you. The actual Minister Kupka wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u56	So you say how carefully you listen to us, but you don't listen. The answer has been repeated, and I don't want to argue about procedures. Just the moment we put together the fan, we'll know the parameters, we'll have other possible tools that we'll use because there's nothing else left if we don't want to stay in debt to the infrastructure, and, by the way, to long-term plans, not just to our government's plans. All we have to do is find more tools than the Czech Republic has used so far. If we hadn't, that would have been a serious problem for the whole Czech Republic. So once again, a direct answer to a clear question: where would we get the money if it turned out that it wasn't advantageous? Well, no doubt in that moment, the other possibilities of using the funds will lie next to it. And if we decide to do so, it's based on the fact that we'll be able to draw the funds more favorably elsewhere. That means we're going to have an alternative that we're going to put next to the EIB's offer, that's the answer. And if it's the bonds of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, or ordinary government bonds, or any specific commercial proposal, the offer of a consortium of banks, it all comes to mind. And it is fair to deal with it, because large funds like the Swiss funds are going the same way as Poland and other European states that are building and paying off their historical debts. And you're saying that you actually did as a yes to everything, that you agree with it, but then it doesn't mix with a criticism that really sounds like you don't like the way we're trying to solve the problem. And we're explaining what the logic is, you just don't want to accept it, but believe me, if we didn't go that way, you'd probably be standing here today criticizing us for stopping the construction of transport infrastructure. We're not doing that. On the contrary, we want to offer the Czech Republic a healthy and fair way out of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u57	Thank you. There are no more real remarks, so we can move on to the next ones entered into the debate, and this is Mr Karel Rais. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u58	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Ministers - these are not here, colleagues, I would very much like to ask the honourable House to support Amendment 1557, which I, together with Mr Ivo Vondrák, have tabled to ensure a bearable and competitive income for university staff. In particular, we propose a change in the draft Government Act on the State Budget in order to increase the budget for the wages of higher education workers by CZK 1 430 000 000. I regret that the Prime Minister, the Emeritus Rector of Masaryk University, does not see the situation as we do, or as the College Council, which represents the staff of universities and which also points to a very poor and unbearable state in the state's salary policy. In support of our amendment, I will use the untypical arguments of the coalition minister Mr Balaš, who, in my October interpellation, which I was going to solve the problem, said, among other things, quote: "You see that scissors between funding for higher and regional education are opening up, so that the share of higher education in total funding is constantly falling as a percentage and, of course, it is also decreasing nominally. It happens that young promising college graduates who, for example, study doctoral studies prefer to go to secondary education because the average wage in secondary education is about CZK 15,000 higher for them than it is in higher education, and I think this imbalance can cause disaster sooner or later, because at that moment there will be no one to teach." So he was only talking about teaching faculty workers, but the situation is generally the same, and I totally agree with him that scissors are opening between financing regional and higher education. So this is the end, so basically this was the end of the Minister's quote. I would also like to add a few concrete figures which highlight this poor situation in higher education pay policy. These are tariffs, where university staff tariffs are even 26 to 41 percent lower in the Czech Republic compared to the average of higher education workers' tariffs. So a college student at the university, his tariff is slowly half as low as the tariff in other parts of the economy. Even the category of higher education professors is below this national comparison by about minus 10 percent. Everywhere we hear how the government will support education, but the current pay reality is completely different. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of this amendment, which would at least partially align the state's pay policy towards university staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and other applicants are Mr. Radek Koten. I'm just pointing out that we have a fixed election point at 1:00. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u60	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to touch on a number of areas that I have not captured in this draft budget for 2023, and in particular I lack the energy concept of the Czech Republic. If, in some way, we were to develop a concept owned by the State's critical infrastructure so that it could be partially redeemed or completely redeemed by the minority shareholders of ČEZ, I think it would be quite a good tool for the state as a 100% owner of this company to effectively regulate energy prices, i.e. electricity, for Czech citizens. Furthermore, we have experienced the liberalisation of the energy market, not only electricity, but of course also gas, and the state here has, of course, been Mirek of Topolánek, gas infrastructure and so on. So I would expect that in the draft budget, given the situation we have here, the government will create some kind of energy concept for the Czech Republic for the following years. As for the clips, they were for sale. For this reason, I have intersected both the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Prime Minister, but so far I have no further information as to whether or not the government is counting on it for the next period. I have made an amendment, which was loaded here at second reading, as House document 1621, so then I will ask you to support it. The issue here is that the National Economic Council of the Government has recommended that the government reduce the number of Czech Police officers by 3,000 tables. At this time, we already have a base of approximately 4 to 5,000 police officers and, given the migration crisis, which is at least fourfold, fivefold compared to 2015, I think that this is a step in a very bad direction, and, on the contrary, my amendment addresses directly in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, within the transfer of funds, such as payments abroad for keeping an eye on the borders or external borders of the Schengen area, but, as we can see, it does not work, so that these funds, which are directed in this direction, are being transferred to the salaries of police officers. And I think that even given the busyness of the Police of the Czech Republic, more recruitment should begin and police officers should feel that the state will support them in their work. Personally, I think that all the things that are happening now - I wouldn't blame it all for the one reason, but it started, of course, with Green Deal, a failed, messed-up one, when Germany shut down several nuclear power plants, which were relatively innovative, and of course the electricity on the market is missing. I've been listening to the Minister of Finance here, who says that basically no scenarios of what the opposition has warned about here have actually happened. But I think that the citizens of this republic are already coming up with new bills for new energy reserves, and that the other new bills will come back after the New Year, because simply the price ceiling that has been set on energy, the ceiling, is very, very high and it is several times the amount that citizens and companies have been able to pay. So, of course, that's what's going to happen, but you're still lucky that the bills didn't come to some people who had fixations already. As far as closing companies is concerned, you do not really need to close them, because any undertaking that is economically inefficient due to input and input energy prices either reduces production, that is what colleagues have already said or closes here, or starts firing workers that they will not need because they will not have such sales. Competition on the market thanks to energy, of course, will fall and it will affect all disciplines, unfortunately including food industry, so that they can close dairy plants, they can close other businesses dealing with food processing, and it will not be nice. So I see that we are sending billions here for godly purposes, but I would expect this budget to reflect more energy security, energy government concept, and especially food security, because if food products stop producing here in some amount and we are far more dependent on imports of these foods, it can be expected that in the surrounding states it will be similar, so the price will, of course, shoot up, as food is already significantly more expensive, but it can, of course, accelerate. So really this budget, as it's built, doesn't make much sense to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the next party to the debate is Mr Zdeněk Kettner. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u62	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm gonna get off tonight for the last time. It is still the same song, it is still the same amendments. That means, I ask, even though it may be in vain when I hear a statement at press conferences from the five-wheelers, but as they say, the melting straws catch, sometimes a little miracle happens, so one last time and one last time I try to convince someone from the five-wheelers to raise his hand for common sense. When I put those amendments on budget 2022, I was rejected. In the course of the year, it turns out I was right, unfortunately. I'd rather it wasn't, but I was just right. In the media, you could track the statements made by the heads of kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools that confirmed my reservations, and what I warned about. It obviously left you cold. Then came an amendment to the state budget, when I once again suggested it, when there was still a chance to save it somehow. Again, it was rejected. And now we have the budget for 2023, and not only will there not be stabilisation in this area, you have decided to go further to the marrow, which means to slow down. It doesn't make any sense to me at all, and it just doesn't make sense for me. I would like to remind some members of the five koalice: in the last parliamentary term, when the situation was not as trivial as it is now, for example, KDU-ČSL colleagues also proposed an increase in ONIV or other non-investment expenditures, so I would expect them to have a certain consistency of opinion. It really doesn't make sense to me -- or at a time when the problem wasn't like that, the KDU-ČSL members considered it insufficient, and now they raise their hand for... at a time when inflation is growing in an incredible way, the problem here is, in fact, a second reduction. And the second member of the five-police, the pirát, in the last parliamentary term, proposed an increase in funds for non-edagogical workers. Once again, do I expect the consistency of their views - if necessary before now, is this no longer necessary at a distance of some time? The problem is really here. And I really appeal, let's forget about the political struggles. A lot of citizens look at the Chamber of Deputies in a very hostile way, especially when they watch the transmissions of the Chamber of Deputies. They feel that basically the only thing we're focusing on here are some personal attacks and fights, and the citizens that we're supposed to be looking for in the first place are in the back for us, in the second row. It is in this case that we have a chance to show that this is not the case, that when we see that there is a problem actually described, actually existing, described by experts, when there exists, so that we are able somehow to free ourselves from any political ambition into the jurisdiction of which political party and raise your hand for something that makes sense and which has meaning for the functioning of the state and for the citizens of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u63	Thank you, and please, another of your applications, and this is Mr Marek Novák. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In fact, my esteemed colleagues, my representatives of the Government, today I am speaking in particular to the five-police Members and, of course, to the Government, because you know very well that, in the course of the vote on the state budget, we will also decide on the amendments tabled by me, where I am asking for your support. I want to say at the outset that all three proposals are not really an opposition on purpose, they do not want to harm or even more indebt your budget and our state. This is a meaningful transfer of funds that can help, and therefore I am very much asking for support. All of these proposals of mine have simple goals. These include: health protection, risk prevention, drug problems for the most vulnerable, i.e. in our children and adolescents. Furthermore, I propose assistance in dealing with irregularities in the functioning of the State in the payment of civil servants' wages. It is precisely the maximum support for the creation and implementation of drug problems, social prevention and crime prevention that must be a part of our young people's education and education. What can we do for this group with more than permanent education and information to minimize the impact of the drug supply, which will lead young people to drugs and, unfortunately, to a criminal journey? They'll use it on purpose. From the point of view of the budget, it is only 50 in one proposal and 95 million in the other proposal, and they can fundamentally help. Mostly they can help with the address. It's not money thrown into a trash can, it's money targeted at specific people, specific children. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to editing, the other one, which is focused on the salaries of employees of the Czech Telecommunications Office. This is actually a technical regulation, that would be unfair knowingly this part of the civil servants, and, on the other hand, not only is it, to ignore the Czech Television just as this office becomes increasingly busy and more important due to its new and other tasks. Consider, for example, the regulation of the prices of mobile operators. I am sorry that Minister Síkela did not do this alone in the legislative process and preparation of the state budget. That is why I see this proposal as a handshake again, and I do not see any reason why we cannot support it here. Well, one reason I may see is the deep contradiction between our opposition and your coalition, although I don't see a single reason why it should be at all. I actually see contradiction and mutual blackmail in your coalition as well, but it's up to you how you feel about it, how you feel about it. Anyway, you have it hidden under a leaky umbrella, and many notice it. Unfortunately, our contradiction is so deep that it rejects or blocks anything that the opposition proposes without thinking about the coalition in this House. We learn this in advance from the media, it is very pleasant, but unfortunately your arrogance is growing, and I ask you once again, let us do things that will help and let us not reject things because of who brings them forward. In all this, we are actually losing our ability to agree on things together, to realize good things for our people. It is our citizens that must be, and for me, in fact, our citizens will always be a priority for me, which is why I am putting forward these proposals. [[12.30 hours]] We are not living in an easy time, and the following months will be even harder. We will have more new regulations on energy backup for our citizens, and we will all be surprised. Some will again seek simple solutions, and therefore higher resources are needed here to prevent drug addiction and crime. We want our citizens to come together and stick together. Therefore, I am asking you now to join us, stick together, so that we can approve these in substance and in a sense for the purposes of the amendments. They're for our people, not for us politicians. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u65	Thank you. Please, Mrs Berkovcová. In the meantime, I'll read some apologies real quick. Jan Kubík from 12 to 14 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Renata Oulehlová from 11 to 11.30 for work reasons, Mr Julius Špičák for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons and Minister Vít Rakušan from 12.30 to 14.30 also for work reasons. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, along with my colleague Balaštíková, tabled two amendments to the chapter of the Ministry of Education. The first amendment under number 1498 calls for an increase of CZK 4 billion in wages for educators, which would slow the decline in salaries to the level of 2019 when teachers' salaries were 116 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic, last year it was 126 percent. If this amendment fails, which is quite likely as an opposition proposal, teachers' salaries will fall four years back. Although the government declared in its programming statement that - I quote - "we will keep teachers' salaries at 130 per cent of the average gross monthly wage" And now he's going to drop to 116 percent. I would also like to quote the announcement from Petr Fiala's Facebook of 5 November 2019, when the state budget for 2020 was approved. Back then, it was an opposition declaration. I quote: "We demand an increase in teacher salaries to 150 percent of the average wage. Teachers need real money. He will not buy anything for the empty promises of Andrej Babiš." Did you hear that right, 150 percent? Seriously? You are not able to pay up to 130 per cent of the average gross wage, nor to keep them at 120 per cent. If we do not want the fall in teachers' salaries back four years, I ask that we support this amendment, which will increase teachers' salaries. And now, to my second amendment under number 1499, which calls for an increase in the chapter in regional education by CZK 1.1 billion, missing from staffing teaching assistants. In the field of payroll, there is no guarantee of an increase in personnel support measures in the conversion of approximately 2,216 employees, i.e. teachers' assistants. The fact that this is a really urgent problem proves that the exact same amendment was filed by five Coalition Members, including the same amount, only two weeks later than I did. My colleague Balaštíková and I put this proposal into the system on 1 November, and the Coalition Members put it two weeks later, on 15 November. It would probably be foolish to think that the coalition would support the opposition's proposal, even if it was more self-reasoning. You did not agree with the joint submission of the proposal, so you vote yours, which demands the same. The positive thing is that schools will eventually get the money for an assistant educator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u67	Thank you, Madame. Please, Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u68	Hello, colleagues, and the government has approved almost 400 billion deficits this year. For 2023, it is 300 billion, and in 2025, when its term ends, it plans 280 billion and the next year 260 billion. If we add it up, it's 1.2 trillion. These numbers show to me that we're not planning any reforms, no cuts in spending, no increases in revenue, and when I sum up, nothing. And why were they called the government's budgetary responsibilities, even though they criticized the previous government, which dealt with the covid half the parliamentary term, ensured the survival of companies that had to stop production and their operations, maintained full employment and allowed the economy to resume immediately after the worst times had come to an end? This government has brought down energy prices at 6,050 per megawatt hour, while Poland has a limit of 3,500, Austria 2,500 and Germany is even more generous, and so on and so on. Our current government has wasted time, and to this day we do not know exactly how it will all be. I don't think she's given a helping hand to the companies yet, although they often talk about it in flames. At the same time, there is also a clear and ineffective Presidency of the European Union. When France presided over last semester, President Macron had almost six extraordinary advice, and I would welcome it if we now had some fundamental advice and made clear our solidarity clearly in energy, in food, but I do not see that the government would call for some extraordinary advice, that it would be able to discuss and prepare issues that could be agreed, or, where appropriate, directly decided, even if this is often offered. I'm afraid we're more of a cold, dark, and expensive winter, and in January we're going to run into poverty. From the pre-election promises to today's harsh reality, this government has kept its mantras from raising taxes and reducing the budget deficit, but it only succeeds at the cost of various tricks and optical deceptions that inflate future incomes and put the necessary expenditures away. The tax on excessive profits is a typical example of wishful thinking, and I fear it is not based on a realistic basis. The tax applies to energy companies and banks, oddly not applicable to the arms industry, which undoubtedly also has excessive and unexpected profits, but this has already been explained by the Secretary of Defense. I found that even churches have unexpected profits, because the ruling politicians have somehow overlooked that the inflation clause of church restitution will raise the state's spending - imagine - by 7.5 billion in one year! We know about rising inflation for at least a year, so something could be discussed and changed in time. Similarly, the rules for calculating pensions could change in time so that I would not witness the fronts of early retirement applicants, which will be measured at more this year than normal old-age pensions will do next year. The government just doesn't control these things, it doesn't think conceptually, it sprains its wedge, and the entire state budget leads, I'm afraid, to bankruptcy. The deficit has already been planned for three years in advance, so it doesn't intend to reform anything in the years to come, neither the tax system, nor the pension system, nor the health sector, and as I said, I don't see anything. Sometimes he gives his parents $5,000 for crayons, but he takes them off the education budget. However, the support of families with children is probably well sold politically, so we will add them, and by the way, this thing cost us exactly 7 billion, which we could communicate with someone else who suddenly acquired them, but it did not happen. And in a situation where these families with children do not come out with their incomes because they have to pay higher rent, more expensive energy, more expensive food, it is rather scandalous that the churches will receive more than 7 billion from the state, which they certainly did not count on and which could be discussed. I have to stand up for the Church, because they are really devoted to a lot of public benefit, doing a lot of important work that the state may not even be able to cover, but I think you could have dealt with the 7 billion, and I think it was a little bit of a surprise as much as it does. Instead, we're gonna cut our old-age and youth tickets, save $2 billion, and leave other things unnoticed. So I could go on and calculate more and more inter-steps and subterfuges that are being done to stand up for ourselves in our pre-election vows. The current problems are not solved, they are not resolved quickly - earlyness is not the strong side of our government, but chaoticness and impossible promises, and especially the statements made by some ministers, which are no longer true for the next day, become part of all of us's lives, and unfortunately all of us citizens of this country. [[12.40 hours]] Everyone makes mistakes, but not everyone can admit them, and I really appreciate people who can say - and it's often really hard: I made a mistake. I just wanted to appeal with my speech to make you realize the responsibility you should have, because your decisions have an impact on all citizens, on the future of our country, and not on you. I'll be glad if my Facebook page is fulfilling something other than asking us to stop something, and believe me, I mean it honestly. It's more like thinking about realizing that something is wrong and that maybe even admitting some truths is really just for the strong among us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u69	Thank you, Madame. Another of the applicants is Mr Patrik Nacher, who is not here now, so we will move him, and I would like to ask Mr David Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u70	Good afternoon, colleagues, ministers, Madam Secretary, I will continue with what my colleague Balaštíková started with the appeal. I'll appeal, rather my performance will be so brief, but it will be as a request to the Minister of Agriculture, who is here somewhere, but especially to the Minister of Finance. As far as the Department of Agriculture is concerned, my colleague Karel Tureček will comment on this, and I would like to draw attention only to one thing that came out last week when the State Veterinary Administration issued a press release that exceptional veterinary measures for intensive catch of black game along the border with Poland and Germany will be abolished from the New Year. And wonder for the world, it's not because the disease situation has somehow improved in African swine fever, but it's for economic reasons that they just don't have the money to pay off gunshots. I think it's a shame that, after we started in 2017, after 2018, but mainly 2017, they had African swine fever in the Zlín Region, we all know how much effort and money it cost so that we could bring something that could happen here for about 50 million. African swine fever upstairs in Poland is. At the border with Germany and in the Liberec Region there was a buffer zone, which actually motivated, gunnery motivated hunters to walk, hunt and reduce black animals. At this point, it looks like the money will only be for the finder's fee, which I think is bad after that. I would very much like it if the Minister of Finance could find some 50 million of these things to avoid being done, and these savings might not have occurred particularly in this area, because I think prevention there is extremely important, and what could happen without, for example, the bullet-proof one would be far and far more costly than prevention itself. The surrounding states also pay gunfighters, the Slovák even give 100 euros per head of hunted black game plus they are still able to give 50 euros if it is within 10 kilometers of a pig farm. I think that the huge budget of the billions of the few million should be found, and I would very much like the Minister of Agriculture to ask the Ministry of Finance and that the money was somehow promised or transferred to him and this measure was not interrupted in our Liberec Region. So it's just like that in a nutshell. Of course, I would like you to support us with the amendments that my colleague is going to mention here, because I firmly believe that these are the amendments of the members of the agricultural committee, and as I heard on public television on Monday, Mr Bernard, the chairman of the budget committee, who, when asked by the moderator, said if he would support any amendments by the opposition, he said yes, but he would not specify them. So I firmly believe that it will be the ones that we are serving because I think they have a head and a heel, just as we will support coalition amendments - even if you can argue that you do not need us for this, but for us, support for food banks, I think, is important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u71	Thank you and please Mrs Mr. Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u72	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would also like to comment on the draft state budget for 2023 at third reading. I have already made my point of fact, and I will say again that the budget is the fundamental document, the most important law, the most important document. I would venture to say that she is a cook with whom we cook, as they say, all year round, and therefore it is extremely important to set the budget well, and I dare say that it is extremely important to set it in the revenue section, because if you set the revenue part that is then not fulfilled, it is a big problem, because you will then put expenditures against income. The fact that there is a budget proposed here with some deficit, which, if it will be at the end of 2023, is a question, because the way our shadow secretary of finance performed, clearly states that some things in that revenue section are not even approved by this House to this day, whether it be the Modernization Fund, of course, the things that we have approved here about the tax on extraordinary profits and taxes, which is supposed to bring 100 billion into the budget. The question is whether it should have been this way, if it was not easier to use the undivided profit of ČEZ, or the profit that ČEZ will have this year, because the fact that we approved this place in a legislative emergency and there are still many unknowns, if it is unconstitutional, there can be a number of actions and so on. Some of these companies can take those companies out of the Czech Republic. This can also be seen in the figures concerning dividends that have left the Czech Republic or in the figures compared to last year, how it has increased only in the first three quarters of this year. I would like to mention, in the context of the draft budget for 2023 by the Ministry of the Interior, that the Minister of the Interior says how he will reduce the number of seats at the Ministry of the Interior. Today, when the government is in session, it will approve the material Change of systemization, where it says how many seats will be reduced under the service law. Well, let's see how it really is. On January 1, 2022, there were 15 458 people at the ministries. As of January 1, 2023, the government is planned to approve the systemization today, 15,543 officials, that is, 85 more. This may be linked to the approval of yesterday's Service Act. Yes, there should be fewer places within the system, but there should be fewer places within the functional elements of the state, i.e., places at health stations are taken out, places at the district social security administration are taken out. But on the individual resorts, on the 18 resorts, they're going to grow by 85 seats. I guess that's not what the government said. This government has come and said that it will reduce the number of official posts by 13 percent, and I am learning from today's systemization, which will be approved by the government, that 85 more posts will be created at 18 ministries. I don't think that's a reduction. [[12.50 hours]] And now, let's look at the Ministry of the Interior's resort. I'm sure you've heard the performances of the first, second reading from the Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, how he will reduce and save at the Ministry of the Interior and there will be a cancellation of 200 seats. So I took a look at the systemization today, and I learned that there's going to be an increase of 164 places. Well, I don't know, either I'm lying or I'm not reading well, but it's clearly written in the material. And of that, 200 people go to the Digital and Information Agency, so in that case, it's an increase of 364 seats. I don't know what it's like. But when I looked at today's systemization to be approved by the government this afternoon, what we're told is that there's no way that it's based on the truth. So there will be an increase in seats at the Ministry of the Interior, and the Minister of the Interior will take public administration systems such as data boxes, the administration of basic registers and more. I don't understand how the Home Secretary can allow this, because public administration systems have always been under the Ministry of the Interior. These are important systems, whether they are data boxes, Czech POINTs and others. And I don't understand at all that this is a step that has been taken. I'll repeat myself. If we have made a vice-premiere for digitization, yes, change the law of competence, let the Minister of Regional Development have it under the Ministry, not under some Digital and Information Agency, which will be created here, where many IT specialists from the Ministry of the Interior will not pass, and at the same time there will be another 120 seats. I would like to point out that, of course, this is not in the systemization approved by the government today. At the same time, I would like to say that in the draft budget, and this will also be addressed today by the government, the increase in remuneration is for relaxed and unreleased representatives. You know, I've appealed several times to the Home Secretary that they're mayors, they're the captains, they're the ones on the front line that they deserved to get a reward. The Minister of the Interior is coming to the government today and is proposing that there be an increase of 10 percent. The association of cities and municipalities in the commentary procedure suggested that this increase be 15%, the same as the Association of Local Authorities wants this increase to be 15 percent for mayors of municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. I am surprised that the Minister of the Interior failed to comply with them, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, because they will have to pay for it, the municipalities and cities, from their budgets. And when I appealed to the Minister, I said that I would look for a path like a one-time, extraordinary reward for how perfectly they handled and manage things like covid, such as the refugee crisis and other things, because without the mayors and the captains and without the people on the front line, there's no way they could have done it. But security is also essential to police and firefighters. They are also mentioned many times here, as they deserve admiration, respect, respect. Now I've read on Facebook how the Minister of the Interior appreciated the firefighters, certainly great, but when I look at the draft budget, firefighters, especially those who aren't uniformed, that means so-called civil servants, those who may have raised money about salary, but the funds are still not in the budget. That is why I and my colleagues Drahoslav Ryba, with Mr Lang, with Jirka Mašek, and to remember someone, Mr Brázdil, Robert Králíček and Mr Sadovský, so we tabled two amendments that set this straight so that both police and firefighters would have the funds there. And the other part is the expense part. According to the information we have, even in the expenditure section, the funds will be missing, so there is a proposal for the fire department to increase the amount in the expenditure section, as well as in the Police of the Czech Republic. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance, has always said here several times that we do not make amendments. I think we give many, but I do not remember any opposition amendment being supported. I think that many things we know are good, as opposition we support. And I would be very pleased if coalitions and, above all, ministers would start to do so, because I see that sometimes some amendment is made by an opposition Member, so a coalition Member will quickly write it. And there is no way that an amendment will be approved by the opposition, but by the coalition. And I don't think it's about us competing here, but it's about doing the right thing, and that, if the opposition points it out and it's right, it's about supporting and approving it from your side. So it's the budget of 2023. I'm sure we'll keep a close eye on how the revenue part is going to be filled and whether the budget that has been presented is realistic or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u73	Thank you, Madame. We have one factual remark from Mr Brázdil. I'm pointing out that we have a fixed point at 1:00, but you only have it for two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u74	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure I can make it. For the ninth time here, I've always tried to draw attention to one thing. The IRS, firefighters and cops were mentioned here. They have - in fact, each of you has the opportunity to intervene in some way in the budget and somehow to pass something on to the firefighters and the cops. I am terribly sorry that I failed to do so, although I know that even the current minister says that the transformation of an ambulance could go so far as to finally be a state institution and would also be part of this state's budget. I'm sorry, colleagues, but unfortunately, as much as you're most worked up, with the smallest number of people, you can't help you. At least from the point of view of the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As we begin an extraordinary point or a fixed point in less than a minute, I am declaring a break within 13.00 hours, less than a minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-001-102.u76	We've got 13 hours and we'll continue with the next point.
