ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the fourth day of the 6th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 26, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will vote. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Pekarová Adamová Markéta - foreign travel, Babiš Andrej for work reasons, Balaš Vladimír within 10 hours - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav - health reasons, Bělohlávková Romana - working reasons, Bernard Josef - working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav - working reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav - health reasons, Feranec Milan - health reasons, kolář Ondřej - health reasons, Koten Radek - health reasons, Kott Josef - health reasons, Mašek Jiří - health reasons, Naiclerová Hana - health reasons, but those excuses were cancelled, Nováková Nina - family reasons, Quittová Petra - family reasons, Staněk Pavel - health reasons, vlček Lukáš from 12 to 16.30 - working reasons and Wenzl Milan - health reasons. From members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš for work reasons, Blažek Pavel for work reasons, Černochová Jana for work reasons, Hubáčková Anna for work reasons, Jurečka Marian from 10.30 hours for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from 9.40 hours for work reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk for work reasons, Šalomoun Michal for work reasons, Válek Vlastimil for work reasons. We should start today's meeting by discussing points on the approved agenda. I would remind you that at 1:30, we have fixed voting points, namely item 60 and item 61. I have received a written application from President Okamura to the agenda of the meeting and I ask President Okamura to make a proposal to amend the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as the first item of the meeting of today's House of Deputies programme to set up a committee of inquiry pursuant to § 48 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies entitled: Investigation of the financing of the STAN movement. We have - and I will attach here to the Vice-President - a signed document on behalf of the ANO and the SPD. The reasons for calling a commission of inquiry to investigate the financing of the ANO movement are as follows: [[correct STAN]] 1. It is necessary to investigate who are the end owners of the companies that sent the sponsorship donations of the ANO movement in the time period from 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022. [[correct STAN]] 2. It is necessary to examine the property structure and origin of the companies that sent STAN's sponsorship donations in the period from 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022. 3. It is necessary to examine whether all sponsorship donations provided within the time period from 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022 has been properly taxed. 4. It is necessary to examine whether all sponsorship donations provided within the time period from 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022 were provided by STAN in accordance with the law. So this is our proposal, as I was saying, I have signed the sheets here with me already signed by members of the ANO movement and the SPD movement, we are here two opposition parties. And, as I was saying, yesterday, when we tried to hold an extraordinary meeting on this subject, unfortunately the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement, at the same time the Interior Minister, did not answer those fundamental questions, and who is the end owner, namely those natural persons who own those companies connected to the Cyprus tax havens, which are sponsors of the STAN movement. Furthermore, he has not uncovered the property structure of the companies sponsoring the STAN movement. There was an interesting situation where yesterday during the day their coalition partner Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirates, challenged Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement that - I quote: "He must explain his funding." And I asked here before the vote on government trust yesterday whether Vít Rakušan explained to his colleague the funding of the STAN movement. She asked Ivan Bartoš and the media at a press conference after trusting the government, and Ivan Bartoš said that Vít Rakušan didn't explain anything to him, and suddenly he talked about future time, that he should explain it to him sometime in the future. So the pirát servilely and desperately raised their hand to trust the government without fulfilling the demand that the pirát' chairman made against his coalition partner, Vít Rakušan, on the same day. So, really, how the pirát have stopped asking for transparency in exchange for the trough is a completely exemplary case of yesterday. And whoever thought there might be a turnaround - there's no turnaround, and it's really desperate, but it's not my fight anymore, it's the pirát' fight. So that's the first point, the committee of inquiry, and now it's important that it's approved. Here, I would also like to stress to the audience that if that committee of inquiry, whether it is approved or not, depends on the voices of the government coalition, because the government coalition here has 108. This means that if the government coalition, members of the STAN, ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and the Pirates vote against the setting up of the commission of inquiry, there will be no commission of inquiry, and the citizens and the public will not know who and how STAN funds from some hidden companies. I hope that the members of the STAN movement, because I have seen that among the members of the STAN movement there are a number of mayors of small communities who have 600 inhabitants, 700 inhabitants, 800 inhabitants, and are approaching municipal elections, so of course I was looking at who and how, so perhaps... or I hope that the mayors of the smallest communities who actually come home will be walking around with citizens - I have seen exactly who they are, from what communities, what are the names of the mayors who are now Members, so I hope that these mayors of small municipalities, but I will not name them here, but will we certainly ask for this in the future, whether they can stand up to the citizens and look them in the eyes when they are members of the movement that is funded by God knows where, in the direction connected to tax haven, and they are not asking for transparency themselves? They themselves, these mayors, are not asking the leadership of the STAN and Vít Rakušan movement, they obviously don't care who and how they finance them? I think they should explain it to the citizens. That is why I am talking about this, so that citizens in these municipalities also start asking their STAN MEPs how it is that they start explaining it to them. [[9.10 hours]] So that's the point I'm suggesting. It's on behalf of the YES and the SPD, I suggest it be the first point. Then I have a second special point here, a proposal for the SPD movement. We propose to include as a second item at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies an item entitled The Discussion on the abolition of the passage of the mandatory covid vaccination decree. As we know, the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek promised before the elections that he would be against mandatory covid vaccination, but after becoming a minister, the Fialův Government refuses to cancel the compulsory vaccination decree. It is such a betrayal on voters because there is a huge number of citizens of the Czech Republic - I am also not vaccinated, but I do not want to talk about myself - there are really many of us and many of us, it is more than 30% of the citizens of the Czech Republic, millions of citizens of the Czech Republic who are not vaccinated. And not in our case, because we're not against vaccination, SPD, we're not against it, we're in favour of volunteering. That's what this is about in case of covid vaccination. We're talking about vaccinations. The Minister of Health Válek said before the elections here in the House about the situation a year ago that it is very right in the decree that the vaccination is optional. I quote, "If it's mandatory, I'll be the first to be chained up here naked in front of this House and not let the Minister in." The end of the quote of then MP Vlastimil Válek before he joined the government and became a minister. So here... I really... it's incredible how Petr Fiala's five-calice government isn't ashamed to lie to people like that, because you refuse to cancel the mandatory vaccination decree. Despite your pre-election vows, you and the government have done nothing to restore the unconstitutionally limited freedoms of the citizens of this country and against increasing discrimination. Here I would like to remind you that the SPD last week published on our website a model letter to the Ombudsman so that citizens could send applications to the Ombudsman for a constitutional complaint against the passage of the mandatory covid vaccination decree. And here I would like to thank the citizens that thousands and thousands of them, and according to Mr Stanislav Křeček's comments, sent a model of the free download letter, free of charge is downloaded on the SPD website www.spd.cz, and the result was successful, the SPD movement that, on the basis of this initiative, the Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček - with whom I spoke last week on Monday, and that is why I informed myself that the constitutional complaint would be filed against the passages of the mandatory covid vaccination decree that, in our view, the covid vaccination should be voluntary, not mandatory - so he has already filed the constitutional complaint. So within the week, the SPD has made a concrete step for more than three million citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm glad to say this here, and I want to thank Mr. Ombudsman, so I want to thank many thousands of Czech citizens who have downloaded the letter, filled it out and sent it to Brno for the Ombudsman. Of course, as I said before, the SPD movement - I have already said this in the past - tried to file a constitutional complaint separately, because, as you know, only four subjects can file a constitutional complaint on this matter, either 25 Members, 10 Senators, an Ombudsman or a government. I'll start from the back. Of course, the government does not want to submit it, because the Fialův Government itself does not want to cancel the compulsory vaccination decree, which Babišův's government introduced, we also did not agree to. Well, we're not here in the Senate, we have 20 MPs as an SPD MP, so we're down to five MPs. We called on five Members, five signatures, not to be delivered by Members of other political parties. They don't want to, because you're promoting mandatory covid vaccinations, all except the SPD, so we have no choice but to turn to the Ombudsman. That's what we did, and the Ombudsman's already filed that constitutional complaint. So the specific result of the SPD's activities in this matter for millions of Czech citizens. Now it is important that the Constitutional Court decide and create pressure. That means, even if by mid-February, as Minister Válek said, the five-police government decided to cancel the compulsory vaccination decree, I am glad that it is thanks to the SPD that we have finally created pressure. It will be our credit, because when I was in the Party of Prima in the face of the Minister of Health of Válek and I asked him about it, he didn't want to cancel the decree. So the government doesn't want to, we create pressure, and I hope that's how it's gonna turn out. We do not agree with the introduction of mandatory covid vaccination for groups 60+ and selected professional groups. I don't understand how someone can introduce mandatory covid vaccinations against voluntary firefighters. And here I want to ask the mayors for the STAN movement, who are the mayors of the communities where it is - I looked there - 600 inhabitants, 800, 900, 1,000, 1,200 inhabitants. Are you really able to look in the face, members of the STAN movement, at the order of these small villages to your voluntary firefighters when you agree to their mandatory covid vaccination? Well, that sounds really crazy to me! And it needs to be said that among the members of the STAN movement are the mayors of these small municipalities, and it must be said that they support here by not voting for the inclusion of our point, for the inclusion of the SPD, to discuss here in order to adopt the resolution proposed by the SPD. I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies instructs the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek to cancel the mandatory covid vaccination order with immediate effect. " We don't want to talk about this for long, to this point. It is only necessary for the votes of the government coalition, including the members and mayors of the STAN movement, who are here in the hall to pass the item now, to vote on this resolution. It could take three minutes. But if the members of the government coalition, including the mayors of the STAN movement, the mayors of the small municipalities, block it, that means supporting mandatory covid vaccinations for voluntary firefighters, which you have in small municipalities. So I would like to stress this, and I will stress this constantly until the municipal elections, of course, because this is, of course, a clear position in this case, and it needs to be shown by the vote. That's the point. Like I said, point one, point two. I will hand over to the President - Mr President, I will hand over the signed sheets here. We have it here in the House document so you can have it at your disposal, that I'm proposing it on the basis of the signatures, we have the 40 signatures. [[The Member will not reach the President from the microphone, Prime Minister Fiala helps with the handover of the sheets.]] I thank the Prime Minister for his help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u3	Thank you. I'll just recap. President Okamura has proposed two points. The first point - the establishment of an investigation committee called STAN's financing investigation. He suggested it as the first point of today's negotiations. As a second point he proposed a point entitled Cancellation of the section of the compulsory vaccination decree. He suggests this as the second point of our action. I had an appointment here with Mr Cogan's priority right. Prime Minister, you have the floor. I remind you, we're in a meeting meeting meeting. [[Mrs Schiller's response is that she has been logged in earlier.]] I'm sorry, so if President Schillerová applied earlier, of course the President is first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yes, I applied, I won't be long. The first thing is that I want to comment on what President Okamura has just said. We actually signed the YES movement to set up an investigation committee, so I'm confirming it here. It's on those papers that have just been handed over to you, Mr. Vice-President. And I'd like to ask you very much, because we need to set up some organizational things across the political spectrum, so I'd like to ask you for 15 minutes' break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u5	Do you want that break until... now, or...? Okay. So I'm declaring a 15-minute break, meet you at 9:35.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u6	It's 9:35 p.m., the announced recess for the club meeting is over. I'll just fill in the apology from today's meeting. Mr Michal Zuna apologises between 9 a.m. and 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 9 a.m. to 10 apologize to Minister Langšádlová for the whole day for health reasons and for family reasons today, Mr Heller apologizes for family reasons. Then let's get back to the agenda. I have a written application from President Schillerová. Mrs. President Schillerová applied, I have a written application for the agenda, so are you interrupting it? Madam President Schillerová cancels her application. Mrs. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová also cancels her application for a draft agenda, and another written application for a agenda is from Mr. Cogan. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u7	Colleagues and fellow Members, I would like to propose the abolition of the fixed inclusion of points at 13.30, with these voting points being firmly included as paragraphs 3 and 4 of today's negotiations. At the same time, I would like to comment on the proposal made by my colleague Tomio Okamura. We here yesterday, in those days, made it clear how STAN would proceed. It is clearly clear that there has been no illegal financing by STAN, and it has not been at all that STAN has been financed from abroad in any way. We may not have had information about the prosecution from our colleagues, nor could we have, and we have made it clear that we will verify all the donations received, and if their connection with criminally prosecuted persons is confirmed, we will return the gifts in question. The position here was clearly expressed by us. Since we don't have access to these criminal matters, we didn't have that information. That's why we're just gonna clear this thing up, and that's how we're gonna get it. Otherwise, I think we've had quite enough of this political show. We want him to continue his work, the work we have as the House of Deputies. We have government priorities here, we want this to be work stuff. We have a construction law here, we have a correspondence option here. In view of this, I propose or lecture an objection for STAN, ODS, Pirates, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL to the draft pursuant to § 54 para. 6 and thus veto the inclusion of proposal number 1, submitted by colleague Tomio Okamura for inclusion in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u8	Mr President, to recapitulate this, you first proposed the abolition of the solid inclusion of points 60 and 61 that we were supposed to have at 13.30, and you are proposing that this be the third and fourth points of our negotiations, that is your proposal. And for others, you've brought in the commission of inquiry to be included. So on this inclusion, we will not vote on this point. The President Jakob shall continue to report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on the second point proposed by my colleague Tomio Okamura. This concerns the vaccination regulation. I regret, then, that my colleague has just left the hall because I wanted to justify what I will then present, that is, that Minister Válek is duly excused from today's meeting. I don't think there's any way to place points on such short notice when it comes to a particular minister. We do not oppose the debate, however, for the next time, so that the discussion can be real at all, about some and visa forward, so that it can be agreed. That's not really a hectic way to deal with it. Notabene, on the point of fact, the Minister, following the Government's meeting, announced that this matter would be adjusted by mid-February. However, that is why I said, before we agreed, and on behalf of five government clubs, i.e. ODS, KDU, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, I veto this proposal to place a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Okamura, President of Okamura, applied with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been warned that in my proposal to set up a committee to investigate the funding of the STAN movement at one time, I have said by mistake that the ANO movement was being said, but, of course, it concerns the Chamber of Deputies' committee of inquiry to investigate the financing of the STAN movement. So, a, we want to investigate if the investigation board of the government coalition agrees, so I'd better read those four points one more time, because they say I misjudged in one place, now I don't know exactly which one. [[9.40 hours]] So (a) we want to investigate who are the end owners of the companies that sent STAN's sponsorship donations in time period 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022. (b) we want to examine the property structure and origin of the companies that sent STAN's sponsorship donations in time period 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022. (c) we would like to investigate that the House's commission of inquiry examines whether any sponsorship donations provided during the period of time of 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022 has been properly taxed. They're donations from the STAN movement. (d) we want the House Committee of Investigation to examine whether any sponsorships provided during the period of time of 1. 1. 2017 to 10. 1. 2022 were provided by STAN in accordance with the law. And it does not concern the YES movement at all, but that we are here two opposition parties, so the proposal is based on the signatures of the ANO and the SPD members. So even for the tape screen, even for any clarification, I'd like to repeat everything again, and I apologize to the STAN parliamentary movement. I guess the mess that was going on here, I just... [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'm sorry, the YES movement, the YES parliamentary movement, everyone's calling out to me and... [[Applause and laughter in the hall.]] It's a mess here today, because there are some internal agreements going on here, so I overheard about the construction law, the correspondence choice, and the one with that one, and the one with that one - God knows what's going on here today for the deals, so I apologize to the ANO MP. And, of course, that committee of inquiry concerns the STAN movement, and that is what we will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u12	Thank you very much. That was Mr Okamura. Please, Prime Minister of the Pirate Club, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u13	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to ask if you could, Mr President Okamura, through the President, let us know when the House Press was delivered to all Members so that we could discuss it today as the first item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u14	Thank you, that was Mr. Michálek. Mr. Chairman reporting? No. So, once again, President Michálek is claiming the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u15	We are not concerned about the matter Mr Okamura is proposing. However, it is necessary to maintain some staff culture so that the agenda of the Assembly of Deputies is predictable. That means the building bill, the correspondence option, has been put in place today, so only if Mr. Okamura can complete this for the form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u16	Thank you. Mr Okamura is also reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u17	It is inserted as House document 263. Thank you. And anyway, we would have voted on that point. It's in there, 263. You can check it out, you're probably not totally online, or maybe you are, but here it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u18	Mr Michálek, President of the Council of Ministers, is hereby rejoined with the right of priority. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor. It's not possible to come up with such essential things as a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry when we haven't even read the document to put it first! Excuse me, but such things, please - if you want to function as a real opposition force, you need to come up with it in advance, consult us so that we have enough time to get to know this document at all. Thank you. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u20	Thank you. The President of the Fiala is also reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u21	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Michálek, through the President, Mr President or Member, I did not see that coming! I was expecting you to say, "Well done! The investigation committee will be here! [[Let's hear it for the left.]] Because we want to know how it is! We want to know if we had a campaign paid out of money laundered in Cyprus. We're in favour of transparency and purity, we've always said it like pirát! We are the young wind in the House!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-000-000.u22	Thank you. That was Chairman Fiala. Anyone else reporting? I'll remind you that we're at the agenda point. Anyone else on the agenda? That's not the case, so we're going to take a vote, and I have two proposals here at this point. One proposal is for President Okamura to abolish the passage of the compulsory vaccination decree. So we'd vote first... [[It was vetoed.]] ... vetoed, and the establishment of an investigation committee is also vetoed, so these are unvoted proposals. The only point we are going to vote on is President Cogan's proposal to abolish the solid inclusion of item 60 and item 61, these are voting points, with that being the third and fourth point of our negotiations today. However, according to the approved agenda of the meeting, this is the entry for item 7. Just to clarify what kind of change this is. Okay. I'm gonna sing because we're gonna vote on the agenda. And I think we can start the vote. We all know what we are voting on: President Cogan's proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 48 175 Members were enrolled. 170 Members voted in favour, no one opposed it. The proposal was accepted and we cancelled the fixed classification of item 60 and item 61. That's how we dealt with changing the agenda for our meeting. I have one more apology. She apologizes to Mrs Golasowská for personal reasons for today's meeting since 13.30. And we can proceed according to the approved agenda of our meeting today. [[9.50 hours]] We're going to discuss
