ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-000-000.u1	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I begin the second day of the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that Mr Babiš has asked the following Members to excuse his absence at the hearing from 16.15 to 18 hours for Pošarová Marie, Mr Bělor from 16.15 to 18 hours for working reasons, Mr Bžoch from the full working day - foreign travel, Mr Dufek from the full working day - business trip, Mr Exner Martin from the full working day - health reasons, Mr Fiala Radim from the full Wenzl Hayato - health Válková, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová from the full working day, Mr Fifka Petr from the foreign trip, Mr Fridrich Stanislav from the full Vojtko Viktor for health reasons, Mr Hanzlíková Jana from the whole family day - health reasons, Mr Šimon Šimon from the working day to the full working day, from the 11 hour to tomorrow morning, 9 hours, Mr Igor Hendrych from the full working day for work reasons, Mr Kolovrtilík Martin, for the Šebelová Michaela of the foreign travel, Mr Major Martin, from the full working day, from the full working day, from the full working day for the reasons of Mrs. [[right Milan]] Minister Bartoš apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Bek apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Černochová apologizes for the whole day of the meeting because of the foreign trip, Minister Hubáčková apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Kupka apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Langšádlová Helena apologizes for the whole day of work, Minister Lipavskýý Jan apologises for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Nekula apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, Minister Síkela also apologizes for the whole working day and finally, for the reasons of the foreign trip, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura apologises for the whole day of the meeting. Today's negotiations should start with firmly classified points, which is point 14, pension insurance, second reading; Point 13, provision of benefits to disabled persons, also second reading; point 70, residence of foreigners, first reading; point 28, association in political parties and movements, first reading; point 12, right to digital services, second reading; item number 11, measures against the spread of terrorist content online, second reading, and item number 22, on pedagogical workers, first reading. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda. Now I'm asking if there's anyone who wants to sign up with a proposal to amend the approved 41st meeting? I don't see anyone making a motion to change the agenda. So we will continue with the approved programme, i.e. the fixed points. And as a first point, we should discuss
