ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u1	78. Government bill on pan-European personal pension product and amendment of related laws (Pan-European personal pension product law) /house print 61/ - third reading I thank the Minister of Health and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee for taking up positions at the rapporteur's table. [[correctly finance]] At this point, I will ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, for an opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the third reading. I have presented the bill in more detail in the first and second readings, so I merely recall that it is a voluntary product, a pan-European pension product that extends the range of options that citizens of the Czech Republic and other Member States of the European Union receive. There was no amendment during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u3	Thank you, too. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, for the moment. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u4	Good afternoon, colleagues. I will limit myself only to reading the resolutions of the Guarantee Budget Committee, which we adopted on 9 February. We discussed the motion on the committee. I believe that even now we all know what we may be voting on. The Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies voted in third reading and we also proposed a procedure. So for me, this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u5	I'm sure we can get to that. I must say that, however, there has been a motion for rejection in this House press, which is mentioned in the Houses of the Press 61/2 and which was delivered on 26 January 2022. At this point, I would like to open the debate because we have already had the opening words here. I'm gonna ask if anyone's joining the debate? I see Mr. Hrnčíř, I ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Member Jan Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't know if the rapporteur wants anything technical. [[After you.]] Okay. Dear colleagues, although there are some arguments about this product or, let us say, the press, which is to put into practice the regulation on pan-European personal pension product, has already been heard, I consider it still this - I have marked it with weeds from the European Union, which has once again fallen to us, I consider it again to be a completely redundant standard. We really need a pension reform here, that's true, but this complicated amendment, this complicated press, is basically not gonna bring us anything positive. We must address the issue of pensions and population ageing at national level, and these Euro-Federation projects cannot in any way help us. Another such Euro-Federation project is also a union of financial markets, that is point 17, that will be in a moment, I will also comment on that. The European Commission stated in the justification of this proposal for a regulation that the proposed legislation aims to lay the foundations for a safer, more cost-effective and transparent market for voluntary pension savings managed on a European scale. I am convinced that commercial insurance companies, which today offers pension products, can choose from a wide range of clients, and I do not think that it is entirely necessary to implement these things. [[11.10 hours]] According to the European Commission, fragmentation of the European market prevents providers of personal pension products from maximizing diversification of risks and introducing innovation and economies of scale. According to the European Commission, the regulation is also intended to help address the demographic crisis. I do not know how this commercial product should address the demographic crisis. They say it's supposed to complement existing products, promote cost efficiency and other things. In my opinion, it is once again a misconception of this process. Another objective is also to move more household savings from traditional instruments such as deposits to capital markets. Of course, we know how turbulent capital markets are, what changes are there, what huge risks are there. This means massive transfers of savings from our citizens and households towards capital markets also bring some risks. In a short time, in about two minutes, I will remind you what the pan-European pension product is. According to the preamble to the Regulation, this is a product of unemployed pension insurance of individuals, to which a participant in a pan-European pension product voluntarily undertakes to serve long-term accumulation of capital, while the possibility of early withdrawal should be limited and may be sanctioned. Article 2 of the Regulation contains both the definition of a personal pension product and a pan-European pension product. Among other things, it introduces an obligation for insurance companies to set up so-called sub-accounts for individual states of the European Union, which means, of course, this very bureaucratic mechanism also increases the costs of managing these products, which will, of course, be passed on to both financial institutions and, of course, to clients. So I would ask you once again, my fellow Members, to support my motion for a rejection, and to really support this complicated, unnecessary, redundant standard, our legal order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u7	Thank you, Mr. Jan Hrnčíř. I will confirm that Mr Jan Hrnčíř has just submitted a motion to reject the proposal at second reading on 26 January 2022. At this point, the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, is reporting. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u8	I will just add that the current proposed date of application of the law, as you may have noticed, appears to be at risk in the light of the legislative process, therefore in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Act. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I propose a change in the law's effectiveness, and I will read to you the section in question - Section 29 would therefore be new to the fact that this law takes effect on the 15th day following its publication. I hope that's clear. Of course, it is also translated into the proposed procedure, which I will read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u9	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is joining the debate? I don't see anyone in the hall, so I'm ending the debate right now. I'm gonna go ahead and ask if there's an interest in the Minister's final word? It's not. [[The rapporteur is waiting at the speaker's desk.]] Before I give you my word, rapporteur, or if you're going to lead me through the rejection vote? I think it will be your turn to deal with the vote to reject the bill that fell on January 26, 2022 at second reading. So we have to deal with this vote first. I'll ask... He's here, I see, a motion for a check-out. I would like to unsubscribe all of you at this moment and ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. So again, for all Members of Parliament: we will vote on this motion to reject the bill here at second reading and on this motion to reject it at this time. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? Voting number 118, 153 Members were enrolled, 19 opposed were 130, 4 abstained. The motion was not accepted. This means that the proposal was not rejected. I would like to apologize to the Minister and the rapporteur for not asking them for their positions, but I assume that when they present this proposal here, they certainly did not have a positive opinion. I see that he reported to me with a factual remark by Mr Munzar - he withdrew it or perhaps there was an error. So we have dealt with a motion for a rejection that has not been accepted, and we are therefore continuing to discuss this House press at third reading. Now, I would like the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u10	In the Guarantee Budget Committee, we have approved the procedure: first the vote on the motion for rejection, we have already dealt with this, second the question of voting on legislative technical adjustments, if they are tabled at third reading, that is my amendment, which I have read, and third, if the bill is not rejected, the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-004-078.u11	Thank you. I will ask if there are only two proposals - that means we will vote on legislative technical adjustments and then vote on the proposal as a whole - whether you want to vote on this procedure or whether the consensus of all Members is and do you agree with this proposal? There is no objection, so at this point we will vote immediately on the first proposal, and that we will vote on the legislative technical amendments, yes, which the rapporteur has tabled here. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who abstained? Voting number 119, registered by 158 Members, for 140, against 17, one abstained. The motion was accepted. So we voted on legislative technical adjustments and we should now vote on the bill as a whole. [[Newsletter: Yes.]] Will I ask the Minister for an opinion? [[Agreed.]] Will I ask the rapporteur? [[The Committee on Budgets recommends.]] Thank you very much. So I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft bill on a pan-European personal pension product and the amendment of related laws, according to the House press 61, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Act on pan-European personal pension product]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. And who abstained? During the vote number 120 162 Members were enrolled, for it was 145, against it was 17, no one stayed. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[11.20 hours]] This concludes the discussion of this House press. I thank the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur, Mrs Urbanová. Now, before I go to the next House press on the agenda, I would like to read an apology, even though it has passed. It is Mrs Barbora Urbanová, who apologized from today's day 2. 3. from 9.45 am to 11 pm for work reasons, but it is necessary to read the apology here and properly establish it. So at this point, I see Mrs Urbanová reporting in, I think that's a mistake. Thank you. And now, according to the approved program, we're at the point that is
