ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Babiš Andrej all day - working reasons, Babišová Andrea all day - health reasons, Bělica Josef all day - working reasons, Bělohlávková Romana from 9.30 - working reasons, Bernard Josef all day - working reasons, Burešš Jan full date - working day - Jiří Carbol - working day - Nacher Patrik - working day - working day - working day - Helena Barbora - Válková day, Foldyna Jaroslav whole day - Okamura Hayato - working day - Klára day - working day - Quittová Petra - working day, ryba Jaroslav Drahoslav working day - working day - Dostálová day - medical Zajíčková, Horák Jiří from 9.30 to 10.30 and from 12 to 15 hours - family reasons, Renáta David within 10 hours - family reasons, Kolář Ondřej whole working day - working day - working day - Síla Romana, Krejza Karel whole working day - medical reasons, Krutáková Jana whole day - family reasons - Hendrych Igor, Kubík Jan whole Zlínský - medical Vladimír, Lacina Jan whole day - medical reasons - Wenzl Milan, Lochman Jan whole working day - working day - Aleš vlček - Lukáš day, Jáč Ivan, Stržínek Robert Ondřejjj whole Tomio day - working day - Němečková Crkvenjaš, Okamura sládeček From the members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel the whole day - foreign trip, Černochová Jana the whole day - foreign trip, Kupka Martin within 11 hours - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena the whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít the whole day - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk the whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek the whole day - working reasons. I have one more announcement to make. Mr Kučera votes with replacement card number 27. Today's negotiations will begin with the points in this order: paragraph 13, House press 289, school law, first reading; paragraph 5, House press 285, Government bill on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online, second reading; paragraph 6, House press 312, Government bill on association in political parties and political movements, second reading; paragraph 3, House press 106, Government bill on certain services of the information society, second reading; paragraph 4, House press 105, Government bill on product market surveillance, second reading; paragraph 12, House press 288, Government bill on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer, first reading; Point 8, House Press 238, Government Bill on Investment Companies and Investment Funds, first reading; paragraph 24, House Press... Ladies and gentlemen, please at least keep your voice down. Thank you. Paragraph 24, House Print 346, Government Bill on Electronic Communications, First Reading pursuant to Section 90; and paragraph 68, House Print 165, Senate Bill on the Residence of Foreigners in the Czech Republic, First Reading. Alternatively, we would continue with other points according to the approved programme. And now I'm asking if anyone is interested in a performance to change the approved agenda of the 48th meeting. Mr. Chairman Cogan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose one amendment to those listed points that have already been said here. I propose to move point 24, print 346, the government proposal on electronic communications, which is now listed as the eighth point of today's programme, to the fourth point of today's programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-000-000.u3	Yes, thank you. I still have the application from President Michálek for a draft programme. He's downloading, thank you. I'm asking if anyone else has a motion to amend the approved agenda for the 48th meeting? It's not like that. I will call my colleagues from the front and we will vote on President Cogan's proposal, which proposes item 24, House Press 346, which is the Government's proposal for the Electronic Communications Act, first reading, to include today as the fourth item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 67 117 Members and Members of Parliament, for 68, against 1. The motion was accepted. And now we would open point number
