ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record your participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 104 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 18 November 2022. I have begun to engage because we will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček as the verifier of today's meeting. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 103 Members voted in favour of the vote number 1 and 96 voted in favour, and there was no one against it. And I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček. I declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the sitting: Adamec Ivan the whole day - without giving any reason, Mr Andrej Babiš the whole day of the sitting for work reasons, Mr Bašta Jaroslav from 11.30 for work reasons and until 10.00 for health reasons, Mr Bauer the whole day of the hearing for work reasons, Mr Bělica the whole day of the hearing for work reasons, Mrs Bělohlávková Romana the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Bělor Roman from 9.30 to 13 hours for working reasons, Mr Benešík Ondřej the whole day of the hearing for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Berki Jan the whole day of the hearing for family reasons, Mr Blaha Stanislav the whole day for working reasons, Mr Burešš Exner Martin from 13:30 to 18:00 for Jan reasons, Mr. Fridrich Stanislav for the Dražilová day of the meeting on a foreign trip, Mr. Gazdík Petr for the whole day for health reasons, Mr. Haas Karel for the whole day for family reasons, Mr. Hájek Jiří within 12 hours for working Lenka, Mr. Janda Jakub for the whole day for family reasons, Mr. KaňkovskKaňkovský For Vít of health, Mr. Olšáková, Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr.D., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr.D., Mr., for reasons of the Hayato reason of the entire Milan day for Jan of the case, Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr.D.D.D.D., Mr.D.D., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., on the Karel day for Špičák for Karel of the Richter Eliška, Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mádlová the full Jiří Strýček, Mr., Mr., Mr.D.D.D.D., on the full Richterová Renata for Stržínek for Vaňková for Ivo of the full Potůčková Lucie, Mr.D.D., Mr., Mr.D.D.D.D., Mr.D., from the Vondrák Róbert for Jakub for Josef for Vlček for Lukáš of the Tomáš David Zuna for reasons, Mr., Mr.D., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Sládeček, Mr., Wenzl, Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., Mr., from the full Metnar Král for Karel for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons for Michal for Krutáková for reasons for Minister Balaš Vladimír apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day of the hearing for the reasons of work, Vice Prime Minister Bartoš Ivan for the whole working day, Minister Bek Mikuláš for the whole working day, Minister Blažek Pavel for the whole working day, Minister Langšádlová Helena for the whole working day, Minister Lipavskýý Jan for the whole working day, Minister Nekula Zdeněk for the whole working day, Vice Prime Minister Rakušan Vít for the whole day of the meeting for the reasons of the foreign trip, Minister Šalomoun Michal for the reasons of employment from 11.30 and finally Minister Válek until 11.00 for the reasons of work. I have yet to report that Mr. Mr. Síla is canceling today's apology. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 46th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Anyone with priority rights? It's not like that. Those are priority rights up to the approved program. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole proposal for the 46th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented to you in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 131 Members were voted in favour of 102, against 4. The agenda has been approved. Let me just ask you, I have some factual points here, but my colleagues have probably abstained in the vote, so I'm going to erase them. Mrs Balaštíková - is she voting? So please, madam, if you want to use the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-000-000.u2	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I question the vote because I am not sure it did not shine on me, so I do not know whether I voted or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-25-ps2021-046-01-000-000.u3	You're questioning the vote. Okay. So we're going to vote on the objection. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such an objection to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 133 Members voted in favour of 129. [[Against 1.]] Objection received. We will repeat the vote on the agenda for today's meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion, just as he's been submitted to you, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 134 Members voted in favour of 88, against 4. [[On the board: 40.]] The draft agenda has been approved. [[9.10 hours]] So we can proceed to item 1, which is
