ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-004-007.u1	7. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment /German press 56/ - second reading The proposal put forward, please state Anna Hubáčková as the applicant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-004-007.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Mrs Berenika Peštová for the proposal for a procedural merger of these prints. Once again, they are very closely related prints, sharing a legislative path. This amendment law is in second reading, and I'm just going to give it very briefly. This bill also ensures the transposition of the resolution of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. It shall focus in particular on the rights and obligations of persons placing packaging on the market or putting it into circulation in order to fulfil the objectives of the Directive and shall make the necessary legislative technical adaptations. In particular, the following measures are proposed: firstly, the setting of targets for ensuring the sorted collection of plastic beverage bottles - from 1 January 2025 at least 75 per cent of the weight of such packaging and from 1 January 2029 at least 90 per cent of the weight of such packaging. Then determination of the mandatory recyclable content in plastic bottles - PET bottles will have to contain at least 25 per cent of recycled plastic from 2025 and all plastic bottles of up to 3 litres will have to contain at least 30 per cent of recycled plastics from 2030. Plastic containers for beverages of a capacity of up to 3 litres may be placed on the market from July 2024 only if the caps and lids are attached to the container. In addition, new obligations for persons placing the packaging on the market or into circulation: in particular, they will cover cleaning costs for municipalities. Measures to reduce consumption of drinking cups and plastic food containers and to significantly simplify the introduction of voluntary backup for beverage manufacturers. The Ministry led the discussion on the possible introduction of mandatory backup of PET bottles and aluminium cans. It organized two round tables, and the debate was held on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. We express our will to continue to address this proposal. Even with this proposal, what is true of the House's draft press 55 means that its transposition period has already expired last year and an infringement procedure against the Czech Republic has been initiated. Thank you for the good debate in the committees, on round tables, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-004-007.u3	Thank you for presenting the proposal. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 56/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Berenika Peštová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-004-007.u4	Thanks again for the word. Madam President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment No. 38 of 13 April 2022 on the Government's proposal to limit the impact of selected plastic products on the environment, House press 56: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Environment . Vladimír Mana, M, intelligence report by . Berenika Peštová, ., and after the debate the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted" - which I would like to refer to the House press number 56/2, which has been electronically delivered to you; "II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment; IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. [[10.00 hours]] I will briefly explain to you the main amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment. So, in addition to a number of legislative technical amendments, we have also shifted the effectiveness of the bill on the 1st day of the second calendar month following the date of its publication. In addition, we proposed to entrust the competence to control the obligation under Section 12a of the Act on Packaging of the Czech Environmental Inspection instead of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. We have also adjusted the obligation of the authorised packaging company to ensure the level of the average costs of municipalities in such a way that the authorised packaging company will detect the costs of municipalities not only for the operation of the recovery systems but also for the recovery of packaging waste. Finally, we have proposed, among other things, to provide that if the obligations arising from the Packaging Act are presented to customers in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 13, paragraph 1. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (b) the packaging law may be fulfilled by the customer for the person placing the packaging on the market as well as obligations relating to the compulsory share of recycled plastics, provided that they are carried out by an authorised packaging company. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-004-007.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now I'm opening
