ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-29-ps2021-017-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 17th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I don't have that kind of announcement yet. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies with an extension of the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, March 24, 2022. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that we designate Mrs Milada the Voborská verifier and Mr Zdeněk Kettner as the verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'll go on and call my colleagues. And I think we can proceed to the vote. I have begun the vote on the verifiers of this meeting. Who is for these verifiers? Who's against it? 103 Members and Members voted in favour of 99 against 0. I note that we have appointed the verifiers of the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Zdeněk Kettner. I also say that until the beginning of the meeting they asked to apologize for their absence from the proceedings by the following Members: Markéta Pekarová Adamová - foreign travel, apologizes within 17 hours, Věra Adámková until 1045 hours for reasons of work, Andrej Babiš apologizes for reasons of work, Andrea Babišová - Nováková grounds, Jana Bureš - working grounds, Jan Bartošek - Metnar grounds, Roman Bělor from 12.30 to 18.30 hours - Vojtěch Munzar, Jana Berkovcová from 12 to 15 hours - health reasons, Milan Brázdil - working grounds, Jan Lacina - health Vildumetzová, Klára Dostálová - foreign trip, Jaroslav Dvořák - working grounds, Martina Lisová - foreign trip, Milan Feranec - medical Malá, Nina Ferenc - health reasons, Romana Fischerová - working Taťána, Michael Kohoutek - working grounds, Václav Král - working grounds, králíček Martin, Major Fridrich - health reasons, Matěj Ondřej Havel until 13.30 hours - working grounds. We continue with our apologies: Eliška Olšáková - health reasons, Renata Oulehlová - working reasons, Jana Pastuchová - health reasons, Lucie Potůčková from 15.15 hours to 16.45 hours - working reasons, David Pražák - health reasons, Petra Quittová - health reasons, Michael Rataj - working reasons, Michal Ratiborský - health reasons, Rudolf Salvetr - working reasons, Pavel Staněk - working reasons, Jiří Strýček - working reasons, Julius Špičák - health reasons, Barbora Urbanová by 12.30 hours - working reasons, Helena Válková by 12.30 - working reasons, Radovan Vích - working reasons, Vít Vomáčka - working reasons, Ivo Vondrák - working reasons, Petr Vrána - foreign trip, Milan Wenzl - health reasons, Vladimír Zlínský - family reasons, Michal Zuna - working reasons and Jan Skopeček - working reasons. From members of the government apologize: Petr Fiala for health reasons, Ivan Bartoš for work reasons, Mikuláš Bek for work reasons, Pavel Blažek for work reasons, Jana Černochová for health reasons, Petr Gazdík for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý for foreign travel reasons, Zdeněk Nekula for work reasons, Jozef Síkela for work reasons, Michal Šalomoun for work reasons and Vlastimil Válek for foreign travel reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 2 March 2022 the Government declared from 4 March from midnight, from 00.00 pm, in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic emergency state for 30 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 23 March this year, the government asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large-scale migration wave in the Czech Republic until 31 May 2022 until 23.59 hours. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. And so we will now proceed to our own agenda of the 17th meeting, as shown on the invitation. I advise that I have priority rights, with the fact that I want to ask whether they are actually intended to go to point 1 after the approval of the agenda, or whether there is still an interest in speaking on the agenda? [[No one's checking in.]] Therefore, since there is no interest in speaking on the agenda, we can vote on the whole proposal for a agenda of the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll reengage and call my colleagues and colleagues to the ballroom. We all know what we're going to vote on. I am opening the vote on the whole proposal for a agenda of the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Who's in? Who's against it? 128 Members and Members voted in favour of 106, against 13. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. [[10.10 hours]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we can therefore proceed to paragraph 1, which is
