ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 67/2013 Sb., which regulates certain questions relating to the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential spaces in the house with apartments, as amended /house print 1929 - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We have interrupted this item in the general debate on 7 July of this year at the 31st meeting. I would remind you that at the hearing of this press pursuant to § 90 para. 2 were vetoed by two parliamentary clubs, YES 2011 and SPD. I ask that the seats at the tables of the rapporteurs be taken on behalf of the plaintiff, the apologized Vice-President of the Government and the Minister for Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš, Minister Šalomoun and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Havránek. We will now continue the interrupted general debate in which Members of Klára Dostálová joined, which was also interrupted during their speech, but is now excused. Mr Bartoš, who is also excused, is also registered with the facts, and Mrs Pošarová and Mrs Fialová are added to the general debate. Since, therefore, Mrs Klára Dostálová is excused from today, and I now believe that Mrs, yes, Mrs Pošarová is also excused, Mrs Fialová comes to the table in the general debate. And then I see the subsequently logged in... or with priority rights, Mr. Chairman? [[This is Chairman Michálek.]] Favorite law. Then the lady will wait. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u2	I'm sorry, colleague, I suggest we shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u3	Okay, thank you. We will then vote on this proposal. I shall now ask the lady in the general debate and you, my colleagues, once again request a silence. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u4	Thank you. Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, Mr President, fellow Members. I have applied here for this point because for many years I have been on the committee as a member of SVJ - an association of housing owners of units - and the proposed modification is not entirely ideal for the service itself and for any increased costs. I fully agree with the proposal that she has sent to a number of Members...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u5	Madam, I apologise, but I will once again ask my fellow Members for peace, and if they do not do so, I will begin to name who should be more specific, because the noise is really too great and the Member does not have enough peace to perform. Once again, I'm asking you to lower your voice and move the conversations into the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u6	I'll just, Madam President, point out that we skipped the point. There's another one hanging on the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u7	Oh, I'm sorry, that's probably what's causing it here, too. Thank you. Everything's fixed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u8	I would like to identify myself with the opinion that has come from many Members from the representatives of the cooperatives and the community of owners who have sent a long-term analysis on how the amendment should be adapted. Even after consultations with the MMR and directly with Minister Bartoš, they were not reflected in their recommendations. For this reason, we have given the veto to discuss in the 90th since the actual readings of heat and water itself, providing online information will cause considerable problems for both service providers themselves or administrators who make this settlement, as well as the managers of individual housing units, cooperatives and municipalities themselves. So let me quote some of the things that have been put forward and which have been consulted with the MMR itself, when representatives have dealt with the MMR in the long term, unfortunately, most of the comments have been rejected. The representatives of the housing fund managers are concerned that if the current amendment to Act No. 67/2013 Sb., on services, adopted in the proposed form, will have a fatal impact on the activities of all housing fund managers, i.e. not only housing houses and associations of owners of units, but also cities and municipalities. As a fundamental comment to the proposal, § 8A para. Where representatives challenge the obligation of a service provider to provide service recipients with information on current energy consumption at monthly intervals, one of the routes is to allow remote access to such information to the service recipients. However, there is no obligation to inform the recipient of the services on a regular basis once a month. They are of the opinion that it is sufficient to inform the recipient of the services only once, which is at the time when the service is started or when the person concerned becomes the recipient of the services by moving into the apartment, and the service provider assigns it unique access data to the system in this context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u9	I will ask you once again, Madame, I apologize, but the noise is still not decreasing, and it actually applies to the entire Chamber of Deputies, all the clubs. Colleagues and colleagues, if you have anything to deal with, for the third time, I'm asking you to move to the lobby. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u10	Representatives also point out that they do not know any other area of legislation, which would similarly make senseless and repeated obligation to any entity. [[Where?]] If the proposal is not modified, it means for all housing fund managers, cooperatives, as I have already said, communities, municipalities, as well as private owners, the obligation to send information to all service recipients each month about the fact that they can look at their current energy consumption in this place and the password below. How will this regular communication take place? Electronically? None of the users of the apartments, the owner or the tenant is given an obligation to communicate the house manager's e-mail address. In some cases, he does not even have it when it comes to the elderly. And if it does not provide it, will the administrator send a letter twice a year to the recipient of the services? Normal or recommended? Who's gonna pay for all this? The Ministry of Regional Development has repeatedly rejected the proposal, with the need to literally comply with the text of the relevant directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and implement the follow-up recommendations completely in its proposal. When you look at the pages of the European Union, where there is an interpretation of how Member States are to approach the regulations of individual directives, the recommendation is directly given 'Recommendation is not binding'. By means of recommendations, the EU institutions can express their opinion and propose certain steps without deriving from them a legal obligation to whom it is addressed. For this reason, I do not understand why the MMR is constantly rejecting the comments of individual associations on this bill, and shamelessly insists that this obligation will be anchored and given to the service providers themselves. Furthermore, in the directive itself, you refer to the article, the full text recommended by that directive, the distinction between the provision and disclosure of information, is a requirement that, where remote deductible meters or indicators for the distribution of heating costs are installed, information on billing or consumption based on actual consumption or deducted indicators for the distribution of heating costs at more frequent than annual intervals must be provided to end-users. The Commission notes that the legislator has deliberately left the means of providing information open and, at the same time, clearly divided between the provision of information and its disclosure. The basic requirement is to provide information to the user. This can be done on paper or by electronic means such as e-mail. Information may also be made available via the Internet and via interfaces such as Internet portals or smartphone applications, but in such cases the end-user must be alerted at those regular intervals in a certain way, otherwise the information cannot be considered to be provided by end-users with a given frequency but only as made available. However, the mere disclosure of information leaves their search to end users and would not be in line with the overall objective of this part of the revised Energy Efficiency Directive, which is to raise the awareness of end users about their consumption. This fine but important difference should also be stressed because the legislator has indicated optional additional disclosure of information via the Internet after a key requirement to provide information at regular intervals. They can also be made available via the Internet and updated as often as the measuring devices and systems used allow. The term "also " was not used in the sense of" instead " but as an indication of other possibilities. Any other interpretation would leave too much room for alignment and use of systems that do not allow time feedback, thereby circumventing the essential requirement and endangering the achievement of the main objective of the revised Energy Efficiency Directive. This interpretation also confirms the use of the term "can instead' in point 3 of Annex 7A, in which the legislator clearly intended that the provisions constitute alternatives. In short, permanent disclosure of information via the Internet is not an alternative or sufficient means to meet the requirement set out in point 2 of Annex 7A to provide more frequent than annual information unless combined with any type of active notification to the end user at the required intervals. [[10.20 hours]] The Union also proposes to postpone the effectiveness of this provision by two years, that is to 1. 1. 2025. Today we are at first reading, and if it passes § 90, which is already out of date, its effectiveness could first be from 1. 8. 2022, and subsequently the approval of the Senate, and service providers would only have five months to fulfil their obligations. So it's already clear that because the 90's are closing in, it's not possible to implement this to 1. 1. 2023 to make it. Therefore, I ask whether it would be possible to re-evaluate the effectiveness from 1. 1. 2025, so that both cooperatives, associates, municipalities, private individuals, do not get into a fatal situation. And I leave the providers of possible software and other service services entirely aside. If we look at the statistical office where we are based on numbers from the census 2011 - because the current data are not yet available - according to the results of this census, there were a total of 2 257 978 flats in apartment houses in 2011. Of this number, 1 749 183 had central heating for which the cost of the consumer should be settled. Of which 1.47 million flats are supplied by heat either remotely or from house gas boiler rooms. It can therefore be assumed that all these apartments, i.e. 1,17 million flats, fall under the jurisdiction of the law. The total number of meters and indicators in the apartments is about 7 million. One apartment has an average of 3.5 radiators and 1.4 water meters. No one doubts the obligation that from 1. 1. 2027 shall be equipped with all 7 million gauges by remote subtraction. According to the expert estimate of the leaders of the association, the billing of heat and water costs is now equipped with a maximum of 50 per cent of indicators and meters, which meets the definition of Law No. 406 of 2000, i.e. readings without entering the apartments. Really, the obligation of monthly readings concerns about 3.5 million indicator gauges. At the rate of 12 deductions per year, it is therefore 42 million deductions made during the calendar year, starting in 2023. Unfortunately, only a slim amount of these remote-deductible devices is technically ready for actual long-distance readings. So far, houses are equipped with technology that allows regular readings without a personal presence, but a company worker. Thus far, deductions are made without entry into the apartments once a year at the end of the settlement period. I don't know if anyone has the experience, but at the moment, the readings work so that a technician comes in front of every apartment, pulls out a gauge and downloads the whole apartment, but there's no remote access to sit in an office somewhere. The tech really has to come in front of the house and download all the information from the apartment. Not to mention that in a lot of apartments, when we talk about hot water, these water meters are not equipped with a remote reading and require the presence of a person in the apartment. So each person should once a month arrange for the presence in the apartment and the worker or the caretaker of the apartment to enter his apartment. They usually come in the morning, and because they're some employees and most of the employees are at work, they'd have to take some time off at the moment. But that's just a little point. I'm not going to talk about it when, for the owners of housing units, most of the time, someone is volunteering from their own people, regardless of the fact that they can also be employed and manage this heavy administration and the deadlines are very difficult. I'll keep going. According to the information obtained by the Union in the framework of the survey among members, the proportion of long distance deducted, which are equipped with equipment, is lower. It moves between 30 and 40 per cent. First of all, small cooperatives or communities that make their own settlements have not felt or felt the need to install similar technologies. I'm not gonna talk about it these days when they have to install it, about the additional costs involved. And who's gonna pay for it in the finals? The tenant of the apartment himself. As a specific example, we can mention the situation in the Škoda Plzeň housing cooperative, where the cooperative manages a total of 13 498 flats in about 400 apartment houses. The cooperative is in the position of the manager of foreign property, since the houses were already created after the transfer of originally cooperative flats to the ownership of members of the cooperative legal personality of the community of owners. Any decision in houses is therefore fully within the competence of the Committee of Communities and the Assembly of Owners. According to the team's records, there are 25 211 water meters in the apartments, of which 4 058 allows for long-distance readings - but beware, in an errand, that is, as I have already pointed out here. A similar situation is in the case of heat ratio meters, where out of the total number of approximately 47 000 meters it is able to calculate 13 780 meters by distance. A technology that would allow a real remote reading, this is a data directive and other related equipment, is equipped with only a few houses. It follows from the above that if the amendment to Act No. 67/2013 with effect from 1. 1. 2023, then the Community Committees will have to provide regular monthly readings for about 18,000 meters with the cooperative at present. It is quite certain that in the houses to which this obligation will apply, it will not be possible until 31. 12. 2022 needed technologies to install. The reasons are obvious. The long-term announced lack of relevant facilities, insufficient capacity of implementation firms, rules for the decision-making of housing cooperatives and associations of owners of units, where, in the vast majority of cases, cooperative or community statutes entrust the adoption of the necessary decisions to the highest authority, that is to say, a member meeting or a meeting of owners. These are usually held once a year, in terms of May to June. This means that the decisions needed to install these technologies can be taken at the earliest in the aforementioned months of 2023. I can't imagine if the owners' association didn't agree to this at their meeting. A similar situation is also reported for other members of the Union. Similarly, it can be summed up that within the Association of Czech and Moravian Apartment Cooperatives, approximately 30 to 40 percent of the apartments are equipped with the associated remote reading. The above takes into account only the aspects of the technical readiness of the apartments. A separate chapter is the preparation of the necessary hardware and software equipment, setting all processes related to remote access to the required data, provided that they are safe and protected. These activities will require their time to be put into practice after the amendment has been approved. From this information, when the MMR went beyond it, it implemented recommendations and the Association of Czech and Moravian Housing Cooperatives responds, I do not think that their proposals could be incorporated into the very wording of the law so that access can only be granted once when one moves in, or when transferring and sending the appropriate password. I propose that this law be returned to the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u11	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal. Now also the factual point to which Mrs Peštová is referring. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u12	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I'm not an expert on housing policy, but I listened carefully to my previous speaker, and I'd like to ask the petitioner who's gonna pay for all this? Because, of course, the way I listened to it, the directive says that there must be regular awareness of individual citizens on a monthly basis, that is to say, what consumption they have. And that's not gonna be small money, is it? Like I said, I'm not an expert. I would be quite interested to know how much it will cost if this obligation arises there, and in the finals, who will pay it, if it will be dissolved then into the price, because of course it will be the suppliers of the media who will have to say it or will have to report it every month, so it will certainly not be a small cost, and who will bear the burden of the costs in the finals, because there is one thing that follows me: Yes, it is beautiful, we have transposed the directive, we are probably more papal than the Pope, but in the finals it will probably be paid by the citizen anyway. Does this service necessarily need a citizen to pay for it? We've already received, or some of you may not have been able to access the e-mails, but the citizens are already asking if it's a load for them, because at present, if they want not annual, but maybe once every six months they know what consumption is, they have to pay for the service. So I wonder how much it's gonna cost every month. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u13	Thank you. Now in the general debate - and yet with a factual further one, but I apologise, the Member must wait because Mrs Fialová is reporting with a factual one, and that is first of all. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u14	Thank you. I've been waiting for a while to see if the Ministry will respond, but I understand that there's a minister in the crowd here, so I'm gonna try to answer my colleague. Of course it'll pay the end user of the apartment. As I was on the committee for a long time, just for example, installing one meter on a water meter, basic for personal collection of about 230 crowns, the cheapest on the market. If we're talking about a meter with a long-range subtraction, it's 350 or more depending on how it's offered. To that end, if we add that every month a technician has to come in and subtract it, at the moment, for example heat in front of the apartment, you have to pay for his work, which will, of course, be charged to the costs of managing the housing units, and that means that the repair fund, which is defined for each owner by square meters, has to be automatically raised, and then it has to be approved if there is an increase and the cooperative doesn't make it possible for it to be minus on the basis of these costs, so the whole assembly has to meet and agree to increase the repair fund. That's the whole technology or this whole process that has to happen because of this new regulation. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u15	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Bureš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u16	I thank my colleague for the answer. Now that I've summarized it, we all have some energy supply issues at the moment, we know how prices are rising. So we will also burden individual citizens with this. Well, that's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u17	It is now registered with Mr Bureš's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u18	Thank you. Madam President. I don't want to discuss that my honored colleagues from the Environment Committee could have said this to each other in the bench or in the lobby, not through this microphone, but I'm just pointing out one thing. I'm not a fan of the law here either, and I'm not a fan of the measure here, but I wouldn't completely dramatize it again, because take it, you have to renew those gauges, they're not forever and ever. You have to exchange them, you have to check them, and there's nothing easier to do with such a check than to exchange a meter with a remote reading. Today it is quite common, the associations of owners of apartment units have quite commonly installed meters with remote reading in heating apartments, and then it is sufficient that the technician runs through the house, and they automatically jump into his facility, which he has at his disposal. Another thing, of course, is how to inform the relevant owners of the housing units, if this is supposed to be every month, so I can actually imagine that the chairman of the housing unit owners' association, in most cases the housing units are managed by some real estate agency anyway, so maybe through the real estate agency they get that information. Another thing is, and I agree with that, that it is completely unnecessary information, that it is enough to be provided only once a year. But I wouldn't dramatize it with some extra-high cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u19	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark put forward by Mrs Peštová, subsequently Mrs Fialová. Still factual. And the Minister is applying with priority or de facto, shall I ask? With priority, okay. I'd like to see Mrs Peštová first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u20	So I would like to respond to Mr Bureš, through Madam President. We haven't met, nota bene this doesn't address the environmental committee, which I think we're going to say to ourselves openly that maybe it's more like a public administration committee. But the revisions are once every five years, we all know who has some heating. We're not gonna say they're here every year, or, sorry, the exchange is once every five years. We're having a really monthly conversation here that every month the citizen or the owner of the unit should receive this information. And really, this information is paid for. That's not information you get for nothing. Alone, when I needed to know in the meantime what my consumption was, I had to pay extra for it. It's really not like anyone gave it to me for free. That's why I asked how much this citizen is going to cost, respectively, if we're talking about an essay or a cooperative, if he gets up, like we said here, a repair and maintenance fund, it's really not small money. And what I'm thinking is, where did this saving thought come from? Yes, I understand it came from Brussels, it's a transposition, but who invented it? Who are we recording? Certainly not to citizens these days when energy prices are rising. No way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u21	Now, with Mrs Fialová's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u22	I will also respond to my honourable colleague, Mr Bureš, through Madam President. Indeed, the exchange of individual meters takes place once every five years according to the instructions, which is not such a problem. The squad can plan it, I agree with you. However, the tech really needs to come in and download it. He just walked once a year. When you have a big housing estate, it takes him, like, two weeks a month to walk and download the data. And now he's gonna do it every month? Where are the costs of software that will automatically send a text or somehow inform individual tenants that they should look at their billing? This can be done elegantly, given once access, when you can put it on the website or your app, where each of the tenants can look at it. At the moment, when someone wanted to know the consumption or the new owner moved and there was no agreement between them, between the buyer and the new tenant, for example, the apartment that the bill was made at the end of the year, the new tenant paid for it, the technique itself, the arrival, and so on, but the agreements were there. I don't see how we're going to inform every month. We will send each tenant a text or anything else: Look at the billing, do you have such and such a heat consumption? I don't understand why we're doing this. If the person is interested and has a password, he can look there automatically. And where's the cost of the software? Who's gonna make it up, who's it gonna be? [[unintelligible]] I read the numbers here, 7 million of those gauges, 1.47 million users will send a text every month? That's just nonsense. Then why are we going beyond that, if we don't have to? That's the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Bureš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u24	So I don't know if my co-workers have any special equipment on heat meters, but we have either the vials that evaporate, we have to replace them at least once a year, so today you're still paying for the technique to come to you once a year and exchange the vials from which the fluid evaporates on all the heaters. Or you have digital measurements on those heaters that have remote access, and there's really just enough for someone to run through that house. After all, it could also be the chairman of the Essey who will immediately find out the consumption there. This does not change the fact that it seems to me that once a month to send it to those people is completely unnecessary, but that is simply the transposition of the directive from the European Union. And we're looking for a way to do that, this information for people as cheap or as cheap as possible, and, on the other hand, to do what is meant to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u25	Now, with Mrs Fialová's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u26	Thank you. Well, that's great. So the chairman of the SVJ will walk and circumnavigate a house with a meter that doesn't have a meter that needs to be calibrated is the property of a company and so on and so on. You mean... This is no longer meant to be serious about what else we're going to do! And are they supposed to buy them? Into their own - should they have them calibrated? [[A note from the diaper.]] Borrow. Well, that's great. Well, I don't know, everyone's got some manager, and when you say it's not a problem for the house to run around, there's another administration that has to go somewhere... So, considering, hypothetically, I'm gonna get a meter that's calibrated, I'm gonna have to send the data somewhere where someone's gonna valorize it, 'cause it's not just anyone who can do it. That's why we have laws so that we have up-to-date information and deal with the settlement of the apartment building as needed. And speaking of which, the tech needs to come. You were talking here, yes, about the vials, but it doesn't concern them at all, it's about the long-distance transmission. And the vials have to be replaced by 2027, that's included, and everyone's counting on it. And long-distance transmission nowadays, technology really makes it 30 to 40 percent, so you go and download it in front of the real estate. And that tech, if he walks, who's hired to manage a housing fund, he'll walk two weeks a month, when there's another job? Are other new people going to be adopted just because of this pointless measure or regulation that the European Union does not impose on us, and we are again papalist than the Pope?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u27	Mr Jiří Mašek is now signed up with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u28	Hello, Madam President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, I am not an expert on this subject, I am satisfied with what I have listened to here, and my question is simple. Is it possible to perform the transposition, but with a change and leave the measurement there once a year? Please explain why it's once a month, everyone sitting here, and now it's completely apolitical, you know that's complete nonsense. My question to the petitioner and the minister is, can we not accept this with this change to keep it once a year and leave this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u29	And since it is no longer a factual point, it is the Minister who has applied with priority rights, so please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u30	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Of course, I'll answer some of your questions. I would just like to say that it is necessary to realise what is the subject of this legal regulation that we are here to assess, because there is some obligation for you to keep regularly informed, the recipients of services about the heat consumption and consumption of the hot water that we are preparing together, and now the question is when. There is an Energy Management Act No. 406/2000 Coll., which deals with this in § 7 v para. 11 and 12. He says the gauges with the long-range readings need to be from 1. 1. 2027, so I think installing these gauges is a lot of time for that. However, the regulation, which is not the subject of today's negotiations, but which is already, is that if the gauges are to be exchanged, the meters with the remote reading should already be used, and what you should approve today, or let's hopefully release to another reading, is that if the meter with the remote reading is installed, then you have to provide the information that the provider basically has, and there really is the monthly deadline. If we're talking about whether or not you can just point out that you can download it in some way as often as you want, or whether it's necessary to send a letter or a different and vizo every month, whether by text or email, it's actually a question of interpretation of what it means to provide and what it means to make it available. In fact, it has already been announced here that the problem actually arises, or this recommendation that the monthly and visa be there, is based on the recommendation of the European Commission. Of course, the European Commission's recommendation is one of the so-called softlo, and they really cannot establish rights and obligations within the recommendation, which they might in some way rely on. However, it cannot in principle be said that the recommendation is legally irrelevant, and we should simply ignore it. In the event that this Commission recommendation is adopted to interpret a binding act of EU law, it can be assumed that it is the Commission that will approach it in this way, and the Commission has co-authored this regulation. And it is likely, therefore, that if it evaluates the accuracy of the adoption of the legislation, it will proceed exactly according to its recommendation. In order to prevent any problems, it is probably more appropriate to comply with the Commission's view, because whoever might sue the Czech Republic would, of course, be the European Commission. Of course, in the European Court of Justice, there could be another way. I have to stand up for the Ministry of Regional Development here because they were not entirely committed to doing this in this way, but given that, within the framework of the notified body of this energy directive, it is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and this was essentially a request from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to take this commission's recommendation very seriously into account and to proceed in accordance with it. So much for explaining it. In principle, the controversy is about the difference between the provision and the disclosure. If there is a text in that directive that it should be about providing information, it is interpreted as something that you really get into hands or you get a vizo where you have to pick it up. On the other hand, the mere disclosure that is not in the text would be sufficient for what Mrs Fialová actually said here. So it's legally a little controversial whether or not we're going beyond the directive. However, this fully respects the Commission's recommendation, and it will, of course, interpret it with its optics, which it has made in its recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u31	Thank you. Mr Kettner will wait a little longer because they are factual here. First Mrs Fialová and then Mrs Peštová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u32	I thank the Minister very much for explaining and answering some questions, and I just allow myself to make such a vague remark that it is good that we are throwing things at our non-party colleague, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but it still does not give me. I understand what you were about to say, but if we don't know how - I need to know the answer. So when you consulted with the various associations that obviously went to the Ministry of Regional Development and even sent their proposal for an adjustment, which I will allow you to quote here, what is so wrong with this legislation, which would fully satisfy the Commission itself? I would really like to explain this, because I see a slight difference in it, but very important for the operators themselves, where the very union that received this MMR proposes in § 8a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 or 2, which is precisely the sending of the information: it shall be deemed to have been completed if the service provider makes available to the service recipient information on its consumption in a way that allows remote access to and makes available to the service recipient - supplemented by the word "purely" - informed, and deleted "within the time limit referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2." However, the service recipient may request in writing from the service provider to send information on paper consumption for the period of up-to-date settlement. In such a case, the recipient of the services is obliged to pay the costs associated with it and the service provider may request an advance payment for such costs. What's the big difference? That's the whole point that we're thinking about here, and I need to explain the fundamental difference in these two words. [[Time's up!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u33	Please, Mrs. Peštová, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u34	I'm laughing. I'd like to respond to the Minister. Of course, I prepared the legislation before I went to the Chamber of Deputies. So now we're looking at whether or not that word is meant to be that word. We are talking about the fact that when the committee recommends the recommendation, there is really nothing mandatory. Each Member State shall stand up to this as it needs to be. You have an incredible number of laws hanging here that are long after the transposition period, which I think we all agree on, you have them, they're here in the Chamber of Deputies, and they're long overdue. There you are facing incredible fines, 2.5 million euros immediately for every day before you get it into our legal system, 10 to 15,000 euros. But we're talking about transpositions, where we're talking about it having to be. We're talking about talking about a word we're talking about whether or not it's there and that the Commission is recommending it. In essence, if you go the way you don't follow the recommendation, because it's just a recommendation, then the Commission will start some kind of infringement procedure with you, then some kind of reasoned opinion if she accepts that you didn't really translate how you were supposed to translate. Why, what are you afraid of? I just wouldn't do it. On the one hand, there are laws that threaten you with incredible fines and penalties, and on the other hand, are we going to be basing on a word that the Commission recommends? I just wouldn't do it, and I wouldn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u35	Now, with a point of fact, Minister, Mr Adamec is registered. Real first, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u36	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues. Well, I have a favor to ask all my colleagues to discuss it. We cut it in the '90s, which means the debate, if it were to remain in this regime, would be appropriate. But I really have a favor to ask. Excuse me, maybe this topic is somewhere else for me, and I would like to, because we're not going to reject it because it's a European directive, it's going to go into committees, if our colleagues who know what we're talking about can't get through this discussion, the professional debate that's going on here right now - and I'll admit it, I feel that way, I'm sorry that I'm acting like this - but I wanted to ask you to leave it to the appropriate expert committee, and only then, if you don't agree, I understand it, the debate, it's going to be a political assignment here, and then we're going to make a decision here. I'm begging you, let's get this over with with the expert committees. And actually, we know that there's a problem at this point in the '90s that we didn't agree to, so I would beg you - I'm not saying, I'm not criticizing it if you want to have a debate, it's your problem - but I think that when we say that we don't have time for laws, I think it's a good time to take advantage of this moment and focus on what's ahead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u37	It is now signed with priority rights by Minister Šalomoun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u38	Thank you. I would respond to Mrs Peštová, who said here that you - apparently thought of a government or a government coalition - were facing fines. But they threaten us, they threaten the Czech Republic! We're all soaked in that. And I would like to point out that this bill was prepared by the previous government. The fact that today, with some surprise, the Esseys are waking up here, that they will have to do something - in this bill, it's already been from the commentary procedure that took place in 2020, your Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, submitted it to the government in October 2021, and it should have been settled in principle by then. So I'm kind of scared with surprise right now that it's not basically like that. And I'd also lean towards what my previous speaker said. These are really very technical expert debates, let's leave it to the committees, please. Since the veto has actually fallen and § 90, there will now be a little more time to argue about what it means to "give" exactly what it means to "access" the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u39	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová is now registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u40	Thank you, I, with all due respect to Mr Adamc and the Minister, by your means: you ask that colleagues and colleagues not speak here or whether you discuss this on the committees to advance to other laws. I would like to, too, but please note that we have been able to discuss these laws here since the beginning of the parliamentary term every Wednesday afternoon. The fact that there's no discussion, and we've got the whole Wednesday off, you and we, so that's just your five-caliber deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u41	So we are now going back to the general debate, and that is what Mr Kettner has signed up for, and now indeed. By the time you get there, someone else can sign up with the facts, but they still haven't. So, please, you have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u42	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. A lot of things have been said here, so I'm gonna cut it short, because some things would happen again. This resolution, or this amendment, has a positive attitude towards citizens, because - I dare to quote this -'strengthening the rights of recipients of centrally prepared heat and hot water to accurate, reliable, clear and timely information on their consumption, so that they have sufficient frequent feedback on consumption. The Directive provides for a minimum frequency of billing information' and so on and so on. Those are the technical formulas I'm not gonna read. And it's here that we should come from the expert debate. In general, I think that the general debate here is perfectly okay, because it is the citizens who are watching. As far as professional meetings on the Committees are concerned, citizens do not participate, and they do not understand them, so I, on the contrary, welcome the debate. And I'm not gonna use technical terms here, but I'm gonna be very specific in a way that citizens understand. Firstly, I will also add to the fact that this is a noncommittal recommendation, or we really are not in danger of any sanctions. So I don't understand the stubbornness of accepting it with everything. I really don't understand. I would also respond here to some of my previous speakers and then go to specific numbers. I know what I'm talking about because I live in a cooperative apartment and I'm a member of the board of the housing team. And as it is said here, I've heard from the Minister's mouth that they're just waking up now. It's not true, the teams have been preparing for this for a long time, she can't wait until it's in its final form, he must already have some idea of how they're going to proceed. That means even the numbers I'm going to be telling you are the specific numbers of one single housing team. [[11.00 hours]] As far as gauges are concerned, long-range gauges are much more expensive, of course, but maybe our squad isn't, as they say, a hundred years behind monkeys. We already have the gauges where the technician comes in front of the house and subtracts it. And specific numbers: we have 8,000 flats and specific costs to prepare for this, our only housing cooperative, it will be a one-time item, technical equipment completely 5 million crowns. Of course, it's not like we're gonna pay $5 million and it's gonna be forever. The facilities are outdated, they have to be renovated, they have to be repaired and so on, but it's just a one-time sum of CZK 5 million for our housing team. Then, of course, we also dealt with possible deductions. It's nonsense for a technician to go around that many houses, so I don't know how many outside workers that would have to go around, so of course it's going to be over remote readings using the Internet. Every year, the squad spends 560,000 on those services, online options, long-distance transmissions of the data. As far as access to data is concerned, you must have a server and so on, it is CZK 1,115,000. This means that our housing cooperative will issue a year in addition to what we have issued so far, CZK 1,670 000. Please note that by law, the housing cooperative is not established to produce profits, which means, of course, that the providers of these services will probably find it difficult to play matka Tereza, that it will be at their expense. They will, of course, transfer it to the teams. And what does the squad have to do? The squad has to convert it to ordinary citizens, so they'll pay you back. And just to get an idea like that. 1,670 000 - for one entrance the average repair of one roof is 500,000. That means, for the money that we're going to give for some extra service - by the way, every literate citizen right now, I'm going to go to the meter, I'm going to press the button, I can see how many units I've drunk, I'm going to go to the hot water meter, I can see how many ccs I've turned on the alarm clock, I know how much a cube costs, I can calculate it - so for this above-standard service, only our housing squad every year could fix a normal three-course dollar, completely roof. And I think it's much more practical than some level-of-information transfer. And just one more tiny little plug - I didn't count in this sum, for example, that a lot of cooperative people don't have an e-mail address, they don't have smart cell phones, so they're gonna get it recommended, this information, every month. That's another cost, but ultimately, the people who live in those apartments will pay. For all the reasons that I have listed here, our club has joined the veto of this law, and I am definitely joining my colleague, Fialová, to propose a revision of this law, we agree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u43	Thank you, too. I now have no registered application in the general debate. This is still not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Before we move on to the final words, I'll read the apologies. Minister Lipavský apologizes from 10.15 to 17.00 for reasons of work, Minister Anna Hubáčková apologises from the whole day of the hearing, for reasons of work, and Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes for family reasons for the whole day of the hearing. Now I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words? It's from the translator's side, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to release this bill to second reading. I don't think it's entirely fair to hear from the opposition here, because if they ask in a rhetorical way who invented it in Brussels, then, of course, the European Commission and the Member States. Your government represented the Czech Republic there at the time, so maybe it could negotiate something a little more conciliatory. If there are any shortcomings, it will be time to remove them in the committees. That's why I'm asking you to do it this way in those committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u45	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur, with the final word, is also interested in speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u46	Hello. I'm really just going to briefly sum up what's going on here. So the veto was only mentioned in the first reading, so I am really looking forward to the debate on the Public Administration Committee and, of course, also on the subcommittee on housing policy, where, in fact, many of the questions that have already been raised during the discussion have also been raised. And I look forward to really looking at where the net transposition line is, when we cross it, where there is some consensus and, of course, for the ideal condition for housing policy in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-12-ps2021-031-02-001-009.u47	Thank you. Since there has been a proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, I will call on my colleague and colleagues from the front so that we can vote on the proposal. I'm picking up interest in the check-out, which is why I'm asking you to re-engage with your identification cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm picking up a complaint from Minister Rakušan that the voting device isn't working. [[That's probably a card.]] So I'm going to check you all out one more time and apply for re-entry. [[Minister Austrian: I'll get a spare card.]] We'll wait a little longer, the Minister will solve the problem with the replacement card. For the newcomers, I would remind you that the motion to reject this law did not fall, but the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion, which we will then vote on. Minister Rakušan votes with replacement card number 31, which already works. Therefore, I can begin voting. I'm opening the vote on the bill for re-evaluation, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 22 138 Members and Members are registered, for 64, against 71. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone like that. That's why we're going to vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? In vote number 23, 139 present, 137, are registered against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? I don't see anyone like that. However, we still have to deal with voting on President Michálek's proposal to shorten the deadline for discussing 50 days. Initiating vote... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] For 50 days, I'm sorry. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of cutting the deadline to 50 days? Who's against it? In the vote number 24 138 are registered, for 74, against 61. The motion was accepted. We cut the deadline to 50 days. In this way, if there are no proposals, there are no proposals, this press, we can end its discussion for the present moment and proceed to discuss the next proposal, which is the point
