ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended /German Press 96/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. I'll ask Minister Válek to take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to present to the House, before the first reading, a bill prepared by the previous government, with which I actually agree. It is a bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended. Very simplisticly - the proposal will allow covid-19 to be vaccinated against diseases even those who are currently unable to, i.e. make the circle of those who can be vaccinated wider, including dentists and pharmacists. If a large number of people need to be injected in the future in a short time, such a task will be easier to manage. The dentists and pharmacists will be able to inoculate the disease separately after completing the necessary training. The proposal sets out covid-19 vaccines to be covered by public health insurance. The adjustment should only work until the end of this year. On the last point, I would like to point out that this change will allow vaccination against covid-19 to be made available in the longer term and will allow it to be better defended against it. In accordance with Article 91 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is necessary to lay down rules on the application of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the general budget of the European Union and the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2012 to the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2012 to the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2012 and to the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2012 and to the general budget of the European Union for Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda was designated rapporteur for first reading and I therefore ask him to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u4	Have a good day. I am acting exceptionally with a different opinion from the Minister's. I am convinced that this proposal was submitted by the previous Minister Vojtěch Adam in a situation other than the time when we are shutting down the vaccination centres in the major hospital, it is no longer running because no one is going to the vaccinations. First of all. And secondly, this law is incomplete. There are fundamental things I cannot agree with or we cannot agree with. It states that a doctor may inoculate if he is qualified, that is to say, a strain and a certificate, and a doctor without a strain and without an attestation can only inoculate under professional supervision. On the other hand, it is said that a pharmacist, a master, and a dentist can inoculate without any supervision, because he has an education for it. Unfortunately, I fear that education in this case is an education on urgent medicine, acute care, and not the type of education. For example, dentists have an urgent education, yes, simply because they in their practice must have equipment for urgent medicine and be able to deal with sudden conditions that may arise after vaccination. Magistrates have no such education. I believe that the creation of ad hoc laws for some external reason is possible, certainly, if we help us. But we must not violate the fundamental principle of our profession, which means noli tangere, do not harm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. And I am now opening up a general debate to which President Alena Schillerová is claiming with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u6	Thank you for the floor. I think it's clear that now that I've come up with a proposal on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and the club of the SPD to put the veto on discussion in the so-called shortened event, no one will be surprised, because you see that there is a fundamental contradiction between the petitioner and the rapporteur, even if they are from the same government coalition. I suppose there will be some debate here, and I suppose my colleagues will come up with other proposals, so now I'm giving the name of two clubs of the ANO and the SPD veto for a brief hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u7	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to this debate, we have Mrs Karla Maříková, who will be prepared by Mr Julius Špičák. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, the amendment to the Act will enable health service providers and health institutions, dentists and pharmacists to be vaccinated against covid-19. The previous government has put covid-19 vaccinations at the level of sales in business centres. It was vaccinated in places where under normal circumstances it was not normal, without sufficiently assessing the benefits and risks to a particular patient. A number of patients do not know their medical condition enough, and let us say that even in some cases the medicines they take and without the medical documentation that their physician, in whose hands the vaccination should belong exclusively, cannot be sufficiently well evaluated for the benefit of such vaccination to a particular patient and the potential risk at that time. The amendment to the law from the workshop of the last minister Adam Vojtěch gives the opportunity to inoculate against covid-19 diseases also to pharmacists and dentists, but they no longer have the opportunity, for example, for the flu. So is influenza vaccination much more dangerous than vaccination against covid-19? At present, we are not in such an epidemiological situation that this amendment is necessary, and overall - we can perceive - vaccination against covid-19 is declining. Let me remind you that he's still inoculating with a vaccine based on the original Wuchan virus, and now we have a multiple mutation here. The effectiveness of the vaccine therefore decreases rapidly. There are several studies available. One of the first data on how omicron spread by highly vaccinated populations was provided by a group of British scientists - four months after people received the second dose of Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine - was its effectiveness in preventing symptomatic diseases by a variant of omicron of approximately 35 percent. It's a significant decrease compared to the effectiveness of the delta variant. A similar communication was made from a Danish study. The potential may certainly be to reduce the risk of serious action in risky people, but the World Health Organization itself has expressed that the strengthening dose cannot be administered forever. Covid-19 vaccines should produce broad, strong and long-lasting immune responses to reduce the need for additional strengthening doses. A vaccination strategy based on repeated booster doses of vaccine with its original formulation is unlikely to be appropriate or sustainable, warns experts from the World Health Organization's technical group. Inoculation means also carrying risks and solving certain problems. Patients may develop sudden reactions that can end with death. But it also means solving technical problems - what conditions will be for the area where it will be vaccinated and personnel utilization. Thus, small pharmacies may not be involved in the vaccination at all, because they simply will not be able to spare one of the employees precisely for vaccination. Thus, the argument of the Ministry of Health will not be fulfilled to get vaccines into small municipalities as well. I understand that this may be particularly interesting for large pharmacies, which call for this especially for economic reasons, but the benefit that the Ministry of Health argues will not really come from small municipalities. Rather, the lack of vaccination by practical doctors, as was a criticism, was that they did not receive enough vaccines, but not for capacitive reasons. Given the low interest in vaccination, the lack of assurance that patients' health and patient safety are not at risk, I make a proposal for rejection at first reading, because vaccination should only be part of a doctor's office who knows his patient and can assess his condition well enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr Milan Brázdil has now made a point of fact, and I will ask Mr Špičák to wait. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, many of you will think - for God's sake, vaccination, what it is, it's every diabetic who knows how to inject insulin, Fraxiparine gets people, someone gets 12 of them intramuscularly, it's not a problem! It is, coworkers and colleagues, it is. And trust me. As a doctor who has been working on the rescue service for 30 years, anaphylactic reaction, a toxic reaction based on the fact that we have over-exhausted immunity to react whole body humorally, cellularly, leads to the fact that the person almost ends up in arrest within a few minutes, in respiratory distress, and if someone can't do something - and only a doctor and a trained doctor can do that - and he has to be trained, and even there are rules, these doctors, even practical doctors, are training to be able to resuscitate until the arrival of the rescue service - it is a problem. I have a wife at home, a pharmacy master who has a clinical farcracker, not for four, but for five years, and when I was discussing it with her: "Can you do that? They're scared, they don't want to do it. Therefore, I fully agree with Professor Svoboda and what has been said here. It just belongs in the hands of the doctors, and let's leave it to them, they'll make it. And I think that the situation is over today and that it can be done in another way, and it's done. It's just a technical reminder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Did the Minister make a point of fact, or with priority rights? With priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. It's kind of déjà vu for me. I am still defending Minister Vojtěch, and the Members of his side are, in turn, bitching at the laws he has set up. But I don't think it's that black and white. I really think - and I am deadly serious right now - that the debate about whether we should not allow other doctors other than those who have been tested, such as those who are doctors after the tribe or after school or really - now I repeat what three health ministers said here last year - for example, pharmacists, pharmaceuticals, which is, say, possible in eight European countries, or dentists, which is possible in seven other European countries, I do not see that much of a problem. The rules are strong. [[16.50 hours]] I would very much like that law to go into first reading, to be discussed intensively in committees. I agree that the law isn't rushing, it's not rushing. I was very much considering not taking advantage of the government's change and not downloading it, but I think that part of the work on it was done. There are a number of top doctors in the Chamber of Deputies, my colleagues and colleagues, and there is strong potential in the Health Committee to complete this law, the Ministry will cooperate with it. Maybe it's not entirely political what I'm saying right now, but I think we have the power to put together a quality law after it's discussed by the Health Committee and eventually approved, and finally, the law will help that a larger number of doctors can inoculate, and possibly dentists and pharmacists. After all, we don't know what's going to happen in six months, we don't know when we're not going to need this wave here, and in this direction - little is going to happen - the evolution in the world. We can resist him, we can defend ourselves, but we still can't stop him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u13	Thank you, Minister. And now I will ask Mr Špičák to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really surprised by this action, because it is very contradictory and it is an action that does not lead to the objective. So first of all, I'd like to define the desired target. The desired target is a great shot, and as we know, the situation looks like basically vaccination as it goes, the increase is marginal. And on the one hand, we're essentially adding fully vaccinated individuals to our units, on the other hand, we're increasing the number of people who have had a disease or vaccination so far away that basically their immunity is insufficient. I would like to describe the current situation with three basic facts. First of all, there's some kind of mortality. The mortality rate is up to 50 individuals a day. I don't agree with my colleague Brázdil here that the problem is behind us, he's not behind us. The mortality is just huge. Imagine that around 330 people die every day, and now 50 more are dying. There were days when 200 more were dying! But it's still 50 extra, it's basically more than you could say for any other disease. But we somehow dulled to the situation, which is human nature. First of all, it's been a long time with us, and second of all, we feel subconsciously that we, socially active people, are protected by the fact that we are all inoculated. We should think about who's actually dying. Who are the 50 people who are dying here? This analysis is not sufficient for a number of reasons. I would like to say the second absolutely indisputable fact - although, of course, my colleague, Mrs Maříková, mentioned that omicron spreads here without any greater influence on vaccinations - out of these approximately 50 deaths a day, no one is vaccinated with three doses. I would like this to be explicit either from the Minister's mouth or from the director of the UHIS. I have not heard this explicit wording, and I consider it absolutely essential and important. That should have some motivational significance. And then there's this third factor that's oddly not mentioned, and that's the number-- we're watching the number of people infected, and basically there's a relief that the number is falling -- but we're not all watching the number of people vaccinated and the number of people tested. The number of tested in two months has dropped to some 20,25 percent. In other words, we have to multiply the number of positive tested today by three or four to get to the real value of really infected people. I can look around into the real situation of our health institute and I can see that there is literally an explosion positively tested but also quite seriously ill colleagues. None of them will get hospitalized, none of them will end up in intensive care, of course, that sounds good, but they are simply... having a rather significant problem, as Prime Minister Fiala has reported here, they are eliminated from the work process and I must say that the IKEM ambulance is basically paralyzed by illness on covid-19. So if I sum it all up, the situation is a little different than the situation here was in the fall because there was another option. There are two key factors: the omicron spreads rapidly, it spreads uncontrollably. He is spreading so uncontrollably that I believe that no social restrictive measure plays any role other than packing into plastic and absolute isolation. For example, we see this in China. So that's one parameter, that's the omicron that spreads uncontrolledly. And then there's the other one, the other one, the crucial one, that the company just dulled the problem, but the problem is here, and it's very serious. So we really need to give the maximum accent to get the vaccine. Of course, a kind of collective immunity is essentially a hypothetical term that de facto has no content, and of course that doesn't mean any 70, 80 percent. Basically, vaccination must be close to absolute values. And now I'm going back to the proposed novel. This proposed amendment simply does not promise higher vaccination. By just mechanically extending it to other providers, unless the method is finished - I am, firstly, fundamentally opposed to extending it to these proposed providers, because I completely agree with the previous speakers that the pharmacist and dentist are not equipped to administer such a dose, and I believe that, for reasons of legislative, they will not even want to carry out vaccinations. So I don't think the vaccination will increase by expanding the number of other providers. We still have to work with motivation, first of all, for those who are in close contact with the sick, which are practical doctors, so we still work with the organization of practical doctors, to work with professional companies, so that there is maximum involvement, maximum motivation, that is one thing. Furthermore, we need to analyse a group of people who still haven't been vaccinated. And once again, I have to say - it's not because they were absolute opponents. They just don't feel like they're under campaign pressure anymore. So once again, I have to say: Maximum motivation of existing providers, smooth organization and maximum motivation of those who have not yet been vaccinated. So I don't like this amendment the way it was submitted, and I suggest that it be revised. I propose this amendment to be recast by the petitioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Are you suggesting that the petition be returned to the applicant for completion? Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Petr Fifka has come forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u16	Thank you. Colleagues, it's nice to hear the debate when a proposal from the former Minister of Health's pen is being criticized. I am also in favour of taking this to the committees and discussing it there. This is a really broad issue, and Professor Špičák here has outlined that this is not just about expanding vaccination sites. As a pharmacist, I can tell you that I suppose my colleagues don't want them to vaccinate in their pharmacies. It may cost some chains to see a certain business opportunity in this, but we need to deal with another matter, and that's that covid will be here with us, he'll probably become a classic normal preseason vaccination like we used to with the flu, and we don't know if the vaccination system will go on with massive vaccination centers like it has been so far. So let's get back to it, let's talk about it, let's look for some practical solution that will be feasible not just for the next season, but for the next few years, as long as the covid here is bothering us like a seasonal virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Věra Adámková is now signed in and Mr Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to say a few words in order to state when a matter which is appropriate at the time is no longer appropriate, and this has happened to this bill. At the time it was being prepared, of course, we were in a different situation, so I completely agree with Minister Válek that we are currently discussing something that has already been discussed here. We have to say that we were really afraid of vaccination, there was no vaccination. You know that the campaigns were very active, but of course people were also afraid. And that's nothing wrong, a person has the right to have a negative attitude, so that there was a need to explain, there was a need to educate people. So now that we have the vaccinations we have, there are enough vaccines in our country, but unfortunately, they are still, let's say, the first-type vaccines. Of course, we would like to see a higher category of vaccine being applied for now. We don't have valid information yet that this is the case. We are in a different situation, or the exact state of this law is that although it was appropriate at the time, and now it is really inappropriate. Let's see why. The variations that are currently threatening us have been mentioned here, which, of course, may not be the final one, but you know that the whole, say, advanced Europe and advanced states are currently afraid of the combination of delta and omicron. So it's called deltacron, or experts say deltamicron. Why? Because people have already taken the omicron - so they'll infect us, I'll be home for a week and nothing will happen. Of course, the omicron can be difficult, we all know that, but unfortunately it led to the fact that part of the public - and I had two people in the ambulance today, responsible, I warn you, 70s, both after a heart attack, it's my profession and daily bread, not one of them was vaccinated, even though they were with me six months ago, I consistently warned them, warned them, so they came unscathed. This one lives in a cottage where he doesn't leave from, and he thinks he's safe now. That's a mistake, we can't guarantee that. We hope, of course, that no future wave would be enough to plunge us into, say, chaos like it was, but we cannot guarantee that there will be no serious variation. It is therefore important to address this issue. On the other hand, if it had happened - and now I don't want to scare anyone, but we've heard it on the Health Committee, the predictions made are just - that there would really be such a variant that it's as contagious as an omicron, and yet as dangerous as delta or more, no one knows that, so we would really need to make the system more robust. So I completely understand this bill, but I repeat again, at the moment, as it is written, it is not appropriate. The aim of the draft law for colleagues who were not there was to allow the vaccination against covid-19 to be carried out by all health service providers, in fact, with the result that it would be carried out or indicated by the health professionals authorised to do so. You know very well that they generally inoculate, as the Minister has already said, doctors with any specialized competence, or then other doctors in the regime according to how they have completed according to the standard rules laid down by Law No. 95/2004 Coll., which, of course, regulates for colleagues who do not deal with health care, obtaining and recognising professional competence, specialised competence for the profession of doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as we have heard here. That's why we're talking about him here. At present, we are not out of this disease, because coronaviruses have just been with us for a long time and these types will continue to be with us. And you know, now a few days old information that, for example, neighbouring Austria, which, of course, is of great interest to us both in terms of cross-border cooperation, but also in terms of holiday times, and when summer approaches, once again introduces tightening of sanitary antiepidemic measures. This can happen to us in other countries, not only Europe. Otherwise, for colleagues who have not been here, I must say that cross-border cooperation with Austria is really very good in various ways, so that is good. As for the fact that our number of positives is falling, it is not entirely true. First of all, testing is also falling because you know that the dominance of people who come positive is because they come because there is something wrong with them or because they are being tested because they have positive in the family. We are no longer conducting flat testing, which would certainly not be permanent, so we understand. And here it should have been allowed only until the end of 2022, please, both dentists and pharmacists, to allow them, under the professional supervision of a doctor with specialised competence or other authorized persons who, in my view, have not been well defined in this law, to be given vaccination to indicate it separately. To vaccination now in general - from being in omicron: any vaccination means that a doctor - because it is still being done by a doctor, so we will remain in this situation - first of all must know the current state of health of the person who comes to any vaccination. You know, in children, when he comes to a pediatrician and there he says that the baby had two days of heat, he automatically orders it in fourteen days, because we don't inoculate it into an acute infection, we could significantly make the person's health worse. While here, of course, and you know very well again - you are experienced people and I see here that really high school students don't sit among us - that the Czech person is very educated, can find information, can work with them, so sometimes he says what is convenient, and for that my patient, please nicely, right, just need to verify things. So it doesn't happen that just because he got somewhere, he was actually inoculated by non lege artis. At present, at a time of crisis that was, a pandemic that the modern world does not remember, we all understood this, there was some sort of excuse in it, to follow all the rules, but it will not happen again, so those colleagues would then be exposed to really very hard questions from the organs with which one usually does not like to meet differently than when one meets them in the hallway. I totally understand that. Another objective was to prevent disputes as to how the vaccine should be covered, whether from public health insurance and so on, or from the state budget. I believe that the Ministry is once again clear about this and will continue to work on it, because I say again that I hope that we will not get into the situation that was in 2020, because we already have some experience here and some processes are set up. So I totally agree, and you've also seen the design of our club in the '90s. It's nonsense, because we don't have this situation, we don't have an unknown nox to handle. And what does this amendment do to us? In Article 47 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 sentence 3 is inserted differently, I will not read it all, the words "unless otherwise specified." I understand the time it was given, but the present time is different and I would regret, I must say, Mr. Minister, Professor Válek, if he were to be covered for this "unless otherwise specified." I'm not a lawyer, there are a number of great lawyers here, as we can see, who can see by now how this word could be clarified and clarified and what legal opinion would be there in this case. So in my opinion, even this is given there unfortunately - or happily at the time, but at the moment quite vaguely, it is not possible to work with it. And I can't honestly imagine a private health service provider, which can also be a dentist or even a pharmacist in a small town, as it will have "unless otherwise specified" there. It's to make sure the poor guy doesn't sleep out of it. And then there's another thing. With those dentists, you know - and I speak only what is true - most of them are private. Many of them do not work permanently with a nurse. Why do I say nurse? There's a big difference between a dental instrumental and a nurse. The nurse is at least a graduate student, has been trained for cardioplumonic resuscitation, and at present, if she wants to work alone, she has to have another educational event, whether she is a bachelor or she has one more year's study. Why is it there? It's because, as my previous speaker said here, after all, inject yourself, please, at the moment, millions of people really know how to do it, you know how many diabetics we have, children are injecting themselves. We've got people who are allergic and wearing EpiPens in their pockets if it's hardest not to die somewhere on a light. It's all technical. [[17.10 hours]] But this is about the follow-up. This means that the vaccine usually has some foreign protein component in it. Of course, pharmaceuticals here could immediately beat us up with arguments where they are and be specific. I don't want to be specific, we talk in general. And unfortunately, the allergic reaction, as Dr. Brázdil spoke of her, which would go into anaphylactic shock, is a life-threatening situation. And the idea of someone driving someone somewhere is pointless, especially from some small town, and especially if there was someone there, and the law would allow him to comply with his fellow citizens, and so he would say, yes, I'll be there until tonight when you leave work, come by. That's a very big whip for the paramedics, and I think it's disproportionate because they couldn't resist it. So I must refer again to § 47aa, where it is clearly said that this can be carried out by health service providers, health institutions, are named by doctors, and it is even said that a dentist or pharmacist without professional supervision or professional supervision can do so in a person who has reached 18 years of age and if - and there is a whole series that restricts it. So now I see how these colleagues are going to have this written down, and they're always going to see if they can fit into these exceptions completely. So it goes on to say that they can be trained by someone else who has expertise. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, of course, or anything else, but I can already vividly imagine how many very business-efficient people will do these courses there, especially online. So I think that the quality of this certificate, although it is not exactly given which one it should be, would be very different - sometimes. But again, it's not exactly defined, so this really didn't work out. Then it is clearly pointed out here that anyone who decides to inoculate must take away a history, including a history of vaccinations, and determine the current state of health. There are several clinical pharmacists among us. Friends, tell me how you're gonna find out how you're gonna investigate this person. I believe it would be your nightmare. Farmaceut is a highly educated expert where, of course, a doctor cannot come and replace him because, in turn, he is not educated in his field, but to determine the medical condition belongs to the competence of the doctor. It's impossible to blame a pharmacist for reading a propeeeutics there, and then he would do something like that out of the wound of his options. That just didn't work out. And I think we would really give them the responsibility that I can already see how they would, of course - and rightly - blame us. I just can't. Anamnesia, it's okay, they're still very good at asking. Moreover, I have to say, with pharmaceuticals - of course, we have a big pharmacy and very often, I do not say that we still, but we often happen to agree with colleagues when the patient comes for the medicine, they are of course serious patients and there are a few who would not talk to him - because you wouldn't believe it, but the pharmacist is often told what they don't say in the office because they think they'd get a ban, while the pharmacist will talk. So I don't see a history problematic, but asking them to check on the patient's condition is just nonsens. So I believe that it is already for these reasons that the law is simply not at present. We don't have a condition if we can't handle it. On the contrary, the vaccination centres are already being abolished because there is no need for it to be in operation, so I believe that the situation needs to be addressed because if we happen to be back under a variant that would be going through the Republic really inappropriately and would have to be given, but at the moment I must say that the World Health Organisation is not entirely in line, and therefore not even the European Medicines Agency, with additional booster benefits being given across the board. So we'll see what their welfare brings to us there. So far, it's all in this one. So I would say: we know, for example, that the vaccination of dentists, pharmacists had, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany, but it is a little different, in our situation I think it is not appropriate, this would in no way lead to improvement, even at the moment, which is no longer necessary, and I would like to say that, on the one hand, I have reservations about the fact that we no longer need this law. It's not really mentioned here what could come, it's a serious health damage to these people, and we would be transferring responsibility to colleagues who would probably want to comply in good faith, but I think it would be a burden for them. And notabene we know for sure that if there was any health damage, none of the injured would say: He was going to comply with me, he is very kind, but he would have put him in court immediately, of course. And I don't know if this law would be enough - as I say, there are savvy lawyers, I can't legally explain it - just because he would say, "But they say I can do it." I'm not so sure, I think we'd put them through a lot of trouble. Again, it is very questionable to authorise the administration of vaccines to dentists who are often without a sister, or are really more likely to be in a housing that does not have much to do with the availability of a medical facility, often without an elevator, so it is very difficult, however, there would of course be education or the competence would be the easiest. I must also say that I believe that a motion for rejection has been made here, which we have heard. On the other hand, I believe that we have so many experts in the Ministry that they would certainly be able to offer us another option, reworked quickly, probably depending on what is needed, so I certainly believe that, first of all, this law is not appropriate, it could harm the health of our citizens and expose notabene to some health workers by further proceedings whose legal supervision I cannot supervise, but it seems disproportionate to me, or I think that this law should at least be recast, and this should be complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. Thank you, Madame, for your contribution to the debate. As you mentioned, we have a motion for both rejection and revision. Now, with priority rights, the Minister is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u20	I am glad, thank you, Mr President, that the debate is going on like this. I'd like to have that genesis again. Really, the law was being prepared in December. That's when Prime Minister Babiš promised dentists, dentists and pharmacists in IKEM, it was the kind of TV show you remember getting them into the law so they could vaccinate against the covideo. The law was exactly the same as it is now. All these objections that there are matters contrary to the law and I don't know what everything, they were even in December. At that time, the law passed through the then Legislative Council of the Government, under review, and to all those who had planned the law, if they had thought about it at least a little bit, it had to be clear that without going crazy, the previous government was unable to present it to the Chamber of Deputies, because the law thus went through the internal review procedure. When I came to the Ministry, it was absolutely impossible for the law to be passed by the previous government. That means he couldn't have gone to the House sooner than now. That's just the way it is. The fact that another wave may appear in the autumn is certainly true, and I think it's nonsense to make a last-minute hysterical law in September. So I think that if the law goes through the first reading, the Chamber of Deputies can debate the philosophical side of the matter, whether to get someone other than a doctor vaccinated. The debate was this sharp before, it was very heated, of course, those groups, let's just say, had a clear view of it. The pharmaceuticals, part of them, were interested in vaccination, part of them didn't. It was complicated with dentists again. It certainly wasn't lobbying the pharmaceutical chamber, nor was it lobbying the dental chamber. It was a perfectly legitimate discussion. Of course, the law can be rejected. I don't even have a problem with this, after all, it was planned by the previous government, the previous minister. I just thought it was polite to leave him in the process and not download him. I thought it was correct, I still think it's correct, and I think that if you behave, it's much better. I'm sure the law can go back to rework, it can be overworked, or it doesn't have to do anything about it, but I think this is a typical law that basically means that there has to be a broad consensus in the Chamber of Deputies on what's in it, because it's a debate on whether they should be vaccinated - it's the same as mail order selling drugs - if they should inoculate non-doctors, so if pharmaceuticals and dentists, they're also doctors, they should vaccinate and if they allow vaccinations even for those who have the tribe. Of course, we can reject the law and then have a long discussion and talk about finding consensus, but I think it would be wrong and inappropriate for a similar type of law to be enforced by a purely force, one or the coalition majority. [[17.20 hours]] It's a law that should be consensual. It's a law that should benefit patients. And it is not that there is a clearly prevailing solution in Europe or in the world, simply the solutions are different, and one of those solutions is that in many countries vaccinations are shifted even to non-medical doctors in the sense of magists and not only doctors and pharmacists, but even in some countries magists are vaccinated. So only so much for the genesis of the law, the origin, and what was possible and impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u21	Thank you, Minister. And now, Mr Farhan Kamal is duly applied for, Mr Janulík will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. I was prepared here and written my speech, which I saved again, because most of it has already been said. By the first performance, Mr. Docent Svoboda, by your means, buried her so easily because my speech was - I don't know if it was easy or in a good way to bury anything, but he just de facto erased my speech. So I'll try to look at it from a different perspective, so I'll be brief. Firstly, it was repeatedly said here that this was a proposal for an amendment from the workshop of former Minister Adam Vojtěch. I'm sure it's true, partly only because it originated during his time at the Ministry, but at the moment I would like to remind you that at the beginning, Minister, you said that you were identifying with it, which is very important. You're the minister, I'm sure you know the building very well, and in one word you can de facto throw this novel... or you can download it, you can cancel it, you can do anything, you can rework it, you can just do anything. And you have a better negotiating position - I think the Minister doesn't even have to negotiate in his ministry - you have a better negotiating position than, for example, the director of a multinational corporation, and I am 100% sure of that, because I have experienced both the work of the Ministry and the work of a foreign corporation. So that's it. So whoever set it up at this point isn't that important from my point of view, but I understand. I understand, I want to be polite, too, or I don't want it to get too hard on you at this point. On the other hand, you are the promoter of this novel. Secondly, when such an amendment was tabled, it was mentioned that we could, of course, meet another wave in, say, six months. I agree, he can meet us in the fall. More or less, we're unable to quite mathematically predict when this wave will pass. Then it would make sense to spread out I'll say the number of experts who can inoculate. But we'd like to put it in context, because at the moment... or another thing to put it in context - I understand, we need more vaccination, we have a migration wave, the Ukrainians are coming here... Ukrajinec, which, of course, we want to help. On the other hand, we need to realise that vaccination in Ukraine is - 34 percent of the second vaccine. Boosting dose, which you have repeatedly mentioned as very important, has 2 percent of people in Ukraine. These are completely different numbers and are among the lowest in the European Union. So, of course, if we want to do a lot of vaccinating for both our citizens, then we need to put it in some broader context so that it makes sense to support this amendment, and then I would understand it. What I don't understand is that from my point of view, maybe a vaccination campaign - I, as a citizen, don't see it at all. In my opinion, it doesn't exist in a way. Data from, like, four. 4. is some 2,086 vaccinated, unique doses, of which there is a need - I will not say exactly now, but maybe it is 160, but some 7.5 percent of the people who received the second dose. With the previous weeks, we're getting lower because the unique doses were over 3,000 and 260 circuses, which is less than - or 260, I don't remember exactly - but the number is de facto decreasing. So there's no campaign, and yet we want to work out. So we need to strengthen the campaign and this, and this, and this. And as for the briefness of these pharmaceuticals, it's nothing against them - I agree with my previous speakers here, whatever it is, they can meet with anaphylactic shock, with an allergic reaction, and I don't think they have the competence to deal with it at this very moment. And for me, I'm not proposing a rejection that I won't support or support at this point in time. But I will be glad if this amendment goes through the next reading, it will reach the committees and we will be able to discuss it and, if necessary, deal with it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Miloslav Janulík will now appear and prepare Jiří Mašek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Dear Government, Colleagues, Colleagues. I think many have actually been said several times. Of course, I also have to make a few comments on this. It is true that we have experienced times here, in those - basically as a result of this - there was a proposal for this amendment. The fact that it was kind of an emergency solution at the time when we had these huge increases and basically no one really knew what we could expect from it, so logically, what came out. The fact that we weren't all conformary about it - after all, we listened to our own from you, as we did from the opposition at the time. We're the ones who are talking about this completely minorly and at ease, and you're not experiencing any opposition agnosticism and screams about it or that. After all, look into the recent past at many of your statements and look at how they have been vaccinated. I would like to point that out, because really the promise that he's going to be vaccinated -- basically, I think, with a slight deviation, they pulled out the 100,000 vaccinated, just like they were promised, which was actually without such a novel -- it was done in the centers, it was done by practitioners, it was done by hospitalists, and it just worked. And of course, we've come across this - because we live in this world, I'd say almost a postmedia world, it's a mediaocracy, because the media determine what's right, what's wrong, what's wrong, what's not true - so we've developed a group of people here, there's a relatively significant percentage that just don't want to get vaccinated, and many of them have fallen into the impression that it's not really necessary. I would say that the current state of affairs is recording them for this because, as we have heard here, it is necessary to inoculate it and that it is necessary - I will not forgive the quote - to convince those people of strategic communication. Well, I'm asking, where's the strategic communication if it doesn't inoculate at all today? All the centers have closed down, and the false impression that the media is making that covid is gone - well, it's not, folks, it's already been said here. Because it's not being tested, we don't have any clues. But since I live on the border with Austria, go see Austria. The rakušák are back on those - because they have the numbers high - they're back on the covers, back on the measures. We're not doing anything. Plus, we've accepted, as has been said here, basically clouds of unvacated people. Now, of course, we'll see what it does. That's more of a question for super specialist experts, how it's going to mutate, it won't mutate, deltakrons and other krons, we'll see. But from what I can tell from my practice, I've never seen so much covideo in pregnant women in two years. That wasn't before. Today it is simply - and, of course, often within the framework of post-covid syndrome, Mr. Docent Svoboda will confirm it, end in fatality, intra-terrain deaths and so on. It wasn't. And of course, I'm asking, aren't you vaccinated? Is that what you intend to do? No, no, because why? But then when the state comes along and the people involved, one or the other, are in danger, suddenly they become difficult, they start choking, then they just go to the hospital: help, help! And we, as paramedics, say, no one listens to our good advice again, just like decades ago and everything else, so here we are where we were. And if I watch TV, I can already see the tick vaccination ad that it's over 55 or how much of the insurance, but I haven't seen the covid vaccination commercial at all, okay? We've got Novavax here - he should probably be here, I don't know if he's here, or if anyone's already inoculating with him, he's not gonna inoculate. I don't have the information. I can't see it anywhere. I can't even see the strategic communication. [[17.30 hours]] I consider this - as the poet says - the dead stars shine and the broken harps tone. It started at a certain time, I guess it doesn't really have that meaning anymore, or maybe at some point - I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but I think we have another wave, at least one, maybe more, I don't know, waiting - if it's summer, autumn. But we've already tried how to inoculate it, because then again, as soon as there's some more aggressive option and it starts to hit people, they'll immediately find that vaccination is good, and they'll want to get vaccinated again. I think it's a matter of time. Now, of course, it's over in the media, but now it's a different topic that covid isn't a topic anymore, so it doesn't scare people anymore, and the opponents won't resist so much anymore, but we've already checked it out - we know how the centers can be done, how quickly it can be inoculated, the practitioners got quite well involved and so on. So I think that, in some form, as the Minister said at peace, it would be a good idea to work it out somehow and put it in some form, because it would be a kind of insurance policy or we'd be set up for the next thing. Sure, why not, but let's just assume it's what it was. And as I'm saying, some of the statements that you've made in this place, as I stand here, have said, you should read and look at those entries that were needed a year or a year and a half or six months ago, and a little self-esteem would also be needed. We really don't want to go this way, because there's a lot of us here that we promised to sporeo ac polliceor, so now it's about getting a little bit ready. I'm really sorry there's no vaccination campaign at all, we really underestimated that. And because if I'm not standing here, I'm in the office, and I know that there really was this delusional feeling that it wasn't really necessary because it kind of disappeared. Well, folks, it didn't go away, no way, we're not just testing these people. I know about people around me who clearly have symptoms, they don't test, they don't report anywhere, it doesn't appear anywhere in the system, they're falling through the system, the UHIS just doesn't have it there and it won't, so, as colleagues said, let's multiply the numbers by 4. And here the cheering and pointing curves to CT1, it's basically an angry radio - they show how it's going down beautifully, and it gives people the impression that it's actually over and nothing's gonna happen. And now it gets warmer, it's summer and summer, as we know, the virus always slows down a little bit. But again, the infection - the colleagues said it right - is with us, will and will remain, I believe we will complete the seasonal vaccination, but it changes character. It really changes character, because the way studies were initially, that pregnant people in some way protect the pregnancy, the hormonal or their immunological situation - it doesn't protect them anymore. Indeed, there has never been so much covid in pregnant patients, and I say, the consequences of post-covid syndromes are often fatal. People feel that it's not really a problem anymore, and when they come across it or meet it face to face, of course, in human psychology, they always accuse them of it. You never say, "I'm an asshole, and I was supposed to go get a shot." Everyone says, "It's the doctors' fault, of course, they're exposed." Those are biological rules, and no one can change them. We can only intervene in some way, like this novel. I, too, would ask for this to be overworked in some way, I would also ask for it to be human. If you show any intern in the office the wording of the novel, he'll read it, he'll commit suicide because it's so horribly written... Every time the lawyers take it - and they're probably still the same guys at the ministry - it's always so infuriating that you read it five times and you don't really understand what the poet wanted to say. For that, I would also like to put these things in writing in the way the laws are written, but I would say in a more human and understandable way that we understand what the legislator wants to say, because I do not feel like reading it as a legislator, that I would say that, because I read it five times, and I am not entirely wise of it. I would also like that to be, I think that these things can be described in a much simpler and shorter way, so that we can come to what Professor Špičák said - we need to clarify what we want, what goal we want to achieve. Before, as the Minister said, sew something quickly with a hot needle in the fall, let's just chew it through the standard legislative process now, if the Ministry - because it has a professional apparatus - to get the experts involved, by which I mean legislative experts to simplify it, so that it is ready for those who come after us, because we will certainly not be here in a while to just know that this system can be activated immediately and go back to what I was talking about. That means, a year ago, we were able to vaccinate a lot of people, and we didn't have to have this novel, but we're gonna have it ready. And again, please, let's not make people feel like this is over. It's not over, covid's here. It's much worse than it looks. It's just a media image, but it's fake, it's crooked. We just have to convince people to at least give each other the third dose, because there's a clear course of action, the statistics are very clear, we all know that as doctors here. And we also know that there are states that are already giving a fourth dose to risk groups. Maybe I'm thinking a lot about having the fourth one. Let's keep this under wraps. We talked about campaigns. I'd like to see something like this happen this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u25	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jiří Mašek, who is now duly enrolled, is the last to be logged in to the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u26	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to try to contribute a little to the debate on this House press, from the point of view of how we are today with the epidemic. It was said that the numbers had improved significantly. Yes, it's really improved. To me, reference numbers are in hospitals. In hospitals it is currently 1,500 patients, of which about 160 to the ICU and about 60 with support or controlled ventilation. I'm sure the numbers are much better. What the previous speakers have said is that it is tested significantly less and remains a relatively high percentage of positive. This indicates that the virus is still spread in the population, and we can be glad that its clinical significance is now proving to be lower. I agree that we have to get ready in the fall, but I don't see the preparation in the fact that I'm gonna pick something like I'm gonna start vaccinating in pharmacies. There are several reasons. First of all, I'm going to talk to the minister - he reminded us that the previous Prime Minister Andrej Babiš actually came up with this idea. I frame it in a situation where the epidemic looked completely different, and at that time a group of doctors offered to help the dentists, possibly pharmacists, and at that time it seemed necessary, and that is why the law began to work on it. But the situation of December or November last year and the situation of April this year is diametrically different, so this really is not needed at the moment. In addition, during the course of vaccination, which began in January 2021 and developed throughout the year with electronic support for the registration of vaccinations, and with the emergence of large vaccination centres - which did not succeed at first, it was to transfer vaccinations to the practice doctors' offices, later practical pediatricians, but all of which succeeded during 2021 and we are in a completely different situation. If there really is a new mutation and a need for vaccination, for which we certainly need to prepare, then we can go back to the system that worked here, and we can do it in the way of both the practitioners, and by restoring the vaccination centres, their operation. We'll just go back to the solution that's worked out in past waves. So here I see, this is an important moment that we have a solution, and now we don't have to hack into it from my point of view. [[17.40 hours]] My colleagues have also been told here that we are now, respectively, the new five-calice government has not been involved in vaccinations at all. And I think it has to be heard here because the vaccination campaign really disappeared, and I remember the Minister's words when he thought he was going to resect his interest in vaccination in quotes by delivering Novavax, a vaccine that was long-awaited, a protein-type vaccine. And if I have good information, from the 700,000 vials that came in, maybe less than a tenth was applied, which is sad, because at least in the previous government, a number of people who wanted to get vaccinated were just about to get vaccinated with a classic protein-type vaccine in quotes, which Novavax would satisfy. However, virtually zero promotion of vaccination meant that the vaccination turned out the way it did. But it is on this vaccine that I would like to demonstrate the great danger of any decision to put vaccination in the hands of pharmacists, pharmacists. This is because it is now assumed that the new vaccines of the classic type will be on a protein basis, and there is just a certain mile of these vaccinations at risk of a truly anaphylactic reaction. And I, like Milan Brázdil, who performed here, was also a former paramedic, worked in an ambulance for 30 years, and the anaphylactic reaction is so rampant that if you don't start an immediate resuscitation effort there, you can't secure a venous entrance, replace fluids, don't inject proper drugs into a vein, and you can't get any more airways, so the person is immediately at risk of life, and the pharmacists aren't trained to be able to resuscitate well. For dentists it may be debatable, it can happen to them, there may occur a similar type of reaction during the application of anesthetics and the like, however in pharmacists it is really nonsenses. I understand that we can look into the United States, for example, when cars were driving through the vaccination center at the time of the most climactic epidemic, windows were pulled down and vaccinations were given to the arms of people who were in the car. But here, Minister, we really are not, the situation is quite different at the moment. [[Minister Černochová from the government bench off the microphone: That was during the war.]] And I'm glad - yes, right, my colleague, the secretary here says that this was happening during the war, but really this kind of medicine that could theoretically happen, but we're not really in a state of war right now. And I am very pleased that the rapporteur, Mr Docent Svoboda, is also critical of this, even though it may seem incompatible within the coalition, but it is simply true and it must be said that this is the case. Otherwise on our part certainly maximum support for preparations in autumn, maximum support for vaccination efforts. And, Minister, I would like to remind you here, and we have repeatedly agreed in the past that we should complete vaccination in quotations of old and vulnerable ones. And we're still failing. We had a pretty good move here, because I think you were also there when we adopted the health committee resolution last June and appealed to the government to intensify the vaccination of seniors and vulnerable people in order to catch up in some way. It did not go quite well in the world, however, in the end the government proposed adopting a decree on compulsory vaccination of selected groups, including seniors. Unfortunately, we didn't follow up on this, and I think that's our big debt, that it would be necessary to fix this, that we would have time for that, and that we would need to focus on this group even with the expected fall wave. So from my point of view, vaccinations certainly did, but vaccinations in standard medical devices in the hands of practitioners, or nurses, nurses under the supervision of doctors at the vaccination centers, because there it was made perfect, that there really were several doctors at the center who supervised the vaccination, took a medical history from the patients and eventually solved possible complications. So again, I want to say that these substances have been on a different principle in the past, and they didn't induce allergic, anaphylactic reactions on such a scale, but we can now expect standard vaccines to happen to a greater extent in quotes, and we should not afford to risk the lives of our patients in vaccinations outside of medical facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u27	Dear Member, thank you. I note a factual remark from Mr Vít Kaňkovský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u28	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, just a brief remark. Of course, we all understand the context of the time when this bill was made. It was at a time when delta was out there and the situation wasn't exactly simple. However, the reasons raised by the ANO colleagues at this time - and I agree with them, I am convinced from the start that this bill was prepared badly, and those health-related reasons are absolutely clear. I just don't understand that at that time you didn't convince your own minister at the time that the proposal was simply wrong, that it was written wrong at all times, because that the patient could get an anaphylactic shock in a pharmacy where he would receive a pharmacy vaccination, or in a dentist's office, although I think the dentist for an anaphylactic shock was somehow trained, so it was also true in November when the bill was prepared from the workshop of Mr. ex-minister Vojtěch. So maybe I'd like to ask a little lightening: you're proposing to return the proposal to work, so I'm going to ask if we're going to send it to Finland, to the Czech Embassy in Finland?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u29	I thank you, and at this point, I do not see any party registered for the debate. As no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. [[A Member of the Excellent shall be given the floor.]] I'm registering your application with priority rights. Before I give you my word, Mr President, I just want to ask if you will allow me to ask the final words? Minister, Mr rapporteur, do you want the final words? [[Minister Wark off the microphone: Definitely not.]] Definitely not. Please, in that case, Prime Minister Excellent, your priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like a break at the meeting of the members of the coalition's parliamentary clubs by 6:00 p.m., i.e. for 13 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u31	Thank you, I accept your request and interrupt negotiations by 18.00 when we will continue the negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the meeting of the club chairmen is up and I have been informed that the Minister is applying with priority rights. I am just saying that the moment you speak, you will reopen the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u33	Thank you, Mr President, so I am reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u34	I thank you, Minister, so we are back in the general debate and the rapporteur is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u35	Thank you. I have entered into an open debate with the fact that I see that this law has a number of functional problems in its text. There are a number of things that need to be fine-tuned, the question of qualifications and so on, that is all for discussion, and I suggest that we extend the time to discuss the first reading of this law by 20 days, and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u36	Thank you. That is, 20 days, to 80 days of hearing, an extension of the hearing period. Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is still applying to the general debate? At this point, I am not registering, and for this reason I am ending the general debate. Even at this point, I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur would like to take the final floor? It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I've logged out the application, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll call my coworkers and my coworkers from the lobby. We will vote on the proposals as they were read. First, then, we will vote on the motion for a refund, then on the motion for a rejection. We will therefore now vote on who is in favour of returning the proposal to the applicant for completion, as Mr Špičák has said. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? 166 Members and Members are registered, it is a vote with order number 107, in favour of proposal 76, against 79. This proposal was rejected. We will now vote on the motion for rejection tabled by Mrs Maříková. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion to dismiss? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 108, followed by 166 Members, for proposal 17, against 85. This proposal was rejected. So we will continue to discuss this further, and that is that we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies suggested ordering a motion to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee, and I ask if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I'm not registering any suggestions. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 109; 167 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 167. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The President The Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether you have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? Please, my colleague Maříková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u37	I propose a constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-005-014.u38	Constitutional-legal, okay. Is there a motion for another committee to discuss? I can't see. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the constitutionally-legal committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? [[Noise in the hall.]] At the same time, I'll ask for silence in the hall. It is a vote with order number 110, registered 161 Members and Members, for proposal 71, against 77. This proposal was rejected. In the general debate, we have yet to propose an extension of the deadline for discussion of 20 days, i.e. 80 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of extending the 20-day time limit? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 111; 167 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 165, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved, we have extended the time limit for discussion by 20 days, and I am ending the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
