ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended by the Constitutional Court ruling published under No. 4/20222 Sb. and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the disease epidemic COVID-19 /house print 127/2 - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 127/3. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Hraba among us. Hello, good evening. I ask that the plaintiffs for the Senate's resolution reject this bill - and I ask for peace first, I really ask for peace. With priority rights, there's still an application from the chairman of the Excellent Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, Government, Mr Senator, colleagues, allow me to give this procedural proposal in accordance with Section 59 (2) at the beginning of this Senate law, the amendment of the Code on Emergency Measures for the Covid-19 Epidemiology, House Press 127. 1 of the Rules of Procedure in the context of negotiations under Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure. This procedural proposal is that, in the debate, the Member may speak for a maximum of ten minutes. It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This does not apply to Members who have priority rights. I ask that this procedural proposal, which concerns the whole debate in this House press, be voted immediately as the Rules of Procedure impose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u3	Yes, the procedural proposal is always voted immediately after the vote. I'm registering the logout application, which is why I'm going to unsubscribe all of you and I'm going to ask you to log in again with your ID cards. I'll call in the MPs from the lobby. I note that there has been a procedural proposal from the President of the KDU-ČSL of Marek Výborný in order to limit the debate in accordance with Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure. One, for one ten minutes. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] As the number has settled, I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 85, 176 Members were enrolled, for 100, against 74, and the proposal was accepted, and in the debate, therefore, every Member who does not have the right of priority can speak for just ten minutes. I will return to the welcome of Senator Zdeněk the Hraba and at the same time I will ask once more for peace of mind for the plaintiff... You, Mr. Ambassador, are you applying for a vote? [[The President shall speak to the Member concerned outside the microphone.]] I would ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek to speak on behalf of the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, there have been many long discussions here about the pandemic law. So I will try briefly to summarize why it is necessary for us to adopt the amended pandemic law. While the situation in the Czech Republic is improving with the introduction of measures, there is still a pandemic throughout Europe, there are still problems with covid, and in autumn any other mutation, any other wave, may occur at any time in a crisis situation where emergency measures will need to be implemented, and this can only be implemented under the heading of two possible legislative standards in the Czech Republic, and this is a pandemic law or emergency state. Emergency status is a heavy weapon and it is not appropriate to use it. The right weapon in this situation, until the crisis law is amended, is the pandemic law. The Pandemic Law takes into account, in its amended form, the direct compensation of costs and takes into account all the complaints of the administrative court. It's an insurance policy, it's a law that, like any insurance policy, stays parked and can be used if necessary. [[20.50 hours]] The pandemic law itself does not affect anyone, it does not restrict anyone, the pandemic law itself does no harm to anybody, but extraordinary measures issued in accordance with the pandemic law - therefore it was necessary to amend it in order that the measures issued are really in accordance with the pandemic law - both allow a number of technical things that ensure comfort and service to citizens of the Czech Republic, ensure that they can have information practically immediately in electronic form about negative PCR tests, vaccinations carried out, if they have any problem with testing or certificates abroad, then the fact that these measures apply in accordance with the pandemic law, these extraordinary measures, allows citizens to turn to the telephone number marked in the Dot and practically online, we can modify the certificates, change the problems that they are in certificates, and all of this goes only and only if we have a valid pandemic law, and if this means that these technical measures apply. There are currently more than ten of these technical measures. That's another reason for having a pandemic law. [[Noise in the hall.]] The pandemic law in no way restricts citizens or restricts them...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u5	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment, and I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to move their meetings and talks - and it really concerns everyone - into the lobby and let the Minister speak in a dignified and calm atmosphere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u6	The pandemic law - I am about to end - has two main objectives: insurance for the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic, if any new mutation occurs at any time, if the situation deteriorates, as any prudent farmer has such safeguards hidden, so this pandemic law is such an insurance policy and it is a guarantee that the situation from the previous two years will not be repeated or from the previous time when the pandemic law was not. The second reason why we need to have a functional, valid, amended pandemic law is a whole series of technical measures that, as a result, enable a number of software to operate, enable them to send online information from vaccination centres, testing centres and offer comfort to citizens of the Czech Republic if they want to travel anywhere abroad and around the world. There is no way that this is anything that restricts the citizens of the Czech Republic in any way, because, in itself, the pandemic law does not have that role, nor can it. That is all and I thank you and please consider voting positively on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u7	I thank the Minister, and I will now ask Senator Zdeněk Hraba to take the floor, and I will ask my colleagues to really keep the peace in the hall. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u8	Madam President, honourable members and members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly introduce you to the 377th and 378th Senate resolution of the 13th term of office. The 377th resolution is austere. He says the Senate is rejecting the proposed bill, with the fact that he instructs my person and two other colleagues to present to this auditorium the reasons which led the Senate to do so, or most of the senators voting. In addition to extending the effectiveness of the law, the proposed legislation introduces a number of changes, indisputably aimed at precising and reducing the current wording of the law. Yet, after a critical assessment of some of the proposed amendments to the law, most senators and senators decided to reject the bill. The greatest doubts raised by the proposed amendment were, in particular, the way in which the self-insulation regulation was imposed with regard to the limitation of the Charter of Guaranteed Rights and Freedoms referred to in Section 2 (2) (a). 2 of the Law. Those measures effectively restrict the freedom of movement of the natural persons concerned until it is demonstrated that they are not infected with SARS-CoV-2 for a maximum period of 72 hours. This was one of the reasons that led the voting majority to this decision. Another reason behind this restriction was the lack of justification for the restriction of that right, the right of free movement. That was another one of the reasons. Another reason, another argument that was often raised and which certainly had its influence on the final decision, was that the law does not address the way in which the delivery of the self-insulation regulation, i.e. the SMS message, will be demonstrated, and the demonstration of this delivery is absolutely essential given the need to prove the offence under the pandemic law. Another issue that was discussed was the modification of the possibility of reviewing the measures taken. Often there were these criticisms. Among the criticisms and arguments that led the voting majority to the decision I am making here today, there were also doubts as to whether the law could have been discussed in the accelerated procedure, whether the legal preconditions for the accelerated procedure had been sufficiently justified. Finally, the last reason was doubts about the proportionality of the fines imposed, when for comparable measures such as isolation due to positive antigen test and isolation due to staying in a risky country, fines can be imposed at an incomparable amount of CZK 10,000 of Czech to CZK 200,000. Those were the fundamental arguments that were raised there. I'm sure you've heard and noticed other arguments from the media, but I thought these were the most important ones to be heard. So much for resolution 377. The Senate, on a proposal from Senator Václav Láska, adopted Resolution 378 by which the Senate notes that it does not consider the correct and understandable legislative procedure for the public, which is urgent, without proper professional and legal discussion, by the Government, the law proposed by the Government, which interferes with the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic. Secondly, the Senate notes that after two years since the outbreak of the pandemic, it no longer considers it conceptual to address the crisis situation of the covid-19 pandemic by a one-off law, which is intended only to address this particular crisis situation, the quality of which, as well as the quality of the legislative process in its creation, is reasonable to doubt and whose effectiveness, following the development of the situation, must be extended repeatedly. Thirdly, 378. the resolution then reads: "The Senate calls on the Government to open a professional debate and to take the necessary amendment of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, and Act No. 240/2000, a crisis law that would allow for the conceptual and institutional solution of a wider circle of crisis situations and provide for a clearly predictable regulation of possible interventions in the rights and obligations and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic, which have been held during the review of their constitutionality." So much for the two resolutions of the Senate and the reasons for their adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u9	Thank you, Senator. He could now speak to the Senate resolution by the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Health Committee, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, but I don't see him here, or maybe just... I don't really see him, so this option isn't at the moment. I am therefore opening up a debate on this point, which, as we have already voted, is limited by ten minutes, except for those who have priority rights, and one contribution for each Member. I note that I have already signed up Tomio Okamura with priority rights, then Mrs Schillerová with priority rights, President of Radim Fiala with priority rights, Vice-President of the House of Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, also with priority rights, in writing subsequently about fifteen - yes, fifteen Members starting with Patrik Nacher, who has submitted a written application to the debate. Therefore, I am now giving the floor with priority rights to President Okamur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here again the pandemic law, which the government wants to restrict from 1 March the rights and freedoms of citizens. The government of Petr Fiala continues to want to tighten the screws by enforcing this law, although quarantine is being abolished, the numbers of the infected have fallen in the long term and hospitals are not overloaded with the patients. The content of this government bill is an unprecedented attack on the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic, which is why SPD members will not support this government pandemic law, or otherwise named emergency state. And we fundamentally disagree with this law. That is why we are also doing all possible steps here in accordance with the House's Rules of Procedure Act to prevent the adoption of this necessary law. It is obvious that the arguments that we put forward here 14 days ago, and we are talking about them here and this House meeting, that the SPD arguments are true, because even the Senate, who voted on this law a few days ago, so even though the Senate has a government coalition majority, the Senate rejected this government law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u11	I will interrupt you for a moment, Mr President, and I will ask my colleagues, especially from the right side of the Chamber, to move their conversations into the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u12	This law, the pandemic law, or otherwise named emergency state that the government is presenting, has also caused a division in the government coalition. So not only are the pirát arguing with the STAN movement normal after a few weeks of this government, but not only are there other discrepancies between the various members of the government coalition and blame themselves, they attack instead of working for the citizens, but even it turns out that the government's five-calice Petr Fiala doesn't have a majority in the Senate. That means, even government senators do not support this House's five-police government. It is also an unprecedented situation and it can be seen that the support of the five-calice is very weak, and this is not good news for citizens of the Czech Republic, when the government coalition is unable to enforce its laws. This is, of course, also because, as a priority, Petr Fiala's government does not address the expensiveness of energy and food, and instead, it submits a set of laws to the House as a priority, which are basically not helping a common citizen in the Czech Republic at all. Outside the pandemic law, the government here also puts forward as a priority the introduction of correspondence elections in the Czech Republic, because the government coalition is afraid of its failure in the next elections, whether presidential or Houses, so the government coalition needs to change the electoral system in order to allow for various frauds, manipulations and various irregularities, thus ensuring essentially government for ever. Of course, the next priority that the government is promoting to my unkind surprise is also the media law that is now being prepared by the Ministry of Culture under Minister Baxa of ODS, where the aim is to control politically Czech television and Czech radio. It's such a coup, an undemocratic coup, you might say, but now on the subject of controlling public media, the debate will certainly be even longer. I say this for the reason that I am setting this mirror, that the Polish Government, the Hungarian Government, the Slovák are cheapening energy, trying to help citizens because citizens are desperate for everything to get more expensive, but Petr Fiala's government is doing absolutely nothing in this regard, resigning from a solution to expensiveness and, instead, promoting priorities here, essentially just for itself, being promoted by government politicians. I would, of course, add to that the national bird competition that this government has focused on, and I think it's just drawing up a very bad attitude for this government. So, of course, as part of the so-called obstructions - one of the objectives was to draw attention to the incompetence of this government, to their strange priorities, and because the government is enforcing a totalitarian pandemic law here, quite incomprehensiblely, as I said, in a situation where there is essentially no covid epidemic and there is nothing to prevent the government from taking emergency action whenever the government takes action, from declaring an emergency. It's the government's jurisdiction, they can do it. I don't see any reason for this to be an emergency. Minister Válek says that if there is no pandemic law, or otherwise named emergency, he wants to declare an emergency as of March 1st. I think the government has gone completely crazy because that's a completely incomprehensible government proposal, and you're just pushing it here. We wanted to draw attention, and we want to draw attention to the fact that because you are pushing the pandemic law and correspondence choices, so the laws are postponed here, and you have already postponed them by voting because you have just rejected the vote, the coalition rejected the SPD's agenda, for example, to increase support, the contribution to the care of disabled citizens, the government rejected a few moments ago in order to place the pandemic law on the agenda for the introduction of a minimum dignified pension to help low-income pensioners, the government here a moment ago rejected the SPD's proposal to end the abuse of ill-adaptable benefits, the government here rejected the laws of the type of termination of abuse by unadaptables. We also proposed the nationalisation of executors and so on, we proposed the referendum law here and a lot of other laws. So here we see exactly what the priority of this government is. We have repeatedly suggested that we also address - and we have also proposed this here today - you have also rejected the votes of your government coalition - to address and help citizens with the expensive. This should also be pointed out that the government coalition, five-calice, rejected by its majority the solution of the Czech Republic's price increase. This means that we have presented concrete proposals here exactly as Hungary, Poland and Slovakia are already implementing, but the government refuses to help people affected by the price increase, which are all citizens of the Czech Republic, and instead you are pushing the pandemic law hard here. [[21.10 hours]] Yes, it's really expensive fun that the government is doing here, because the House's negotiations cost a lot of money, and you're using up very high public money to make it a pandemic law and a correspondence choice. Yes, that was already on the agenda, and we prevented it from happening a few weeks ago, so it was postponed instead of the House's work and expenses that it costs the House to devote to the rapid adoption of laws that really help people, so in an incredible way you're wasting public money. There's evidence of this pandemic law. You will not be able to explain here that the government should have other priorities than to propose further restrictions on constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. It's really a government - I'd say it can be evaluated by the expression - "free expensive" because you've basically blocked any negotiations on good laws here. Now I've even heard some screams from the representatives of the government coalition that because of the pandemic law, that because the SPD rejects the pandemic law, it is said that the adoption of the state budget is at risk. Well, you're not really going to fall for this lie, because we all know that you should have submitted the state budget in December, that you should have tabled amendments to the draft state budget submitted by the previous government in December, but because you weren't ready, even though you said you were ready, and you promised it to the voters before the elections, we didn't have the budget on the agenda until February. I've never seen that before. And because of you, the Czech Republic has been in the financial commission for two months and investment has been slowed down. At the same time, investment is essential for us to invest from the crisis, investment in infrastructure and so on. So the damage that's caused by the bad priorities on the part of the government's five-wheeler, the damage is really rising, it's financial damage. And unfortunately, it is trivial that everything, all of these steps of yours must be paid by the citizens of the Czech Republic from their taxes. We have repeatedly proposed here constructively that you withdraw the negotiation of the pandemic law in order to discuss here - and a moment ago it was voted on and voted on 14 days ago - that we should discuss here proposals to help both disabled people and elderly people and students, working families with children, to support children, to support businessmen and small entrepreneurs. All these laws here are inserted by the SPD. And you just -- the government coalition has given priority to not wanting these laws to help citizens, and you have outvoted us hard because you have a majority, and we are discussing here for a long and very expensive time in terms of how much the House costs and how much it costs to negotiate the House of Money, so here we are discussing the pandemic law. So that's really, really incredible, these priorities of yours. You are also incredibly expensive in the Czech Republic. Here I would remind you that you still put 70 million crowns in your budget, or tens of millions extra for 70 additional employees of the apparatus, for your three newly created ministers, who of course are not needed, those ministers, because they were not in the previous government, and the government was also functional, regardless of the content of what they were promoting. And that means, it's a really free government. And I would really like to call you on us, after our experience with the pandemic law, because I suspect that you will translate a very soon so-called correspondence choice that brings nothing - literally nothing, literally nothing, so that you can stop and actually start working for citizens. And the arguments that cost the House a day - well, it costs a lot of money, but because of you, because of your government majority, public funds are being spent on these very strange proposals of yours, and you need to be told. Because you have a government majority, you have, you determine the agenda of the meetings, you determine what the priorities will be on the agenda of the meetings. That's what we saw now, in the vote a few minutes ago. Yes, you have voted that the most important priority for you is the pandemic law, not the laws that help people, and that is what the House is paying for. So it's really scary that you don't offer anything to people, but for these personal political interests of yours, there's always time, there's plenty of time. Here is also the problem, and here I would briefly stop by, that you proposed the so-called pandemic law in a legislative emergency. It will be one point, it is one of those parameters or those moments at which the SPD movement is preparing a constitutional complaint, because the House's Rules of Procedure law is very clear, and I said it here 14 days ago - it is one sentence that, in a state of legislative emergency, a government bill can only be discussed if, I quote, "the exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the state is threatened with significant economic damage" end of the quote from the law, which, of course, this criterion does not meet. That's what I think is clear to everyone at first listening, and it can be a legal layman. So, of course, it's also a contradiction, and it's a confirmation of a government coalition, one can tell from a lie today, because when I see it in the media and I have been involved in various discussions, there's no other way to call it a lie. They say it's okay if it's enforced when you're promoting it in a legislative emergency. So I think that the sentence that I read that every citizen understands it and that, of course, here in the Czech Republic at the moment it relaxes is not flooded with hospitals, quarantine is canceled, testing in schools is cancelled and so on, because there is no reason for any testing anymore, so there is neither an extraordinary circumstance nor a threat to the security of the state, nor a significant economic damage to the state. Well, and the fact that fundamental rights are fundamentally threatened is true, but in a different meaning than that of the law. Yes, by law, you threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. But, of course, it's meant differently in that law, so you explained it your way. That's like when you said you'd bring change, you said before the election, and you forgot to add that change to worse. That's exactly the same logic. So that's really an extremely important point. Of course, we are preparing a constitutional complaint, and if the law is passed, which we will know after the President's signature, the next moment is that you restrict the right of business, for example, and that is in the Constitution. This is directly written explicitly in the Basic Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is in the Constitution, and the right to education is there and the right to protection when I simplify it, private and social life. So basically, even these moments -- that's why it's in the Constitution so that there's no government majority right now in parliament that can just bend the constitution and limit the democratic rights of citizens and put totalitarianism on the table. That is why 120 Members are needed to change the constitution, not 101. That is why two thirds of the senators are also needed, not just half. Just so that anyone can't have totalitarian manners and can't - even if I understand your feelings, I don't have them - but you are intoxicated by power and you want to control the lives of citizens at all costs, so you want to bend constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. You basically copied provisions into the pandemic law, which may only be in an emergency state, but there's a constitutional issue, a law on security, it's not a common law, and now you're pushing it hard in a situation where there's no need for such a law. Even that you are proposing this in a legislative emergency, I would also say it out of untruth, because if - you are talking about autumn, but it is in a legislative emergency that can be accepted, just if an epidemic were coming, you could have suggested such a thing if it were up to date in August, September, but you absolutely incomprehensiblely want to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens continuously, even though there is no reason to do so. And even here Minister Válek threatens to declare an emergency as of 1 March, which is an unprecedented attack on freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic. I do not understand how the Minister can afford it at all, such totalitarian reasoning that he wants to in principle, by cutting one pen or by one signature, directively insinuating how citizens should live in the Czech Republic, even though there are no conditions to do so. [[21.20 hours]] I think that this moment, which I said, is extremely dangerous when politicians rule in the Czech Republic. Of course they are - I say it very well that they are totalitarian manners, because otherwise, of course, they control similar manners on the basis of empowering decrees of the lives of citizens, which we have experienced in history, for example. I didn't experience it, but we all know it from history, so it was in Nazi Germany, for example. And that's really bad, and I have a very bad feeling about it because I hate these manners. I like freedom and democracy, not restricting citizens' freedoms. In previous discussions in the House, I have read and also commented on the extensive analysis of renowned lawyers who point to gross specific errors and nonsense in the bill, but the government of Petr Fiala and the government's five-callice are deaf and blind and pretend not to hear anything. On the contrary, you all lied about reading novels here. No, I've been reading a clear and pregnant legal analysis that you haven't responded to, which no one has thrown out of the government. You just started lying like a goddamn liar, and that's evidence of something. I would expect that, in democratic societies and in people who hold democracy - of course, we are in the SPD - so I would expect a broader debate to develop here, and that the Minister of Health here, Válek and Prime Minister Fiala, will be willing to justify why they suddenly want to have the power in March to effectively limit citizens' rights and freedoms, and why it is such a priority for them instead of solving price increases. Again, I say, the Czech Republic has found itself completely on the brink because of this essentially incompetent government, while all the V4 countries have literally all, the Visegrad Four, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia, taken measures to protect citizens from expensiveness. The Czech Republic was the only one who did nothing. We don't have any more horizontal measures to help people with price increases, and citizens know that, because this is also happening in the big mainstream media, as these three states are really dealing with it, they are putting down energy prices, which I have repeatedly called on here, or in Hungary, they have put up mortgages, mortgage rates, so that housing doesn't get so expensive. In Poland, but also in Hungary, the prices of basic food have been reduced or reduced to VAT, from 5% to zero in Poland. They have put fuel prices on the table, simply the basic needs that citizens need to help citizens. It is indeed an unprecedented failure that the government of Petr Fiala does not want to help citizens at all, it does not want to relieve them of the bills, and citizens see it, while all other governments within the Visegrad Four are already working specifically for citizens. Today, of course, there has been another miserable situation, it is a moment ago that you rejected the SPD's vote to address the increase in energy, food and everything else in the Czech Republic, so that citizens can understand when, what, and how the government will help them. It is indeed - it has become the custom of this government of Petr Fiala that you yourself are not proposing any alternative proposal and reject only those SPD proposals that we have prepared exactly in accordance with what we said before the elections that we were ready and competent to rule, but you promised it too, but the fact that we fled. And that's a really big problem. So even though I was making a clear and clever argument here by legal analysis, it was in my previous performance 14 days ago, when I spent three hours here talking to the point all the time, so no one in the government got up here to disprove the arguments and explain to the public why, at all costs, you are essentially promoting an otherwise named emergency situation for the Czech Republic, but also that directly named emergency situation, as Minister Válek said, since 1 March. So this is the current situation with which we fundamentally disagree, and that is why we have also taken advantage of the democratic possibilities that allow us to sound the alarm, so as to sound the alarm - for this is the so-called obstruction, which is also sanctified by the Constitutional Court. It is a democratic instrument that has also been used by the current government parties in the previous parliamentary term and before. Remember Mr Kalousek, remember Petr Fiala, the Prime Minister today, and others about EET and so on. But today the situation has shifted very strangely because the coalition is trying not to discuss, the government of Petr Fiala, but is trying to silence political opponents who are in opposition in an undemocratic and totalitarian way. The proof of this is, of course, a few minutes ago, when you once again introduced the government of Andrei Babiš in such a serious law - and I stress again that even a year ago, when this pandemic law, however, in a much more glazed form, was introducing the government of Andrej Babiš, the parliamentary club was the only one who voted against restricting the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens. [[SPD]] And time has given us the truth. Time has given us the truth that horizontal measures are not the solution, that there is a need to target the protection of endangered groups, if there is a pandemic, like there is no one here today, and that lockdown is not the solution. But the government wants to repeat these mistakes over and over again and push through this so-called pandemic law. You guys voted a while ago, and I was calling for you not to do this, but that's like throwing games on a wall so that you don't limit the speaking time of Members to such a serious standard so that they can comment on it. You've limited her to a few minutes for those who don't have priority rights. In fact, I have announced here that, among other things, the SPD MEPs have the largest share of doctors from all the MPs and our Members, who, for example, are doctors, but also others, wanted to discuss in more detail the reasons and arguments for hearing it also to the public. And you silenced our MPs so that we couldn't oppose these totalitarian proposals of yours. The whole Republic is calling to you that it doesn't want the law. The five-police government wants to restrict the rights of citizens by giving power to the Minister of Health, who will restrict the rights and freedoms with a decree. The previous government of Andrej Babiš tried to do so, and the courts threw decrees at her head and disturbed them. The new five-calice government of Petr Fiala - it is the five-calice ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates - played on voters theater that they are different. I wonder, what if you plan to continue with the unconstitutional restrictions on citizens' freedoms? And really, don't give me that other false argument that the pandemic law has judged the Constitutional Court and that it's okay. I don't know if you want to make a fool of people. After all, this law is not yet passed, yours, your government amendment to the law, so how could the Constitutional Court judge it? Do you want to make complete fools of people already? After all, the Constitutional Court will judge it when it is adopted, your amendment, so your pandemic law, your version, no Constitutional Court could judge, as we know, nor could it be judged. That's why I said right at the beginning that there are just these different moments where you can see the obvious unconstitutionality. [[21.30 hours]] As I have also said, the boundaries have defined the courts in recent months. These are natural human rights to freedom, personal and economic. You may limit this freedom only in the really fundamental and public interest if one person's freedom threatens others. But how does another person, perhaps healthy but not vaccinated, face a beer at the bar? That's what I'm asking you. Nothing. How does a healthy person who doesn't have a drape at the supermarket threaten others? How can anyone be threatened by healthy children who have been quarantined for one positive test in your class and denied them the constitutional right to education? The fact that you have restricted these freedoms and rights for no reason has already been stated in many cases by the courts that this is an unconstitutional act and, apparently, a criminal offence. Instead of learning and stopping attempts to limit civil and human freedoms, you are actually wondering how to legalize restrictions on freedom. Let me remind you of two terms, this is the term legal and the term legitimate, i.e. legal and legitimate. Just because something is legal, that is, legal, does not mean that it is legitimate and legitimate. You're trying to legalize something that's completely illegitimate in principle. Whether or not you approve the law, it will be completely unconstitutional and illegitimate. I already gave the reasons at the beginning of my performance. Every person has a civil and human right not to respect such a law. To be clear, if citizens do not respect your regulations, they will not commit this illegal act, but you who try to rape their rights contrary to the constitution and constitution and human rights given by the principles. We know you're aware of that, so in the debates and here in the House, you're running and hiding. You dehonest opponents, insult them, try to degrade them without talking about the substance of the matter. In this way, the whole debate here on the House's pandemic law and agenda could be described, because if someone disagrees - and the SPD does not agree to restrict further constitutional rights and freedoms from March now, so that you have the opportunity to restrict further constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens at all, so that any government at all has the possibility of restricting the rights of citizens by the constitution - so that you opponents are merely demoting, insulting, trying to degrade them and not talking about the substance of the matter at all. In fact, there wasn't a single gig from a government coalition trying to respond here to the pregnant legal analyses I presented here. Of course, citizens are rebelling, citizens are dissatisfied, and surely you too are overwhelmed by emails from disgruntled citizens of the Czech Republic, even from your constituents who do not want the pandemic law. This is certainly true, because as we know - and this is widely known information - that the Senate rejected this government pandemic law of yours, even though government MPs have a majority in the Senate. So the Senate has confirmed what the SPD has been saying since the beginning, and he has also given us the truth, even though they are representatives of your government coalition. Still, you're pushing it hard. I've asked you here repeatedly to withdraw the law, to stop with totalitarian manners, when you want to control the lives of people, their freedoms and rights, but you just don't want to do it, and evaluate the time that actually leads you to it. I'd say it's a power rush, because you haven't been in government for eight years - we've been in opposition too - and we've just gotten drunk that you've got 108, that you've got a majority here, and that you want to control everything and erase all the opposition and our opinions here. I'm also recording it at the meetings we had here, the grémia. You'd like the SPD to hand over the voting cards so that we don't come here at all, and that you can really, like somewhere in North Korea, speak out by waving a wand without any counterintuition, without any opponent, just your program. But that's a really tough totalitarian thing to do. And these are your opinions that reflect the pandemic law as well. Well, we here in the House, the 20 members of the SPD, despite the overwhelming majority against us, are going to bite it, because we are going to fight for our program anyway, we are not going to be pushed away and we are going to be politically fighting for the SPD program, for which more than half a million voters voted for us. Our voters do not want a pandemic law, and we have it confirmed by the elections, because, as I said before the elections, we were the only parliamentary club that voted against, and again I say, time has given us the truth. So that's a really big problem, that attitude of yours. But the problem is that by law you want to limit really 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic, you want to have the right to limit them. You want the sword of Damoklův over them. There won't be any argument here that if nothing happens, you won't have to limit anything. But even the fact that there is a possibility is unconstitutional when it is a constitution guaranteed by rights and freedoms. This has clear lines in democratic society so that there is no political will, so that political dictatorship against people does not occur, I do not even want to say violent dictatorship, which has slipped into the finals in some regimes. These are really dangerous tendencies. The SPD will simply be the guardian of democracy here and we will defend that freedom and democracy for citizens of the Czech Republic as well as against your vast majority, which is here against us. We will fight to the last breath to maintain freedom and democracy in the Czech Republic. I understand that in your desperate situation, citizens are also rebelling against your pandemic law. From your point of view, there's no other way. There was a debate in the Senate where the government was unable to defend the pandemic against its own senators, so your own government senators rejected this law. Senator of the Government's TOP 09 Zdeněk Hraba commented in words, and I quote: "If the law ends on February 28, nothing will happen at worst. Either no more measures will be needed, or the necessary things will be done according to other laws." End of quote. Your proposal is simply useless. All normal people outside this House agree on this, regardless of where they're from, so even senators, or politicians, of the government coalition, members of Parliament, of the government coalition, are right about what I said here under the SPD before the law went to the Senate. Still, it doesn't move with the government at all. The senator for the government movement STAN Michael Canov even calls for the resignation of Minister Válek, who would quote: "He should not try to change the law so as to ensure the possibility of imposing restrictions that the court has called illegal. " End of quote. So, of course, the opposition to these totalitarian manners of yours is already quite broad. [[21.40 hours]] Government parties have a comfortable majority in the Senate, yet the struggle for pasquil has lost. In fact, it was clear that Petr Fiala's government coalition resigned from the Senate for some kind of struggle. Minister of Health Válek from TOP 09 played cards on his mobile phone during speeches by senators. We could only consider this to be standard ignorance of the legislators, albeit from his own coalition, but when Senator horník directly accused the Minister that instead of listening to objections, he was playing cards on his cell phone, Minister Válek of the TOP 09 lied brazenly when he said he was communicating with the Ministry. Minister Válek, Minister of Health Válek of the TOP 09, faithful to his tradition, lied in such banality, and it burst when Senator Láska published a photograph of him and his cell phone in full play. I'll get to the lying to the government and the minister, but I have to say, in his case, it's a morbid phenomenon. But back to the law. There is nothing more than to agree with commentators who confirm that it was a schoolboy's stupidity from the government to invest such political capital in the enforcement of the necessary law. The truth is, the bill was bad after all the adjustments. Minister Válek in the Senate said: If I do not have a functioning pandemic law, I will have to come to the government on 1 March 2022 and ask for an emergency. The government says that in a situation where the quarantine is canceled, the numbers of the infected have been dropping long-term, and hospitals are not overloaded by covid patients. The five-calice government of Petr Fiala is so intoxicated by power, it's probably gone crazy and out of reality. And let's continue to quote Minister Válek, who said before the election, quote: "The emergency situation is not working. Screw tightening is the path of Bolshevik." End of his quote. Yes. So now you understand why I'm talking about totalitarian manners and why I'm talking about implementing totalitarianism. After all, your Minister Válek himself said that emergency is the way of Bolshevik! And you're suggesting it yourself, the entire government coalition is silent, and you're suggesting from March, you're threatening to bring in an emergency. It's really grim here that I'm always here, and who's watching this closely, and I know that part of the public is watching what I'm saying, so basically I'm just quoting the expression of your government officials and reminding them. And then on TV and in the media, the leaders of the government coalition attack me and they get angry and cry - that's such a weeping government, it's already got a nickname among the citizens - and they blame me for the arguments where, but I'm just quoting government officials, I'm just reminding you of what the government officials themselves said. And that's really unbelievable. I know that government officials, government MPs are nervous when I refresh people's memories, but it was up to you to say such statements and to promise such pre-election promises to people. And it's all your fault that you don't keep your election vows after that. So what happened to Secretary Válek that he turned 180 degrees in his opinions? Is it because the election is over and there's no need to lie and cheat voters anymore? Or did he lie like he did before and lie now? It is really surprising how the government and especially Minister Válek are willing and able to brazenly lie. The current legal order allows the government to take all measures if necessary without the pandemic law. Minister Válek and his Prime Minister Fiala lie as they repeat the mantra of a fine instrument. We have subtle instruments that do not interfere with human rights in legislation. paskvil, who opposes the public, the legal community and the Senate, brings nothing subtle, but takes the dictation of the Minister of Health to all possible planes of our lives. Mr Válek and others claim that the pandemic law is also needed in order to compensate private individuals for the damage. I'm sorry, I want another text here... [[He's browsing in the background.]] That's such a shameless lie that even the greatest ignorant can't swallow this bait without blinking an eye. Of course, claims for damages caused by the State result from many current laws. One of those who immediately broke the amendment to the pandemic law, your government amendment to the pandemic law, is a government expert and former candidate for the Minister of Health for Pirates, Dr. Ondřej Dostál. But after he began to speak freely of his views, the pirát broke off their cooperation with him. This is also evidence of the situation of the pirát, who are falling apart and are constantly arguing with each other. Dr. Ondřej Dostál pointed out the exact opposite before the government is trying to push in here. He drew attention to the apparent efforts of the pirát government to rob citizens. I quote him, and I quote: "I am legally lacking in compensation for lost profits for those who suffer damage from these measures, which is rightly complained by businessmen and businessmen in hospitality, culture and other areas. They are paradoxically worse off than in an emergency, because there the compensation for lost profits is guaranteed, not in this mode." Here I would like to mention how you divide society by this law and how you inspire incredible hatred and even death threats among your government policies. It is all over the Internet that he personally threatened me this morning, threatened me with death, the TOP 09 representative, suggested it by the TOP 09 representative and the head of Sokol Hospital Martin Straka, who, after the House debate on the pandemic law, proposed to add cyanide to Tomio Okamur's drink and poison him. Of course, the police will be handling this by now. So this guy, who is directly connected to the TOP 09, wants to deal with the situation in this way. That's how you fanatized - or maybe they were already fanatics, that's the question - but that's such extremism, that's so extremist - if anyone is an extremist, it's this guy, in my opinion, because threatening after a debate in the House about the pandemic law that they're supposed to add cyanide to my drink, and even the Twitter post runs on the media, I've downloaded it on my cell phone, and poison me, and that's what this guy said in that context. I wouldn't want to get my hands on such a doctor in Sokolov, because he responded when I gave my speech and I had a drink here. Today or yesterday it was, but anyway he wrote it today. And he suggested somebody put cyanide in here to poison me to kill me. These are people who are connected to the TOP 09. Anyone can enter this name on the Internet and see what side this person is connected to. That's totally awful. And I do not understand that Prime Minister Petr Fiala or other politicians will not condemn... You should publicly condemn this man's actions here. No, none of you did, so I hope one of you does. It's absolutely appalling what extremism people bring us here to connect with the TOP 09 side. I'm totally... When I read that somebody was threatening to put cyanide in my drink and kill me, it really seems absolutely beyond my reach. Absolutely beyond the edge! So this, so in this way, briefly speaking, you've divided the company here. You don't associate the company, you divide it. I don't think I've ever experienced a government here that would distribute society in the Czech Republic in this way. [[21.50 hours]] We see it here in the House when you can't act, you don't want to deal with others. We are all elected here at least hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic, but you simply do not want to act, you despise the votes of some citizens. This is also shown in the pandemic law, as well as in the media law that you are preparing, and so on, that you are dividing society hard. I understand that you have among yourselves, not politicians, but activists who hate those who have a different opinion. For example, it is the President of the House Pekarová Adamová, Mr Marek Výborný and so on. I have experience with this, you know, with these types of people because I'm a lifelong target of racist remarks. I know exactly who the racists are. They have it in them. They blink when they see someone with a different color of skin. All of a sudden, it blinks in them. I think it's a pathological disorder. Those people should be talking to somebody by now. They blink and have a problem, and that's exactly what you are, because I have experience with it from the point of view of racism, because I am a lifelong target of racist insults by some desperate people. And that's right, because when you see a different opinion than you do - and I see it exactly my whole life, because I'm going to be 50 now, and I've had experience with it my whole life, with these racist innuendoes and racism - so I'm reading these people exactly how it is. And I've also read about how it actually comes to be a racist. I'm a half-breed of two races, so, of course, I have experience with that, here about the only one of you, except my brother. And it's exactly how I see it in you, that when you can say something to Okamura or SPD, some of you are completely engulfed with hate, you get blacked out, you get a huge grudge and hate at the same time, and it manifests itself in your very behavior. Typically these two Members, which I was just talking about, and it is my long-term experience of life, that the pot and that is it. That's what I'd really say is a pathological phenomenon and it would be good if this person wanted to get rid of it, he wanted to stop being hateful and he wanted to start acting like he liked people around him and not take people on a personal level, so it would be good to actually visit a psychiatrist - I mean it in a good way - and consult his hatred of other people because a normal-minded person respects that someone else has an opinion. We can sit down at the table, we can have, figuratively speaking, a glass of wine, talk about family, privacy. I have a lot of experience with this, because I drive around all the time, if the situation allows it, I drive around all the time. By far there are not only SPD voters, and those people are great because even if they say they don't vote for SPD, the vast majority of people come to discuss it, they come to say, "I don't vote for you, but we want to ask you something." And that's a great atmosphere, it's exactly the democratic debate, and it's beautiful to meet the public. So I've had years of experience, because I've been dating people for almost 30 years because I've been moving around in the media, basically, I've been walking half my life, so I have a personal experience here. And I see when someone's hateful and has it in them, like some racist in him, the one who's really the one who's already got it in him, I see it. And they don't often realize it, they don't realize it's true. But I'm pointing it out here, because the way things escalated here after the election, and the way I started to get to know some of you in other life situations, for example, after you got into a government coalition, I'm not enough to stare at what happened to some of you. On the other hand, there are a lot of government MPs who continue to behave fine, you can talk to them perfectly, you know, from the past, and there's no personal level, and they're also pleasant associates when you talk about a lot of things, even politics when you talk about it. So that's just the way it is. But this is where this huge hate phenomenon started to develop, which I think, since we're supposed to be here together for four years or less or four years, it would be good for all of us to think about it. I know it probably doesn't fall on fertile soil, this appeal of mine, because, of course, for someone to want to deal with it, it has to have a certain human dimension. This often requires, not always, a certain personal experience. When the person doesn't have the personal experience and hasn't had any problems in life - I grew up part of my childhood in a children's home in Mašťov near Podbořan - it's hard to explain and it's hard to tell. So I'd keep going. I am talking about this in the context of the matter, because the pandemic law is precisely about human rights and freedoms. It's that you want to limit them, that you want to divide society - and you're already dividing it by law, completely unnecessary. And I think that in the Czech Republic, what we would need right now, among other things, when we went through the covido measures, whether someone agreed with them or not, we would need to bring society together right now, to pull together, to agree on some things here, to bring this hatred here and to respect each other here, even though we have different political views. Indefinitely, the government's legislation introduces the possibility of the Ministry of Health issuing restrictions, including those not directly related to the epidemic - for example, restrictions on outdoor sports, children's camps or farmers' markets, which we certainly do not need. After the great pressure of the SPD, the government limited the law until November, so that our legal and completely in accordance with the law of obstruction that we did, of course it brought success and the government knows it very well. By the way, Senator Canov called it the STAN movement that he actually said in the media - and it's interesting that government politicians don't get it here, but the senator gets it - because the SPD put the veto on the agenda here at the opening meeting a few weeks ago, so we created a government coalition of space so that, on the basis of the pressure of the SPD, the government coalition could make amendments. Otherwise, there wouldn't be a time frame if this was discussed immediately. And on the basis of our pressure, you at least eased it, because you were originally the pandemic law, the otherwise-named emergency situation, proposed for an indefinite period of time, I want to stress for an indefinite period of time! Only on the basis of SPD pressure did you put an amendment there by November. You have also proposed an extension of the number of ministers who could directly control the lives of citizens. There was not only the Minister of Health, but also the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. Everything based on the pressure of the SPD and the obstructions we did, when we explained it to you, you gained time space thanks to us - because thanks to our veto you gained time space, otherwise the space would not be at all and it would already have to be included in the meeting as you wanted - so thanks to us you modified it and thanks to us you can now, of course, breast that you somehow modified it. But everyone knows it's because of that, and Senator Canov gave it a very good name, because he understood it politically, of course, that our obstructions had a goal, because we knew there were only twenty of us, that we were here in an overwhelming minority, so we wanted to at least, politically, professionally, force you to adjust it in some way, when you want to make a hard statement in the finals. But, of course, we're going to be preparing the constitutional complaint. I'm glad you guys at least gave in to SPD pressure and got it straightened out. The proof is that the government MPs themselves then made amendments to this government paskvil during the previous hearing a few weeks before it went to the Senate, you yourself, the government MPs, made amendments to the government paskvil because the government MPs themselves admitted that it was paskvil, because they themselves put the amendments there on the basis of pressure from the SPD, and you modified it here in the House. So the SPD's opposition work has reaped success here and has reaped success under this crazy law. At least we, 20 Members, have succeeded in adjusting it, and we have really achieved the result. So it would also be good to admit it, just as Senator Canov confessed and correctly said so. So it's true, it's true, it's true. [[2.00 hours]] So the lies that Mr. Výborný is always telling here, through you, from KDU-ČSL, that the SPD is merely circumcising here and nothing - after all, our result, on the contrary, we, thanks to us, have been able to do it, you have a little touch on your conscience and you have worked on the changers, because we have succeeded in the work and it is the result of the political work of the SPD. So you don't have to thank us, of course, but everyone sees that it is. And as I'm saying, so did your senator for your government coalition. That's right, that's right, that's right, that's what we wanted. But of course our ultimate goal is to reject the pandemic law, and we are doing everything we can to explain to you here again, since you have already explained once and have already retreated in some parameters, so that if possible you can vote against that pandemic law. Of course, we'll be against it. Dostál also pointed out, Dr. Ondřej Dostál, a former candidate for the Minister of Health for pirát, who after he began speaking frankly, the pirát did not want to cooperate with him anymore, so Dostál pointed out, and I quote that "terrible is also the fact that the government is entitled to close schools, kindergartens, even a nursery" So I hope we don't see something like this again that our kids had to put up with all last year. I stress that the proposal was terrifyingly marked by a candidate for the Minister of the Government Coalition. We thank him for his civic courage, because of course, the person who tells the truth has lost his chance to be minister of this coalition. Extraordinary measures by the Ministry of Health or Regional Hygiene Stations give new power to regulate any activity carried out in the premises, the marketplace and the marketplace, including operating time. They will also cover zoological and botanical gardens, various cultural institutions, monuments or observatory. The authorities will also be allowed to regulate music, theatre and film performances, dance productions, festivities, cultural festivals and trade fairs according to the government's pandemic law, which proposes five-calice Petr Fiala. Well, it's just another name for an emergency. The requirement that anyone who has resided abroad for some time in a country which is epidemiologically relevant may be considered to provide their identification and contact details, information on the place and length of stay, the date and method of crossing the national border, the means of transport used when returning to the Czech Republic, the place of residence in the Czech Republic for a specified period of time from return and other epidemiologically significant data can be considered to be truly unheard of and frightening. It is not clear what these figures mean. I koukat the government would like to shoot chips right under people's skin and trigger velký bratr's surveillance directly. If any of you consider this violation of the right to privacy and private information, if any of you find it acceptable, then you've really got your parliaments mixed up. This is neither the parliament of North Korea, nor the Roman Senate in the days of Neron, nor the Reichstag before the fire. I understand that an official might think of such a thing, but Parliament is not here to legalize such unconstitutional insanity. No, he's here to defend the enslavement of citizens. Let's cut to the chase. The Minister, by extension, the government will be able to limit much of our lives by decree. In a way, they will be an executive and legislative body. They'll write the law and enforce it at the same time. But in democracy, the rule for the government is made up of the legislature. The separation of power from the legislature is what separates democracy from dictatorship. Yes, even in a democracy, strong drastic measures can be taken immediately in an emergency, under an emergency condition of subsequent control by the House. But there is no such situation in our Republic, and we see it all around us, which would justify declaring an emergency, and both the government of Petr Fiala and Minister Válek know that arbitrary declaration of such a condition would be swept away by the Constitutional Court. Personally, I believe that there would indeed be a threat to the government for unconstitutional insanity to prosecute and also to recover the damage. The government really wants the rights that it has under emergency conditions, but without declaring an emergency. Government pandemic law is a direct attack on the constitution and democracy. And why does the government enforce this totalitarian pandemic law? Well, it's clear that to declare an emergency, there must really be an emergency, and there's the House's control. In the long run, the coalition's announcement would not stand, even though it has a majority here, so the only way the government of Petr Fiala can gain dictatorial authority is bypassing them to where they won't be so visible and where there won't be such strong public control. Talking about more viral waves isn't gonna hold up. Yes, waves of viroso have been repeated for centuries, and often far worse than the covid. Yet our country experienced this without panic or hysteria. Let us unleash disasters, such as the Spanish flu, but believe that even the ordinary flu sometimes mutated into a form where it caused great damage. Let's remember what it looked like at times when we had a real epidemic here according to all the rules - a flu epidemic in 1996. At the beginning of December, the epidemic was most affected by southern Bohemia, where the number of patients reached up to 5,300 people per 100 000 inhabitants. The border of the epidemic is 3,000 patients per 100,000 inhabitants. The word "sick " at that time meant really sick, not positive, that is, really sick people who were disabled by a doctor and had to lie down in bed with the symptoms. The presence of the virus in the body has not been addressed, because it is completely unnecessary and, on the other hand, finding that everyone has the flu virus in the body would not help anyone. Around 11 December 1996, the flu had already fulfilled the nature of the epidemic on a national scale. In Prague, some hospitals began to forbid visits to patients. There was an epidemic of theatres. Many of them had to cancel performances because of the infection of actors and other employees. As a result, Chief Hygiene Jiří Vytlačil decided on 13 December 1996 to declare a national flu holiday, on which they should subsequently follow the proper Christmas holiday. Children from primary and secondary schools waited three weeks off. [[22.10 hours]] In the middle of December, according to hygienists, the flu reached its peak in most of the Czech Republic. At that time in Moravia and South Bohemia, about every 20 people were stoned. Compared to normal flu or virosis, patients more often experienced a serious course of illness that threatened them with life. Complications didn't avoid children either. The young front informed on 30 December 1996 about two hospitalized in intensive care at the Faculty of Children's Hospital in Brno with rare purulent pneumonia. Both children developed festering deposits in their lungs, and doctors had to quickly eliminate the bacterial infection in their bodies. Despite hundreds of thousands of really ill with temperatures and pneumonia, despite the high secondary mortality estimated at 6,000 dead, the media and politicians did not panic. The situation was driven by health professionals calmly and with a cool head. Surprisingly, the public media then also kept calm and did not frighten citizens. Despite the very high record illness, the state and society managed to maintain in almost normal course. The measures were very direct and, with the exception of vacations, they did not touch healthy people very much. Some hospitals were on the verge of being on the verge of being able to handle things in peace. Despite high infectiveness, no one thought to infect drapes or restrict the movement and work of healthy people. Doctors treated the sick without a problem, and instead of waiting for vaccines that existed among other things, people were given medications. Yes, the disease was being treated. People who were ill were considered sick, not those who had some unreliable test that showed the presence of a sequence of DNA from a virus. Most people treated at home with the help of doctors and did not burden hospitals, so they did not catch and die from secondary infections. Even that saved thousands of lives. And no one thought to abuse the situation for political and legislative changes. She wasn't hysterical. Nobody lied, so there was no need to prosecute citizens for not telling the truth. Nobody would restrict citizens for no reason, so there were no demonstrations. And no one threw away tens of billions for tests, drapes, respirators, vaccines, no one stopped the economy, so the state, countries, and citizens didn't lose hundreds of billions in order. For example, it is smiling to read reports of swine flu from 2009. To the question of how you look at wearing protective masks, then the head of the vaccine company Roman Prymula replied in this way, quoting: "On a global scale, it is nonsense for everyone to wear masks. I don't think it's necessary for us right now." That's the end of Roman Prymula's quote. From today's point of view, the paradox is how in the past even the media did not seem to feel the need to create panic in the time of swine flu, and then on iDNES.cz They wrote, and I quote: "If the swine flu also appears in the Czech Republic, the thousands of masks that people bought immediately after the start of media interest will probably come to nothing. Many experts question their effectiveness, and according to the World Health Organization, they may even increase the risk of infection in the event of mishandling. The respirator is of course better than the drape, but both types of protection are inappropriate for long-term wearing. I can't imagine running in them for, like, six months." Vlastimil Sršeň, spokesperson for former Minister of Health Daniela Filipiová, from ODS, by the way. I quote: "Nothing is self - saving, because the flu is transmitted through the mucous membranes, for example when you rub your hands through your eyes or touch your lips. To be perfectly safe, you would have to wear an antichemical suit." End of quote. I would like to tell the government, the government of Petr Fiala, this government, not to brag about the abolition of any measures or mandatory covid vaccination, because we all know that, in the event of discrimination without vaccination, the Supreme Administrative Court forced you to do so, and in the case of compulsory vaccination, you knew that there was not only strong opposition to the public, but, of course, the courts would cancel it again, because, of course, we were working on the lawsuits. You didn't voluntarily release a millimeter of the covid dictatorship. The SPD movement has put long-term pressure on us to put an end to non-violence because, of course, there is no logic for anyone who has, for example, a negative PCR test to be banned from going to a restaurant, because that infectivity is clear there, while others had that possibility. The government just succumbed to the pharmaceutical lobby, there's no other way to explain it, but I've already talked about that. As a result, under Minister Válek there are over a million vaccines in the warehouse, where there is a risk of going through exspiration, almost three-quarters of a million vaccines are now being ordered, while the interest in vaccination is minimal, on Saturday the circus of 2,000 people in the Czech Republic was inoculated. So they were bought with huge public funds of vaccine, which are essentially not used, they are not interested, and someone should be responsible for this - well, of course Minister Vlastimil Válek, who is responsible for this. And it's the TOP 09 again, by the way. [[Vice-President Mračková Vildumetz: Mr President...]] Commentator... Did someone interrupt me again? [[He's turning around.]] Yeah, sorry, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u13	I really wanted to ask if it would be possible if I could enter into your speech, and that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u14	Any votes again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u15	No, no, no. I would like to say that Senator Zdeněk Hraba has already left us and I would like to welcome Senator Jan Holásek here. [[Member of Okamura: Yes.]] At the same time, I would like to take the position of President, because at this point, I have been chairing since 22 o'clock and I have noticed that the Minister of Health is not here... [[Member Okamura: No, no.]] I believe that the Minister of Health should, as a plaintiff... [[Mr Okamura: That's right.]] ... sit at the speaker's desk next to the senator. [[- Thank you.]] So I would like to ask very much whether it would be possible to secure the participation of the Minister of Health. And I think he should have sat there from the beginning when the debate on this bill opened. Thank you very much. [[Voices off the microphone.]] I'm sure I agree that there's only one member of the government to be present at the law hearing, but every time there's a Senate return, every senator has been sitting at that speaker's desk. So I think it would be the right thing to do. Thank you. I have an announcement that the Minister will be arriving in a minute, from the First Vice-President of the ODS Club. Mr. Chairman, please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u16	Commentator Oldřich Tichý commented on the government's actions as follows: "Everything shows that the ego of individual political players and the decision of the government coalition to show the opposition and the public their power over reason and cool head. By failing to maintain and confirm the victory of the House in the Senate, the government of Petr Fiala sent out completely opposite signals. This just didn't work out." End of quote. I would like to say one more example here, up-to-date, it's today's issue where we've all read in the media - and I don't think there's anyone here who would agree - that citizens have published addresses, private addresses of government politicians, with someone coming to demonstrate. And here I listened to the reactions that the politicians were condemning. I don't agree with that either, but the person who did this is a TOP 09 MP. Here MEP TOP 09 - and here you can see what extremist party it is, TOP 09, already on the second example - before the election took a picture before my residence, put it on the Internet to turn citizens before my residence. He was MP Ondřej Kolář from TOP 09, Mayor of Prague 6. And he took a picture of him putting a SPOLU coalition tag on my private fence. With this SPOLU coalition tag, he took a picture, put it on my private fence, took photographs, and then put them on social networks to turn citizens and the public against me into my private residence. So whoever started with these manners is the TOP 09 and their MP Ondřej Kolář, mayor of the city district where I live. So it would really be a good idea for you, Members of Government, to also condemn this negotiation so that you can make peace between yourselves, because whoever it is on any side, I have never published a policy's residence, and I do not agree with this being the case here. But whoever acts in this way completely extremely is a politician and current member of the TOP 09 Ondřej Kolář. So these manners, that's how people get upset with politicians, that's exactly what the TOP 09 and their MP do. I did it, of course, but it's incredible just to say it here. And once again, it testifies to the extremism of the TOP 09, when, on the one hand, the leader of the TOP 09 threatened me today - and it is already possible in the media everywhere - and he urged people to put cyanide in my water here to kill me and poison me - that was the head of that Sokol hospital, the Straka's name, Martin Straka - and another politician, even the TOP 09 Member, Ondřej Kolář, directly taking pictures with the SPOLU tag, so I assume they're the managers of the SPOLU coalition, because I didn't hear anyone from the SOLU coalition, or the ODS, or the TOP 09, or the People's that they'd agree against it. Nobody got the wrong idea, even though it was in public space. And so now you're condemning someone to publish addresses, while your - I also disagree - but your politician started doing this, he did it first. So it's your political culture to publish politicians' residences to be bullied by the public? So you should clear up your own MP club and the government coalition to tell these extremists to abandon such inadequate behavior. And he took advantage of the SPOLU coalition's brand. Honestly, I'd like to keep the TOP 09 politician from touching my private fence. I don't understand why they're hanging something from my private fence. But those are the exact extremist manners. Imagine if someone came to your house, hung something on your property, and then posted somewhere where you live, you've got family and everything. Those are the arguments I've heard from you, but you should order your own nest. So it's really scary what this TOP 09 is doing here, and we just don't agree with it, because I think there should be this elementary human decency and elementary culture here. It simply applies: what you do not like alone, do not do to others - it is a simple proverb. I always told my son when he was a kid, and I think that's a good saying, too. What you don't like, don't do to others, and without a job, there are no pies. That's what I think is a true proverb that's historically proven. So I just wanted to add that to the current situation that I've become the target of extremism here even twice, and it's always been from someone associated with the TOP 09. But as we can see, Ondřej Kolář has soaked in this... I would never talk about this person in my life if it weren't for today's topic right now, and I've seen the hypocrisy where there's something that we certainly don't want anybody here, but that's what your politician is doing. So let's move on. Yes, the government's pandemic law, which you want to limit citizens' rights and freedoms for no reason, has not only failed, but has shown the weakness of a government coalition, which has also lost the support of its own senators, the support of the public, and even part of the media. We warned you about the fiasco, and if you push through the law, it's gonna get worse. After all, in this respect, I have also noted public warnings on the government by Jan Zahradil in Parliament's letters, MEPs of the ODS, so there is a conflict in the government coalition, the Senate will reject it, where most of the government coalition is, a major MEP and a member of the ODS Jan Zahradil also warns about it publicly, but the government is simply strongly opposed to all, so that it has the right to restrict further rights and freedoms of citizens from March, when everything is loosening up and there are no conditions for any restrictions on citizens here. You're pushing it here at the expense of the SPD laws that we want to help disabled people, elderly people, working families with children, students, businessmen and so on. Because of your enforcement of the pandemic law, all the good laws that we have laid down here are kept, because you yourselves have not submitted any such laws to the House, as we know. So that's also the problem, as I've already said - that you will not submit yourself, reject our proposals that are prepared and good, but you yourself are not suggesting any alternative in that you would help people, that's just incredible. It really seems that government MPs and ministers live in a greenhouse, and regardless of the government's party, the only thing that matters is that they are in government. Let me quote one more quote from Minister Válek of the TOP 09 - I quote: "Some radical and violent solution for the benefit of the majority has always begun to deviate from democracy. But democracy is still so important that you have to choose very carefully how and whether to limit it at all." End of quote. The quote's bumpy, but sure. When the minister said it, the journalist asked: "Do all in the government share this view of you? " Mr. Válek had to think for a while before he said reluctantly, "I guess so." Dear Government, Minister, the struggle for totalitarian pandemic law has shown that totalitarianism is exactly what you want. [[22.30 hours]] And in conclusion, a pearl that points to the core of our political dispute. I will give you one quote: "We decide by date and we want to give people as much freedom as possible," said the MP and Minister Bartoš of Pirates, Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš on Sunday. Dear colleagues, and most importantly, Minister Bartoš of the Pirates, I think you have the wrong time and regimes. First of all, you don't have to give people freedom. Their freedom is not yours, and really only a totalitarian brain can produce a sentence that he and his government will give people as much freedom as possible, evidently according to some data. This can only be considered by a person as Minister and Chairman of the Pirates Bartoš, who before the elections promises the electorate a law on an unlimited referendum and then boasts with the ČSSD how Okamur stopped his enforcement. That was last term. The truth is that the voters duly appreciated the undemocratic efforts of ČSSD and Mr Bartoš by the miserable electoral result. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the government of Petr Fiala not to take freedom from citizens. Our mission is to defend human freedom. The criterion for voting on the Government's pandemic law, which limits human rights, is not some data, nor does the reasonable data exist, but only human rights are the criteria. The government coalition experienced a fiasco when your law was rejected by your own government senators. It's bad, but when the law repeals the Constitutional Court, it's gonna get worse. Anyone can make a mistake, but insist on it and headlessly enforce it despite facts and arguments is really against common sense. I call again on the government to withdraw the law. This is your last chance. The SPD will vote against the pandemic law, promote the abolition of the pandemic law, the abolition of all measures and the return to normal life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u17	Thank you, too. At this point, I'd like to read my apologies. Mr. Josef Kott is excused here today, 16. 2., from 23 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons, further apologizing to Mrs Anna Hubáčková, Minister of the Environment from the Chamber of Deputies meeting on Wednesday 16. 2nd from 21.30 until the end of the date of the hearing. Then we have another apology, Mrs Helena Válková, today from 21.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. And the last apology - for health reasons, Mr Josef Bernard apologizes, from 19.30 to 20.30. That was all the apologies. We are therefore in the debate, and the other party who came forward with priority rights is the chair of the ANO Alena Schillerová Group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr Senator, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by quoting: "Mr. Prime Minister, this is the last warning when we say for the last time that, although you are acting in a way that is totally unacceptable to any reasonable legislative process, we are able to take it one last time, given the situation in which we find ourselves. I know they won't be all of them, I certainly understand everyone who doesn't. I get it, because I'm sick of it myself, too, Minister, I'm sick of it. It's just not possible to behave like this in the Chamber of Deputies and treat the Senate like this. It's just not polite behavior. That's not the thing we deserve." These are the words of the President of the Senate for the ODS, Mr. Miloš Vystrčil, and I say them here because everything suggests that nothing has changed about your behavior and thinking since last week. After two weeks, we meet again during the amendment to the pandemic law. Two weeks ago, I was talking about the legislative pasquila, about the possible unconstitution of the regime of legislative emergency, but also about how you divide society into strength just because you decided that you just wanted to push through this law as quickly as possible through the legislative process, regardless of others. Therefore, you repeatedly ignore any discussion not only with us, i.e. with the opposition, but also with experts and the public, and that is what I blame you almost most. By doing so, you increase the tension in society and show disdain for others other than your opinions. And then there's one other thing - an incredible contradiction between what this government says and what it does. I will not surprise anyone when I say that the YES movement will certainly not support the amendment of the pandemic law in this form, and certainly not in a legislative emergency. We have made our arguments and objections to you here in plenary, but you did not perceive them very much or you did not want to allow them to be justified in your bounty. But the senát gave us the truth. Yes, the Senate, which is mostly made up of the senators of your coalition parties. Senators and senators all repeated identical arguments from us at the House plenary. The Senate Constitutional Committee also shares our concern about the constitutionality of the whole process of adoption. I could quote Mr. Senator here for STAN Canov, but also many others. And now to conflict between what you're saying and what you're doing. Last time, the Minister said that proof of the covid passport was crucial to the fight against the epidemic. In the evening, the government abolished this obligation, and then again, on the same day that the Senate rejected the amendment to the pandemic law, and the Minister painted dramatic scenarios there, there was another major dislodgement. And to make matters worse, on the same day, Minister Válek wrote this on Twitter, by coincidence, and I quote: "I am sorry that the amendment to the pandemic law did not go through the Senate by one single vote. My colleagues and I will prepare further scenarios for possible developments. But the situation between seniors and vulnerable groups remains critical, and I will do everything I can to protect them. The amendment to the Pandemic Law is now returning to the House." Colleagues and colleagues, does that really make any sense to you? Either Mr. Fiala and his boys in the government are running the epidemic here, and the minister is just watching, or things are changing so fast that he's just trying to notice for himself. How can it say that the situation between the groups at risk is critical and at the same time approve a massive dislodgement? That doesn't make sense to you, either. And it is equally absurd to ask Members to approve, even after your Senate fiasco, an amendment to the pandemic law, which is tragically prepared - that is not just us, it is the opinion of the Senate Constitutional Committee - unconstitutionally in a regime of legislative emergency, which you yourself say you may need in the future. You can't even be serious. You have a unanimous constructive criticism of the opposition, your proposal has been dropped by your Senate, but you're still pushing the wrong law. And I would mention one more dimension. By your decision, you have once again placed the pandemic law as the first point in today's negotiations, even knowing that part of the opposition will be building it in the House - we have finally witnessed it. So you're actually blocking your own negotiations instead of including less conflicting laws. Finally, I am glad that our proposal has been accepted, we have agreed, there will be another meeting here on Friday and the budget will be discussed. He certainly needs this country more than the pandemic law. One more thing, one such sigh: we have rising inflation, an energy crisis and clearly insufficient government aid, and instead of dealing with the laws needed for people and not the legislation that we do not need, we are dividing this society and blocking the House. The only way, and I say this repeatedly, is how the government, including the Minister of Health, can keep a little face, is to interrupt this point and withdraw from trying to push this pascule through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u19	Thank you, too. Another person claiming priority rights is the chairman of the SPD MP Radim Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words, really just a few words about the pandemic law. The proposed amendment to the so-called pandemic law and the pandemic law as such are standards that severely restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic. It is also the main reason for obstruction of the SPD movement's obstruction of this law. It is not for us to delay anything in order to act ungentlmenically, as I have often heard from various political commentators, who were born yesterday and did not know that the current five-calice here has occupied EET 226 days. But I don't blame them because the Constitutional Court's finding that obstruction is a democratic means of opposition that is to serve to not accept the law. And in this case, a law that really harms a society that limits the rights that are given by the Constitution. To change the rights that are in the Constitution, you need a large part of the Chamber of Deputies and a large part of the Senate. That is why it is so difficult and difficult for all senators and Members to agree on any change to the Constitution. And we're trying to change it here by some standard law in quotation marks, and we're putting power in the hands of three ministers, standards that, in a huge, unbearable way and for no reason, strengthen the power of executive bodies at the expense of legislative power, but also judicial power. According to many renowned lawyers, this is a direct attack on the Constitution and Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic. We must not be deaf and indifferent to that. We must take this with all the seriousness of these words; indeed, protecting constitutionality is our duty as a result of the pledge of a Member. The arguments of the amendment and the pandemic law must take precedence over other technical details of the material presented. So now we don't look back on any gentlemanlyness, speed, shortness, nightly negotiations, daylight. It's just a constitution, democracy, and freedom is more than anything for us. We must not and we in the SPD will not risk later constitutional complaints, abolishment of the law or part of it, which, by the way, happened last year in the case of a complaint by a group of senators on the original wording of this law. By the way, this can also predict the real risk of the State's obligation to pay high financial compensation and damages to the persons and entities concerned. Constitutional lawyer Jan Wintr, a member of the Legislative Council of the Government and, by the way, a secretary of our House Commission for the Constitution, for example, says that the pandemic law without a time limit, which is one of the main points of his government amendment, is constitutionally bordering. Of course, I know that after the pressure it seemed to be limited until November of this year, but not long ago it was said to be valid for an indefinite period. So if anything has fought out, if anyone has thought about it, then this is the result that I think is worth it. Mr Wintr further states in an interview for the Czech Radio that the amendment contains a number of provisions which he considers constitutionally dubious enough to have a big problem voting for the amendment in its present form and, after all, it was confirmed in the Senate. As the biggest problem, he sees the provisions of the new points (n) and (u) in the proposal, where it is possible to lay down a general emergency measure of a kind of self-carantine for all people who have a positive antigen test or return from abroad from a risky area. However, the risk area is not specified there in any detail, and in his view the individuals targeted by forceful restrictions on freedom, such as the obligation to abstain from other persons, must be decided individually and not in a broad way. Professor Wintr also believes that these points of the amendment could come to the Constitutional Court in the event of a complaint against them, as this is an overstepping of the line of necessary intervention into the most fundamental human rights. Mr Wintr literally says: "As a normal part of the rule of law, the pandemic law cannot stand. " And we in the SPD identify with it. Of course, we will file a constitutional complaint for annulment of this law for several reasons. The first reason is that he was negotiating in a legislative emergency. It is precisely specified and written in which case a legislative emergency can be applied. I have already quoted here when discussing the law that, for example, in Germany, a legislative emergency can be used once in a parliamentary term. I know we have different laws, but it is precisely stipulated that it can be used, for example, in case of major economic damage or in other similar, very necessary cases. And here, in a legislative emergency, we are discussing a law that the Minister of Health himself says we need to be sure of, for example, if there were a new mutation in the autumn, a pandemic came along to make sure that we had something to fight the pandemic. But in that case, Minister, it would be enough if we discussed this not in a legislative emergency, but in a proper legislative process during the first, second and third readings. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic tells us the same thing here on a microphone that we must have some certainty, what if something were to happen in the autumn. So we think that the negotiation of this law in a legislative emergency was a mistake, and, of course, we will file a constitutional complaint against the annulment of this law. Another thing, when we are dealing with the constitutional complaints that the SPD is filing, is what happened here last night, when, in 20.10, there was a resolution, a procedural vote, which no one came to say on the microphone, but the President of the Chamber of Deputies was reading it, and there was a vote on the extension of the term. It is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure Act that this can only happen until the 19th hour, it is § 53 para. 1, and this is where it happened at 8:10 p.m. and this meeting was supposed to end at 9:00 p.m. That means there's been a twist in the Rules of Procedure Act. I am firmly convinced of this, and the point is that we need someone to tell us that it really happened, and if the Constitutional Court or someone else tells us that it happened, but that nothing is happening, I think it will be very bad news for society, for everyone. And I hope that based on that, the court will nullify what is being discussed here at this meeting. Mr. Professor Wintr does not consider the proposed time limit of the pandemic law to be a good signal, which is what I was talking about. I know that this has been corrected and that it should be valid until November of this year, because it is obvious that it must be an extraordinary instrument for an exceptional situation that is time-limited, so such a standard must have limited validity. If, however, the time limit to the validity of the law is suddenly removed and this law is to apply forever, it sends a very unfortunate signal that what we perceive as a state of emergency, and so it has been presented to us by the past and the present government so far, is to become the standard standard in the future. It is, on the one hand, a contradiction and, above all, a dangerous step beyond the limits of parliamentary democracy, free society and the rule of law. Also, none of the government's Garniture has yet communicated why the government changed this provision at its meeting at the time of the August 2023 pandemic Act, as proposed by Minister Warek, for an infinite period of time, what happened and what led the government to do, who proposed it and initiated it. Of course, I repeat again, I know it's different now. [[2.50 hours]] By the amendment of the pandemic law, the government essentially wants to usurp power, to apply the most fundamental restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as personal freedom, freedom of movement and residence, and so on, without declaring an emergency situation, against all the original promises and declarations that it will only be an instrument for short-term restrictions on the type of regulation of the number of persons at mass events and so on. Another time bomb to the foundations of the rule of law, according to the constitutional lawyers, is the request submitted by the amendment that cases and situations relating to emergency measures which in the meantime cease to be effective or will be excluded from the judicial review of exceptional restrictive measures by the Supreme Administrative Court. In these cases, according to the Government, there is no urgent interest in the rapid protection of the applicant's subjective rights. But what about the rights of the addressees of this standard, of citizens and of entrepreneurs? Doesn't that matter anymore? Not according to this government, and it confirms this not only by this amendment. Lawyers, for example, Mr Winter again, but others do not agree with this when they say that the measure was illegal - it is enormously important and should have an effect and impact on the issue of future measures. Because of the effect on current and future measures, it is important to know and know the legality of all measures in time. A complete legal outrage is also the regulation of quarantine in the form of telephone SMS messages. At least a written record must always be made of such serious facts. Moreover, according to the proposal of these reports, they may not send hygiene authorities, but some authorized persons, but who can be all of them, the amendment of the law no longer says, which, according to legal experts, generates enormous chaos, because isolation and quarantine are particularly serious restrictions on personal freedom, and whether and by whom it was imposed on citizens must not be the subject of a text message coming from an unknown number. This is a complete mockery and further degradation of the law in the administration of the five-calice, which at other times has human rights and constitutions, democracy full of mouth. In addition, from experience and life experience, we know that some people don't use mobile phones at all or often have a malfunctioning, blocked, they use cards with limited validity. It concerns seniors, executors and the like. And how will the delivery of the SMS message be shown to a specific person in the first place? Moreover, in a situation where even the current system, such as the information on quarantine and isolation, is illegal according to the Supreme Administrative Court. The amendment does not even contain sufficient guarantees of compensation for the damage to entrepreneurs who suffer from restrictive measures, which is again something completely unthinkable, beyond reality, something that has been repeated for two years in the case of these government restrictions, whether issued by Babišův or the current government. In anti-business focus, these two governments can shake hands. In the list of completely illogical, counterproductive, unlawful and unconstitutional passages of the amendment, I could continue for a long time, but for the moment I focused on the key and most serious ones from our point of view, not only in the opinion of the SPD, as I have documented, but also from the point of view of important legal authorities. Similarly, these authorities, like the SPD movement, view that, according to the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, this fundamental legal standard is to be discussed in a legislative emergency regime at the expense of time and space for a thorough debate that she no doubt requires. That's what I've been talking about. And what, other than a fundamental restriction on citizens' rights, should be discussed more thoroughly in Parliament? Even this decision speaks eloquently of the relationship of the new government coalition to citizens and to representative democracy - despite all its take-off words, it is completely disdainful and contemptuous. The amendment to the Pandemic Law and everything that my five-calice is showing confirm this quite clearly. Let's keep that in mind. For the SPD movement, once again, I ask the government, the five-police, to consider it, and to withdraw the law from the hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, now with priority rights, Mrs Mračková Mrs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, Mr Senator and honourable Members, honourable Members, the ANO movement has not supported the pandemic law, which has been discussed here for two long hours on 2 February, and we will not support the pandemic law now that it has returned from the Senate. We were very surprised that when the current government coalition had a majority in the Senate, no one expected this law to come back to us at all. There are many reasons why we cannot accept this law. In addition to factual comments, however, there is one plane that should certainly not fit, and that is the disdain with which some members of this government approach not only factual comments, but also Members and Senators. And it's not just the opposition. Senators have also mentioned this disdain and arrogance, and others have long complained about it. In addition to legal shortcomings and pointless pressure on this law to be discussed in the process of legislative emergency, there is a problem of the Minister's utter incontrovertiibility. I must say, he's very helpful, very helpful. When asked a question by the Minister of Health, he is very decent, he answers, but unfortunately, it is very difficult to believe his promises when he is able to change his opinions literally from hour to hour. On the one hand, it threatens us with a complex course of epidemics here, but on the other hand, along with the government, it has set a rate of relaxation that is incomparable to all comparable EU states, in a situation where unfortunately, more people die from covid than in comparable states. Over the last week, 56 people died on average a day, in about the same size in Austria, the number was 21. So let's compare these two numbers and see that the pandemic is still not behind us. [[23.00 hours]] The Minister of Health was here at the February 2 meeting, and he clearly said here that there is an analysis in the Ministry of Health and everywhere that clearly states that if someone is vaccinated with a third dose, there is usually a huge amount of ease in the process of the covid. And on the other hand, when we look at the numbers again, Denmark has a third dose of 62 percent of 18+ citizens, and we are at 33 percent, and instead of coming up with some sensible plan and solution and choosing a strategy, we have chosen an absolute resignation strategy. The result of personal appeals is that, unfortunately, up to 100,000 people have been vaccinated daily and today we are at 10,000. The Minister of Health is cutting people off at health care stations, we've canceled the campaign, we're shutting down the vaccination sites, we've canceled the route, we've canceled the quarantines. Pretty much everything that's been criticized by the last government that it's doing it wrong, so now we're not going to do it at all, notabene, in a situation where we have... So I have to ask at this point, if we're not going to do it and cancel everything, then why do we need the pandemic law so badly? Then why do we need him? If I repeat again, we're cutting people off at health care stations, we've canceled the campaign, we're shutting down vaccination sites, we're shutting down tracking, we're shutting down quarantine? Do we have enough legislative instruments to take any necessary measures, though what measures, if we cancel them all? The government had a year to prepare a pandemic law. I was sitting in the last Chamber of Deputies, and I remember it being the opposition when the emergency situation that came up with for so long was discussed here, we have to adopt the pandemic law - based on the opposition, it came up with the pandemic law. Yes, and I must also say that when the election ended and it was already known that the current government had a hundred eight, you must remember that at that time Prime Minister Andrej Babiš called on Mr Válek to be Minister of Health. At the same time you have created a lot of expert teams, which were invited to the Ministry of Health and to all meetings, and those outputs were then respected by the Ministry of Health. So I have to say that time has been there and that I think at this point, and we have already pointed out that the pandemic law is not well prepared, there are no analyses, there is virtually nothing to do with it, and then there are other reasons that I have been talking about in the process of relaxing. And we keep saying that such a law should go through a proper legislative process and be prepared properly. At this point, I would like to ask the Minister of Health again to consider not taking this bill back - there is no reason to go against the public, experts, senators, Members only on a whim. I believe that such behavior unfortunately shows not only the characteristics of arrogance but above all the great irresponsibleness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u23	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? Please... Yes, Prime Minister Jakub Michálek, please, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I have already declared myself during President Okamura's speech, and if we are discussing this fundamental and even somewhat - we have to say openly - a controversial issue, which the extension of the pandemic law undoubtedly is, I would like to hear also the speeches that will support the adoption of the pandemic law, because those speeches that point to various possible risks, to reservations, we have had a few dozen here. Of course, the coalition is trying to make the negotiations effective and to reach a conclusion, but there should also be arguments and answers to reservations, risks and other issues that have been raised both by opposition Members and by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, especially why we need a pandemic law, or his amendment, which is currently being discussed by the Chamber of Deputies. We want to complete the solution to the current wave of pandemic in the Czech Republic and after it has ended or stabilized the situation we want to have insurance. That has been said many times. That's what the Prime Minister said. That's what the Minister of Health said. In particular, we want to bring the whole regime into line with the Constitution of the Czech Republic under the pandemic law, and we want the rule of law to be respected. The current regime, for example, in the area of quarantine is such that it is completely outside the legal system of the Czech Republic, and the quarantines, as each of us has experienced, are delivered so that you can be called from the Regional Hygiene Station, not delivered to the data box, not delivered to the recommended letters, and logically, when it comes to tens of thousands of cases, we cannot proceed in the same way as when the documents are exchanged. Therefore, I would like to dedicate the first part of my speech to remembering what the original pandemic law is about and to open the question to my colleague, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mračková Vildumetzová. Firstly, the pandemic law is a law that is not only in the Czech Republic, but also in many foreign countries, such as Germany, from which we were inspired. It is a law that is a standard response to a non-standard situation, which is undoubtedly a pandemic of this magnitude. Here in the Chamber of Deputies, the pandemic law passed both the current coalition parties, when they were in opposition at the time, and the ANO and the ČSSD movement, which were in the government, and when the pandemic law was discussed in this Chamber, the SPD did not block it. The SPD movement did not vote for him, but at the same time made it possible without obstruction of his acceptance. And this was the law, which, as was essentially stated in several decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, has shown some problems that it only regulates this amendment. However, the pandemic law itself was beneficial, because it certainly led to the acquisition of a new instrument that helped us deal with the pandemic, leading to the end of the lockdowns and we began to cope with the diseases at the top of the delta. Thanks to this we saved freedom of movement for citizens, and not as in Slovakia, where they had to, even at a time when there were no lockdowns... so the shutters were declared and people were not allowed to leave their homes, they had to move in closed circles and so on. We had freedom of movement here in the Czech Republic and it was also because we had a pandemic law. So we need to make this clear at the beginning. The Pandemic Act, as it applies, regulates, among other things, cooperation with the military and according to the information I received from the Central Crisis Staff, the information systems that rely on it are also built in cooperation with the military. These information systems are also used to display various certificates that may be necessary for travel. So if our citizens want to travel abroad without any problems in order to recognise their certificates, we really cannot jeopardize the operation of these information systems. What the pandemic law has brought, among other things, is a clear framework for judicial and parliamentary review. I remind you, despite myths that are circulating in various chain e-mails that may be misleading, that indeed the pandemic law contains a House review. The House can shut down the pandemic emergency at any time and was announced by the Government of the Czech Republic that this will happen after the current wave has ended as soon as possible. Moreover, it remains limited in time as the law has left the Chamber of Deputies. [[23.10 hours]] I will remind you that the original pandemic law, although it has been questioned many times and many times here in the Chamber of Deputies, even in public forums, has been held in review by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court consecrated him with the exception of one short provision concerning financial compensation, which was abolished, but the principles of the pandemic law were acquitted by the Constitutional Court. Now I would get to the second part of my speech, where I would describe what the amendment that we're discussing is currently looking like. It is often happening to us, even in some of my previous speakers' performances, that they are fighting a fierce battle with the proposal that we do not have here now, they are fighting a proposal that the government has sent here. It must be said in self-critical terms that the Government's proposal had certain shortcomings, which the Government has openly admitted and which we have shared in the Chamber of Deputies because we have listened to the opposition, and because we have listened to the constitutional lawyers and colleagues, so we have corrected them. Those things that were rightfully criticized have been changed, adjusted. The original government amendment already contained a number of corrections to certain errors or inconsistencies, which were in the law, some of which emerged only as a result of the case law of the administrative courts, because let us remember that during the life of the pandemic law the caselaw shifted considerably and came to the conclusion that the Public Health Protection Act could not be applied across borders, but only very closely on the situation of contacts between groups of infected persons, which is a conclusion which is significantly different from what the Ministry of Health held even under the previous government. And in this respect, I think that was the conclusion that many experts were leaning on, and that this cannot be ruled out by the previous government. Other things that were corrected here during the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore there is no point in fighting them, because they are no longer in the proposal we are discussing, were the amount of fines, which was reduced to 20 percent - it was the issue of quarantine. As I have already recalled, today quarantines are virtually unsupported in legislation, so I think it is a perfectly logical solution that the Ministry of Health will finally adjust the situation so that all recipients of legal standards have the certainty that is needed, and that there will also be a guarantee of authenticity imposed by quarantines - when someone gets a text, there will be a link to a secure server of the Ministry of Health or other similar institutions where they can verify that the information is credible. Thanks to the amendments made by many of my colleagues, things have also been brought there that help legal persons in normal operation, which can also be associations, commercial corporations and so on, which allow distance negotiations, which is also something they can sometimes appreciate. The ban, the possibility of banning private and public events were lifted there, so there is only the possibility of restricting them, or it is a mitigation of the boundaries that the amendment to the pandemic law provides. Thanks to the amendment that I have read there, priority consideration of all proposals is maintained at the Supreme Administrative Court. I must say that the prior hearing at the Supreme Court is the best level of legal protection in the court, which is guaranteed in the entire legal order of the Czech Republic. In all other cases, you have various instance procedures. We all know how these courts can drag themselves for a long time, but I must say that here under the pandemic law and also through the deployment of Supreme Administrative Court judges the judicial review is effective, it works, the measures are interrupted regardless of political representation, unless they are properly justified, if they are inadequate and so on. And that is the principle that is preserved by the amendments approved by this Chamber. As far as possible, we have included Professor Wintr's comments, which I very much appreciate, which he again had on the original version, which Radim Fiala mentioned here, so the arguments that are there are only very limited. And I would be very surprised if Professor Wintr supported the SPD somewhere, as it basically said in my previous speaker's speech. Perhaps the crucial thing that was subject to a large number of discussions in the current proposal, namely the time that the law applies, was also significantly adjusted against the original unlimited period of validity, which was in complete conflict with the political agreement, when we are here the pandemic law on the basis of an agreement between the five coalition parties - today YES and the ČSSD, which ruled at the time - approved, so the fixed date has returned, when the law will simply expire and we should be in full control at that moment. I believe that the law will no longer be necessary at that moment. However, it would be a mistake if we were to disturb him now that the wave isn't over. The law will allow us to keep provisions, such as wearing drapes, such as tests in retirement homes. When colleagues from the SPD draw attention to the need to care for the most vulnerable groups - and I agree with them - such as tests in the retirement homes for visitors to avoid endangering our seniors and seniors, that is the thing that the pandemic law allows. Now, after I have interpreted what current form of the pandemic law we are discussing, I would briefly comment on the way in which the pandemic law or its amendment is being negotiated. It has been criticised that the conditions for legislative emergency have not been met, at least that is what the minority in the Chamber of Deputies thinks. I cannot identify with this because, in Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure, it clearly states that if there is significant damage to the health of our citizens or their property, the regime of legislative emergency can be applied. Here was also mentioned by colleague Vildumetzová, how many people we have who are hospitalized or who are dying of covid, so there is undoubtedly considerable damage to health here. At the same time, the law applies for a longer period of time and the risk of a mutation like this coming - unfortunately we cannot rule it out, it is necessary to say it openly. I don't think we should make a political issue out of it or scare it off, we should prepare for it. Similarly, the private sphere needs us to give it clear rules according to which the pandemic in the Czech Republic will be managed, and if we do not, property damage will occur and some mistrust in society will arise. Furthermore, the way in which the law was discussed here after the Senate had been returned, and the fact that President Okamura was interrupted in his speech, was called into question. It should be recalled that Mr Okamura was interrupted in his speech because, at the request of SPD colleagues, a break was announced due to the absence of government members. His speech was interrupted at that moment. At that time, the President of the Chamber of Deputies already had a written proposal from the club presidents to actually end the obstruction speech in order to cope with the situation. It was an extraordinary situation in the sense that the speech was openly obstructive. The SPD confessed to it. The Supreme Administrative Court, excuse me, clearly stated in its caselaw that obstruction must not achieve the extent that laws could not be passed in the Chamber of Deputies, and that was precisely this situation where the procedure was on the brink of the Rules of Procedure, but I still believe that it was on the brink, not on the edge of it. It was basically a very gentle way to get the situation under control and to allow both Mr Okamura and other colleagues to have an opportunity to express themselves. I think that if only one person had the opportunity to express himself, it would not be in accordance with the democratic principles of this Chamber. I would also like to point out that the suggestions in this chamber are not necessarily necessary to lecture only here on the microphone. Let us remember that each of our meetings begins with reading proposals from the Gremium of the Chamber of Deputies, not being presented here either by the President of the House of Deputies and so on. Let us remember the proposals that are given to discuss points that require a certain number of signatures, whether they are proposals for appeals and so on. So if the law does not prohibit the filing of a proposal in writing, it cannot be imported. [[23.20 hours]] The time limit laid down for the hearing shall be 21.00. There are two time limits to be mixed there. Often some colleagues criticize that the proposal was not voted until after 19 o'clock. Indeed, we are talking here about negotiations, not voting on laws, because the vote on laws then takes place under the legislative emergency regime that we have approved, and that provision will not apply at all. So there has also been no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this regard. Just for the record, I would like to say that I even think that the proposal was tabled before 19 o'clock, but it did not come to his vote because President Okamura had a continuous almost six-hour speech. Now I would get to the third part where I will focus on what the amendment to the pandemic law calls out by its opponents. I would separate these reservations into two parts. Firstly, these are reservations that are completely legitimate in the debate, in particular, I am referring to the positions that were made within the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, when a cultivated and factual debate took place. In particular, I am thinking of the positions set out in the document of the Legislative Department of the Senate Office. However, we must distinguish from these reservations a certain level of haunting and warming party soup. That's what we've seen here, unfortunately, that's what some colleagues from the SPD do in many of their speeches. This is also close to the discourse that we observe in the public space in which there are gallows and in which these people express themselves as democrats only verbally, but it has nothing to do with real democracy. The first argument is that the amendment to the pandemic law essentially brings back the restrictions that we had here. It is not so, indeed - let us remember, the pandemic law and its amendment only define the playground within which the Ministry of Health can issue its measures. As a government, we have proved by our actions that we are relaxing, relaxing as quickly as possible, but still safe. We are releasing on the basis of this, and we have also said to the public projection that probably in March, perhaps in April at the latest, the pandemic emergency will end, i.e. that the House, on a proposal from the government, will shut down the law, and the law will continue to play a role only in safeguards that can be deliberately switched on again if there is any dangerous situation for our citizens. I would like to quote a colleague of Okamura, who said: "Just a fool will not be deprived of a situation he knows will be lost in advance. " The second fundamental reservation concerns self-insulation, or a situation in which someone has a positive antigen test. There I think it is perfectly logical and moral that such a person will take a PCR test to confirm or disprove it as quickly as possible, and until then, he stays apart. The second situation is when citizens return from abroad. That's where we're talking about a case of possible introduction of dangerous mutations, whether we had the delta experience or the African mutation, or what might still come up. We're talking about someone bringing a virus mutation through planes that our system isn't ready for, and we need to take precautions to prepare for, buy time, prepare various components of the rescue system, crisis staff, and so on. In a situation where this would happen, of course, the first one to scream will be the opposition. How come the government doesn't do anything? So it is perfectly logical and right that we are also preparing for such a situation, and that even in such a situation it is possible for governments to order very quickly that persons arriving from some African states where dangerous mutations are currently spreading may be subject to this measure. But let us compare it with what happened in reality. Last holiday, we had government regulations that ordered every person returning from vacation in Greece, for example, to stay at home for five days, even if he had a negative PCR test. If we compare this with this measure, which has historically applied here on the basis of existing laws, I think the amendment to the pandemic law is much more balanced because there is a limit of 72 hours, and if a person has a negative PCR test, he does not really have to submit to the isolation, but he can return to social life. I would now devote myself to another sign mentioned in the Senate, namely the obligation to abstain separately. It was criticized that it was not clear what it meant. I point out here that the term "staying separate" is basically already contained in the applicable provisions of Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection. Of course, our entire administrative order needs to be interpreted as unity, and if concepts that are similar are used, they need to be interpreted by analogy. In this case, too, the conditions for self-insulation can be laid down, and this does not mean that a person who has a quarantine order leaves his child to die in quotation marks, that he will stop caring for him unless he is provided with an alternative care, that he will starve to death because he cannot buy. In such cases, however, emergency hygiene measures must be followed, careful and so on, and, if possible, avoided such cases and ensured by a substitute person. Of course, this will not always be possible, but there are different hierarchys of values in law, and this is how it needs to be interpreted. Another comment from the opposition and the Senate was that the explanatory memorandum does not sufficiently explain the limits of that provision and to what extent it is possible to intervene in the freedom of movement under Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum may not be completely complete in all parts, and it is therefore up to us to assess whether the conditions in which freedom of movement can be reduced under the Charter of Rights and Freedoms are met. First of all, Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR. 14 requires that the limitation be based on the law, which is, of course, fulfilled in this case. Secondly, it requires that this is a restriction that is necessary to protect the health or protection of freedoms and others. In this case, too, it is a measure relating to the protection of the health of others, and, mediatedly, of course, their further lives and their rights. Of course, since we are testing only the constitutionality of basically empowering provisions, so if an act is issued on the basis of these empowering provisions, it is necessary to test the fulfilment of these assumptions even for a specific emergency measure, which is, fortunately, achieved because - as I have already mentioned - they have set up a very good review of the measures by the Supreme Administrative Court here in the Chamber of Deputies. It is the best review we have in our legal order. And the last thing: you need to think about whether or not in accordance with Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The limits within which freedom of movement may be restricted are laid down in Article 1 and (3). Even in this case, there are clear rules that result from passing different types of test, and there is a maximum period of 72 hours to avoid disproportional restrictions on freedom of movement if there is any reason to delay. So I believe that, on the basis of these considerations, the proposed pandemic law, in particular those provisions relating to self-insulation, satisfies the conditions laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedom of Movement. [[23.30 hours]] As regards the reservation expressed by the Senate in relation to self-insulation and the various limits of penalties for breach of obligations in relation to movement with a positive antigen test with a limit of CZK 10,000 versus a return from a risky country with a limit of CZK 200,000, it is necessary to realise that these situations are, after all, slightly different, although I understand and perceive why the Senate is expressing its opinion about the disproportion of those borders. It should be noted that in the event of a return from a risky country, the number of persons to whom this applies is relatively small, and these persons may have a much greater impact on our country by bringing new mutation of the virus to our country than if it is only spread within the country. So this is a matter that, to some extent, can justify a different limit to the fines. However, it is quite wrong, in my view, to argue with colleagues from the SPD who point out that the numbers are now good. Compare this with the fact that, again, an ANO colleague said that the numbers were not good. But responsible politicians cannot follow current figures, but they must follow the forecast, i.e. the expected maximum hospital utilization, for example, or other similar criteria. I think it's wrong to reject the pandemic law and its amendment with reference to the fact that we have an emergency here. Let us remember that, in an emergency situation, many of these restrictions certainly do not have the quality of a review as it is in the pandemic law, which translates into Czech means that a normal citizen cannot defend himself against emergency measures in such a simple way as he can defend himself against measures imposed under the pandemic law. So even in this respect, the pandemic law is significantly more favourable to ordinary citizens and the protection of their rights than the emergency situation. On the contrary, I think it is necessary to give truth to those senators who lacked better certainty in compensation for damage in the pandemic law. This is a matter which is not only specific to the approved amendment, but it is a matter which concerns the whole and the original law, because in the original law the compensation is defined rather closely, or I agree with the Senate in this respect. I just have to add a statement that it is a material where no change is proposed, so for this reason I consider the whole amendment to be somewhat illogical. On the whole, I would rather like to conclude that the reservations of the Senate from my point of view cannot be confirmed, and I would like to thank, for example, President Vystrčil and other colleagues who were not afraid of the influence and pressure that was on us, which was very unpleasant, which contained the fact that someone was pounding here 24 hours a day and urged that the addresses of our families and so on were published. And now I come to the conclusion of my speech. Please, let's be optimistic. The perspective of the development of covid in this country has never been so good. Now we're in a situation where everyone had a chance to get a free shot of who they wanted. The virus also has significantly better characteristics, but it doesn't mean that everything is won, that we should abandon critical thinking. Let us not succumb to fear and let us not be fools when we have the opportunity to prepare for this situation - even if it is unlikely, but still maybe dangerous mutations - we can prepare, and if we can, we should. I think that we should not corrupt deserved optimism by those who abuse some of the most sacred concepts of our democracy, such as freedom or fundamental rights, for the sake of political benefit. Those who are haunted by the covidian totalitarianism here, when every person sees the rules opening up and loosening up, that is, of course, an absurd theater that we should end. As pirát, we refuse to declare another emergency. We remember how again and again, about five times in a row it was, extending the emergency situation as there was limited freedom of movement, as there was very little protection for citizens, and we will not really allow freedom of movement to be further restricted, so that there is another lockdown, and we will not allow information systems to be shut down that would make it impossible for us to issue certificates and therefore restrict travel for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask and recommend that we overvote the Senate today, put an end to the abuse of this subject, overcome the obstructions, and start focusing on other important issues such as the state budget, such as energy prices or resolving conflicts of interest. Thank you all for your attention and have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u25	I also thank you, Mr President, and now, with a point of fact, Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador. And before I give you my word, she apologizes to President Alena Schillerová by 12:30 without giving any reason. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I must respond to what has been said here, and I would very much like President Michálek to listen, through you. I am a doctor, and I have always taken the current situation as the opinion of lawyers and the opinion of doctors. According to that, I think, legally speaking, it's probably okay, what you said here, and that it's set up for lawyers and to make it legally clean. But sickness and health aren't just legal. And that's why I'd like to ask, is that pandemic law only made for covid? Or is it a pandemic law that is adopted for that because it was said here that if there was any other epidemic? Let us talk about the fact that laws are to be adopted in general to address a situation that can endanger our citizens, that is the first thing. That's why I'd like to respond to the fact that you're talking about a limit of 72 hours. And what if there's a mutation that's either going to have a longer or shorter incubation period? Is that why we're gonna change the law? I'm just saying this professionally right now, because it's gonna be okay after legal, because it's not gonna be a restriction, but it's gonna be medically okay? And that was what the senators, for example, took into account. And the second thing, using the pandemic law in the reality of software. The software provides the results of children from schools who were sent to the director for hygiene, but never made it to their parents. So the result was that all of us doctors answered 70 calls a day and our parents asked us what we couldn't tell them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u27	Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Michálek. Your argument that we need the pandemic law for measures in elderly homes - such as tests, masks - is that I have consulted a number of lawyers who have their practice and are much more experienced in the way they go to court, and everyone has told me that this can be dealt with by § 69 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) the Act on the Protection of Public Health. Then to your comment that the SPD movement did not approve the last pandemic law, but it didn't - the pandemic law didn't look different from this amendment, which, although it is neutered, and we still have a number of comments - although there have been modifications - it is necessary § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) n), order to abstain separately after a positive antigen test. I mean, the antigen test is taking laity, we know it has different validity. Then there is § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) u), abstain separately after returning from abroad. It's even completely without a test here, so we don't know if this guy is positive or infectious at all. § 8, regulation of isolation and quarantine by oral or by means of SMS message. From the case law as a lawyer, you know that it is clear that the essential condition for limiting freedom of movement is a proper justification, which must be up-to-date, concrete and convincing, text messages certainly do not have such parameters. Section 13, the removal of the preferential consultation of emergency measures which have ceased to be valid during the winding-up procedure. So here, if the dispute over the measure with annulment is not discussed as a priority, we will already know that it was illegal. I could definitely keep going. [[23.40 hours]] And on top of your commentary, that we're building here and what we're breaking. I will remind you when the Prime Minister in 2016 - here you have surrounded the blocking of the EET Act - even stated: "Blocating the law is the right way, we will need to build until the end of the parliamentary term, because obstruction is the only option of opposition, how..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u29	Time, Madame, thank you. And now, with a point of fact, President Marek Výborný, please have the floor, and Mr David Kasal will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Government, colleagues, colleagues, through you first to Mrs Maříková, just a little something. My colleague Michálek, like me, we haven't really been here in 2016, so we need to sort out the timetable for what you said. And I mainly wanted to respond earlier to my colleague Kasal, again through you. The law is called the Emergency Measures Act in the Covid-19 epidemic. That law was written by your minister Adam Vojtěch and his team and there is something called lex specialis, which means a law for one particular case. It's a special thing, but in this case, we've come to an absolutely extraordinary unprecedented situation, as a doctor you know, so do I. And that is why your ministry, with the support of the opposition at the time, we do not get rid of that responsibility, we have prepared lex specialis only for covid-19 disease. By the way, that is why, here in the House, we have put in the amendment the limited effectiveness - for a law that is really for one disease, there cannot be unlimited effectiveness. That was a mistake, we have also confessed to the mistake, and we have also - if I am not mistaken, with your support - because you voted in favour of the amendment, Mr Member, or at least your movement voted in favour - so we modified this lex specialis. So if you ask this question, it's very simple: it's really a law only for solving covid-19, respectively pandemic covid-19, both in these and possibly in all the following by 30. 11th of this year, so that the government has the instrument responsible in its hand so that the Minister of Health can actually fulfil his responsibilities, that is to protect the health and lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u31	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal and Mrs Maříková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u32	I took the second part to complete it because I was running out of time. Well, just the software. It's really that teachers who aren't doctors decide - and that's part of the law, and now it's not about who wrote it or who started it, which is why we're talking about it, that it should be discussed in a normal rhythm so that we can express ourselves about it, not that it's done this fast. I'm sorry, that's the practice we've met, and we as doctors haven't had a chance to bring it into this. Again, it's incomprehensible to me that the data should be sent to the hospital director's health care software that the military has produced, no information about his parents, and parents are calling a doctor who doesn't know that the patient has been tested at all, and now they're telling us to make a request for PCR, and bring it to them or send it to them by e-mail. They don't know after two years, they don't know after two years, they don't know that there's a central register, where it's only written and where it's issued, or that they have five for free. There's no awareness of this. And we actually picked up in January, January 25th, 70 calls a day in a similar manner. It was awful, and that's why I always say the law is supposed to be functional, not only is it legally right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With Mrs Karla Maříková's factual comment and Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to respond to Mr Výborný, who I hope will therefore listen to me. You may not have been here in 2016, but I assume the ODS is your coalition partner, and that criticism is coming from all of your coalition. And if, in 2016, you approved obstruction, and in the last parliamentary term, when you were in opposition, you practiced the same way, then please sweep your own threshold before criticizing the current opposition. And the fact that we do not need the pandemic law and the epidemic can be dealt with by standard laws confirmed by Mr Vlastimil Válek himself a year ago in an interview for Reflex with Čestmír Strakatý, when he said that no special law is needed, the Public Health Act is quite sufficient and thanks to him the government has enough powers to cope with the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u35	I also thank you, Madame, and now, with Mr Jiří Mašek in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u36	Madam President, my fellow ministers, Madam President, have started me, by your means, Mr Výborný. I wouldn't come here right now, and I would normally wait for a full donation, but listen here that Minister Vojtěch made a pandemic law... So let's remember what happened. It was under pressure that the opposition at the time did not repeatedly prolong our emergency at a time when hundreds of people were dying here every day when they were overcrowded with IEDs, and Mr. Výborný, by your means, of course, knows that. The only option that has passed here was the pandemic law, which you have therefore approved with some cooperation. He wasn't ideal then, we know that. Now that we were able to get rid of him on 28 February, we could celebrate because, first, the epidemiological situation has improved and we have legislation - and you also know it, Mr Výborný, through Madam President, we have the Czech Security Act, Act No. 110/2000, we have Crisis Act No. 240/2000. Both laws are constitutional laws, or they also apply restrictions that can come from the mildest restrictions to the limitations of certain rights of persons guaranteed by the Constitution. And it's only up to the government how strong the restrictions will be. Next, we have Resort Act No. 258/2004, I suspect the Public Health Act, the Resort Act, and in combination with these laws, it was all manageable. And it was the opposition that, by kicking the ankles of the government of Andrej Babiš, made this impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u37	děkovat you, Mr Member, and now, with a point of fact, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I'll talk to all my previous speakers. Of course, I have some reservations about what my colleague Kasal said about how it works with them. In Prague, the problem is reversed that parents receive information, schools and directors do not have it, but that is simply a mistake in the solution as they do in individual cities. And the law that we have on the table right now is actually supposed to make up for the mistakes that were there. There's no point at all if you're here for hours and hours talking about the mistakes that the law made. Say when what mistakes this law has, what should be corrected on it, but talk here for hours and hours about the fact that there was a law that had some mistakes that didn't work, it's a thing that, I'm afraid, is not beneficial at all, it's no use. Even in medicine, you can't do that, Mr. Kasal, that you'd just keep telling me how wrong they were before you, and you wouldn't start healing properly. That's no way to do medicine, and I don't think we can do politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u39	I also thank you, and now, with a factual remark, Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Svoboda, through the President, we have known each other for a long time. I am surprised by this rhetoric because I have responded to what my colleague Michálek said, and I think, as his speech was - I will not comment on some other matters, everyone has the right - and I have the right to comment on it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual one, Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will speak to my speaker, Mr Svoboda. I respect you very much as a doctor and as a person, but discussions are part of democracy. You, your demo block, are shielding yourself with democracy. If you want to remove it from politics, then it's not democracy anymore, it's totalitarianism!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u43	Thank you, Madame, and your case has raised another factual one. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u44	It's almost like talking to the deaf. I'm not questioning anything at all, I'm just saying that I don't hear anything that brings a solution because I only hear criticism. It is, of course, part of the necessary debate, but if the House is to work in any way, it must bring a solution in addition to the criticism, and that is what I am calling for. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have drawn up all the factual remarks and now Mr Patrik Nacher has been given priority rights, please, and Mr Julius Špičák will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-002-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice midnight. Let me take another look at this from a few angles. I'm gonna try to be systematic, and I'm gonna put back to the minister who I thought was gonna sit here as a translator -- he's sitting far away, I'm always used to the fact that there's a rapporteur and a translator sitting here -- so I'm gonna ask him from a distance. I suppose he'll answer me in some way. Look what's not just the pandemic law, but actually the atmosphere around the pandemic, what's going on, how it divides society. We can see the gallows outside, we've all defined ourselves here. I just want to remind you that the gallows have been there for the last two or three years, and I'm a little sorry that there was such chaste silence before. I've even noticed from someone a phrase like, "He who sows the wind, reaps the storm." That's right. And you have to admit, now that the gallows have appeared and have been directed towards the government, we have all clearly said that we condemn it, as well as publishing addresses. But let me remind you, those demonstrations were before the residence I remember, Andrej Babiš, Adam Vojtěch, Jan Hamáček before. That's nothing new, unfortunately. I'm afraid so. I'll also remind you, I've written down the notes here. If you recall, when there were demonstrations at any point against the previous government, against Babiš, he was urged here from the opposition to go among the demonstrators. Then a bottle flew out, he came back, and an unnamed MP came out here saying that it was a cowardice to go back to the House. So a bottle comes out of the crowd and it's cowardice to come back. I'm gonna remind you, because in that context, it's just that, in the campaign, maybe the same people were throwing eggs at us, attacking our manager, destroying our books, releasing a bouncy castle, which caused a terrible laugh, and there were kids, and it could have been dangerous. So I'm just saying, the atmosphere here is like that. I'm not saying that - but my colleague here says that you defended it on social media, but that wasn't so clear. I'm sorry. That's the atmosphere. And that's why I think the negotiation is supposed to be double sensitive, because it's just causing these passions, and it's triggering them before, not just now, that's not news. You may be more aware of that now, colleagues, and before that, perhaps you didn't notice so much because it wasn't directed against you. And I would like you to be objective about this, and we have the strength to condemn those things that go beyond the line, always, whether we are in the role of a coalition or in the role of the opposition. Now one of those optimistic windows. I was texting a friend from Canada today. I have to say, against what's going on out there, we're the island of freedom here. This needs to be made clear on the microphone here, because what is happening in Canada and what is happening in our country is absolutely not comparable - where you think about blocking payment cards to those who demonstrate where people who are not getting vaccinated are being fired from state services and then do not receive a contribution to employment or social benefits. This is unbelievable. Other employees are gathered there for a person who refused to be vaccinated, was fired and has no right to benefits. Well, I was gonna say an optimistic window so we wouldn't be so much of a masochist here again. And you know I'm always trying to put it in context. Fourth note, procedure. It all adds up to itself because of what I'm talking about here, that it's very sensitive, that it divides society, that it increases aggression, so I think the procedure must be bulletproof without any doubt. Without any doubt! And that, unfortunately, did not happen here in my opinion, because at the beginning of the meeting, I really think, and I'm not a lawyer, should have let the extra vote in accordance with § 99 para. 4 that the state of legislative emergency continues, as it literally says, and you know that at each meeting in the previous period we have voted that it continues. And then there wouldn't be any confusion as to whether he can vote after 7:00 or not. It is still unclear there, and I mentioned it in the previous point, if it is possible to submit a procedural proposal in writing under the Rules of Procedure. I didn't find it there, I don't think that's possible. But these are exactly - and there will be different legal interpretations about this - but these are exactly the things that I don't think should be here in particular because it is so sensitive, because we are in a legislative emergency because it can limit the freedom of citizens when the process starts. So the procedure for me, and that's why we tried to negotiate repeatedly yesterday: let's reboot, let's do it again, let's do it so we don't slow down the budget negotiations that went on a solid time like an extra meeting on Friday. No one can even page that someone here is trying to build on this, in relation to delaying it and dragging it through the state budget. Fifth remark. If we go back to how the pandemic law came about, that's what's important for the context. It really came about -- you remember what you were here, the new ones didn't -- as a compromise because we didn't extend the emergency situation, because here we got to a dead end. The government wanted to prolong the emergency, the opposition didn't want to. The government was minority, she didn't have votes, but the captains wanted it, too. And now it came out of it - and remember, there was a meeting here, how to do it, the senators had a completely different opinion. And then this became a pandemic law as a kind of, let's say, a delicate emergency with an annual concept, but if you look at it, there's basically no difference between a crisis and an extraordinary measure. This means that it was expected to end, and the moment the general consensus is that the situation is improving and relaxing, it makes no sense to use the same mechanism that was used here a year ago when vaccination began. You remember that. It started when the hospitals were full. And I told you the numbers here. There were 7,100 patients before, now 2,000, when we first discussed it, now 3,700, before 1,500 on an ICU, now 181 and now it's over 200. The number of positives was 14,500 last year. When we were discussing this, I wrote 57 233, and now, from yesterday, as it goes, 23,000. I feel like it's a different number today. I haven't been able to update it since it's been going on for over 30 hours. I feel like I've seen 33,000 on the list. That means even the number of positives is dropping.
